[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:13",
    "text": "but afternoon so at this point you may be may want to take your seats so we can start any watch - one minute can you also close the doors you close the doors is anybody hearing me hello thank you thank you okay so good afternoon welcome to the Colt working group we have two meetings this week the chairs try to be frugal on requesting triangle that probably was a mistake so we have a two hours Club today and a one-hour lunch on Thursday now the good thing is that nobody is coming after us in the one hour slot in Thursday so unless you care about Reds and some of us do care about right maybe we can just have an informal hallway discussion in this room after the official end of the working repeating okay woman I\u0027m running this group there are various mailing lists on this page as usual we assume people have read the draft so we will do very little introduction here and very much discussion of detail points that we need to reach closure on and we are running under somebody our principles and since it\u0027s Monday I\u0027m showing this slide for a couple of seconds so there are some policies that apply here and among those are you are being recorded number one and number two if you know about a patent claim that what we don\u0027t a technology you want to talk about here you either have to tell us or you can choose not to talk about the technology whether the second part knowing about a patent claim and not talking about that it\u0027s frowned upon but it\u0027s not something we can completely outlaw here in the procedure so if you want to read the details of the procedure there should be somewhere here but they aren\u0027t great so this is the new version of the Nova and slide and you have gotten enough pointers with your registration materials okay let\u0027s look at the agenda we had a number of last-minute moves here and even this list isn\u0027t quite fine Schmidt because we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:16",
    "text": "cannot have the coma I call crunch Podge right at the starch because some people are stuck in another meeting so we actually will after corn or the traction will start with Oscar is there a year I hope you will be within two minutes and then we go into a recess rectory and then we can either with an AmeriCorps grant as the time permits and on Thursday we have lots of small items and you can see we have started measuring the time here in minutes and starting and stopping at 1834 and things like that that\u0027s not going to work in any way but okay so there are a number of housekeeping drafts for instance that we just need to take off there are some other working room drafts that always receive short shrift it\u0027s Michael here not yet and if we miraculously do have time at the end we can talk about a congestion control draft that is being W workshop where all of us would like to be right now instead of here but yeah I\u0027m not sure that way she will make it so are there any other changes we need to apply to this heavily - already agenda this room is really useless make any sense okay okay then I have a couple of adjustments first of all we have a relationship with the NASD workgroup which is meeting on Thursday morning and I understand one draft that we will touch on today where we discussed on Thursday as well and of course there are dozens of other humilated working groups meeting this week are always sending agenda I don\u0027t want to highlight all of them to highlight psst yeah also one thing I want to mention is that we have a number of customers in other SDOs of those tenets developments organizations and we try to keep in contact with them and one of those is LCS and we actually will have a coordination call with them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:18",
    "text": "this is usually an affair for very few people we already have 12 seats in the room where we do this or if you want to join please ask the the chairs we definitely want to accommodate everybody who wants to do that but we may not be able to okay quick status on two documents that are in is reprocessing so one of those is links Jason that is actually something that started in 2012 with zero variants added 2015 units so you would think by 2018 it might be time to finally complete this so this document already left the working group and was submitted to the ASG more than a year ago but we got a lot of feedback from from the other web related groups in the IDF so we decided to do some refocusing and that refocusing is still ongoing and one reason for this is that we are finishing the work on the resource directory right now and we want to make sure that everything fits together so we hope that the people interested in this will meet in the hallways this week we already had some discussions in the t2 TRG wishy eka trundle and this weekend and we might be finally in a position to fix the remaining details so of course after the time passed and significant changes we will have to have a call on that one the other document that is in is 3 right now is cocoa and here alexei who just came in had an interesting idea assigning transport area ad is the responsible ad and that that\u0027s great because we got really good feedback now unfortunately the authors have to fight back to work on their feet very calluses sitting in the beggar or their college has already generated a per request but we have to generate a new version maybe we can do this this week and so then the normal process should continue and as i mentioned of course continuing work on congestion control may be aware that there is continuing work on the TCPS congestion control cheese it was invented in the 70s and it\u0027s congestion control in the late eighties so we don\u0027t expect current to have one final congestion control solution and indeed there is another draft out there and if we have time on Thursday we will discuss that cursor "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:22",
    "text": "Homer just to mention I I think a long time ago I also provided a general review of this document but I don\u0027t think I ever got any replies for that or have I missed it or am I talking about the wrong document Collins is smiling going in the background a little mints so I think you\u0027re talking about the right document and the point is I guess that the updates that incorporate your feedback should be already in a request that\u0027s out there and should be the basis for the next version of the document which will be 0 for so we hope we can finally it\u0027s the moment it more explicit response thank you and we\u0027ll go to Oscar hello okay I\u0027m your on cylinder I\u0027m going to give the update on Oscar so we\u0027re now in version 13 after ist review okay so we\u0027re now in version 13 and the main changes since since the last meeting is the clarifications on the further details that was based on the icy review and another post last call reviews so in particular in this new appendix D this was requested be as the overview of the security properties of the protocol we had already last meeting a first version of this appendix and now when we reworked that we made some reassessment about the protections of certain options so we actually added protection to certain options and also added motivation for what options that don\u0027t or that are not protected as well we also put some additional clarifications and simplifications of processing and all this is although not directly linked to two specific preview comments are are linked to the ISD review and the the emphasis on the security properties and through how to analyze the security of the protocol if you look at the wiki you find how we have addressed the different review comments so more in detail the observe option was previously an entirely outer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:22",
    "text": "option meaning that it\u0027s unprotected for the purpose of the proxy being able to perform operation perform operations related to observe and now we have an increased protection so it\u0027s additionally an inner option which enables the endpoints to verify each other\u0027s intent in particular registration so that that has the the effect that it simplifies the specification we don\u0027t need to consider so much different proxy operations but it takes less support for for proxy processing so so that\u0027s one change that we made another change is that we have separated out the observed processing and also the block-wise processing from the processing in general which simplifies the description i was appreciated by the implementers the second option that\u0027s been changed is the no response option the protection of the no response option which is now essentially inner it\u0027s based on the comments by by Jim we also have a new subsection on your host port processing and your a host port that\u0027s essentially those options which that\u0027s the only after only options remaining all the others are end to end and we explained in this option in this section why this option is is only outer only and we\u0027re targeting the default case where your eye host port coincides with its default values and therefore are omitted which is of course favorable both from a privacy point of view and from an overhead point of view but it\u0027s it\u0027s essentially the IP address and default port and also we need to make the changes to do this in the appendix D resulting from these changes of the options then we already got comments from Martin Thompson on HTTP processing those were included in an intermediary version we have expanded on the coop to co-op forwarding proxy section bringing in information about forwarding from other parts of of the documents of compiling that in one section we added one new parameter to the security context it\u0027s called ID context and it\u0027s also added to the key derivation and this parameter already existed as a message field that was transported in an Oscar message so we transport context information which is used by the server to decide to retrieve the security context and this this is used both in grupo score and in sixties minimal security what the change was that we now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:23",
    "text": "introduce this as parameter also in the security context and key derivation so this can be applied in a common way for those two applications and finally we updated deployment examples test vectors and references so that\u0027s some changes in this version and from from our point of view authors we our next steps is we we have still some some more review comments based on this new version from from Jim which we like to include and publish in the new version and that version we\u0027d like to interrupt test as soon as possible it\u0027s and we also would like to have an understanding if isg is happy with these changes or if there is anything else missing so that concludes the report of the state of this draft any questions or comments and then the question goes to the chairs and the AV what what what\u0027s the next steps from your point of view so I asked the usual question who has read this version of the draft to this version so the point is of course this thing is currently procedurally stuck in VI ESG waiting for erequest caller to clear his discuss and he told us when we alerted him to the presence of the thirteen of this version that the short time to the ITF would not be enough for review and I can understand that so the procedurally the next step is for Eric to review the draft after the ITF and then we know where we are but of course as a working group we also want to make sure that the changes we are doing during is reprocessing what the working group wants so it\u0027s really important that that we stay on the ball you listen so yes I we talked quickly yesterday worth authors and I had a quick look in the morning I didn\u0027t I think it\u0027s lots of good changes but you know you also moved some sections around so it\u0027s not very easy to diff and see what exactly changed because you know so it looks like a lot of stuff will delete a lot of stuff so anyway ROM I think probably the best "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:25",
    "text": "ways for me to do IT applause Cole just to emphasize that there were changes to specific sections you know HTTP description and proxies access security considerations and just you know this can all happen in parallel why Eric and I are looking at so I\u0027ll try to start it like this week so this will be two weeks but I think that that shouldn\u0027t delay the document much further than that also give the working group opportunity to double check that changes well done correctly next item is the group communication and we should have a rematch I can hear you can you hear and see me yes okay hello everyone yeah this is just a quick update on the group version of a score out of the latest updates so next slide please so it was a major though editorial revision mostly based on the discussion following the London meeting and of course to be aligned with the changes to the Minos core document that you\u0027re on mentioned and starting from the terminology we promised already in London to try to get rid of a lot of new terms that we introduced in this document like multicast listener and in fact it worked just to reduce simply client and server as in co-op or sender and recipient one more necessary from the from the actual message perspective but we still needed to keep the concept of a group member never replying with response to the request originator still using the the word server at the same time so essentially we replace the old pure listener terminology with side server then following all the ascore security context a zero mention now we\u0027re taking advantage of the ID context defined in the first place as part of the of the context in the menos core document so now we are just using it here to convey the the group identifier of your score group next slide please for the co-ceo objects are just a minor odd equation as to how the external IAD is formatted so now you have a list of algorithm so it\u0027s there and now you have to fit the identifier of the algorithm you use for for signing ugly messages then section four went through a real major rewriting essentially for a for a better alignment with the new version of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:25",
    "text": "score now we are pointing at exact phases and steps of the message producing in DOS enough score so saying excitedness that that changes that escaped that doesn\u0027t happen anymore and so on so it should be much easier to read and follow and in this respect also by the way following another thing we checked at the land of meeting the the group security context now is retrieved only based on the group identifier so in that sense the the IP address possibly multicast associated to the group is out of scope for the actual retrieval and then we add to the security consideration sections to new subsections one essentially discussing how the same proof you have no no score holds here for the sake of uniqueness of he announced under some some hypotheses that are enforced by construction especially uniqueness of group identifiers under the domain of the same group manager and the section 7.3 about the fact that possibly a possible likely collisions or group identifiers do not impair security as such at all next slide please and back to possible collisional group identifiers again we discussed about that in particular in a pending see when we discuss it possible encoding of group identifiers also based on a good discussion in the list we asked about that thank you very much for feedback so before we were kind of seeing possible collisions of group identify this a big deal while well in the security considerations we discussed the essenti / security at all is not a big deal in the first place also from the from the processing point of view so you might have some kind of a beauty worth trying to retrieve security context it might just go for a trial and error until you pick up the right one so discouraging a collision possibly through a convenient group ID sighs sure good thing to do as a good practice to discourage a collision but it\u0027s not the end of the world it happens and fire there was some minor adjustment in in the appendix discussing well the join in part and the possible retrieval of public is from the group manager according to another draft India\u0027s working group related to message form and to to perform this process but a further more extensive list of updates is in internet\u0027 appendix G ones who by the way next slide please implementation speaking we plan also to start working on a version of this for californium building on the current L of score and implementation already available otherwise we had already available two implementations one for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:27",
    "text": "other means C and wanting contiguous for 200 platform though they are aligned to an altered version of the draft essentially the one before adoption so they possibly like to be of course aligned next slide please yeah just a quick final remark there\u0027s of course a related activity to this document in India is working group describing how to join your score group using using ace for the concern of this document it\u0027s interesting just the pointed we align the the terminology as to remove a multi caster and listener from this document while keeping joint concept in the document while avoiding confusion with the ace world and this should be the last slide yes thanks a lot okay comments and questions so I have two questions that are kind of related one is we are finishing about documents right now that do something with groups and in particular the resource directory has a way to handle groups and one thing that is entirely unclear to me at this point is does this fit together in any way is is something we done and here should we fix one to work better with the other if you have an opinion on that does anybody else in this room have an opinion on that one Jim may have one I have an opinion there is a relation because there are groups but if you look in great detail of all the aspects of this daft and the resource directory I think some work maybe should be them some work maybe should be done should be done okay thank you Jim shot I do not believe that there is any overlap in what these documents are doing but I also have wondered for many times who is actually managing group it groups in the Rd because basically what you\u0027re looking at is if you have a third party managing the groups in the Rd that would basic be the same party would it be managing groups here so talking about those two things as being the same as interesting but the entity is actually doing that management right now is in ace not here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:28",
    "text": "so okay so Peter things something should be done but he used the passive voice for that I\u0027m trying to find out who would be interested in looking at this and finding out what should be done and maybe you can start doing it if you speaker from the stock or volunteer to collaborate well great so we have one person who is not only interested but actually wants to do work on this we had other people like German Michael and a few other nodding heads here so what should we take down in the minutes as the people who investor to make progress on this yeah Ken can we take down Michael and Jin on this thank you anybody else okay so that was one question the other question is more on a procedural side so it\u0027s most likely that the three documents that work together to do this will at some point be a cluster in the RFC editor queue so what is the the relative speed with which we are finishing these what is what is our projection when when we are done with it jim has no I\u0027ve got opinions on lots of things I am NOT expecting the documents in age to go anyplace before next summer the question is how much does this document actually lie on those documents can they progress without them Marco I think so I mean other than terminology I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any bar anything walking so using the home part of this in separation from what\u0027s being done in ace you require some other form of managing the keys for the right so if you know well this there\u0027s a draft in ace focusing on the actual joining of the group was so far we have starting handling possible racking in the group in the generic message draft I mean if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:30",
    "text": "you want if you\u0027re willing to do static configuration the answer is no okay yeah you always can do key management with static configuration but that\u0027s not always what you need all right I know but I mean it\u0027s it is doable today even without the the stock in a is being in existence okay um so yeah I expect that to be reasonably well baked by the time you get it in the working group so we have a way to test this and we even have ways to use it out there interviewer okay that\u0027s good to know so the next question is when is this ready for a new passcode and before I ask dead who has read a recent version of this account two three four so who would be will to send a review to the nearest Vita Jim bill okay there were some hints in the back could you send a review to the waiting list you\u0027re surrounded could I ask the people who volunteered to please have a look at Oscorp first since we\u0027re having nothing grupo score is very similar to a score is essentially I mean if you have an implementation for Oscar you\u0027re ready to do grow up Roscoe so first look at that great thank you that certainly a good idea okay so I said before I asked when this is ready for four reviewers you know when do ye authors believe is this ready for an Oscar are we done I think an interrupt test would be nice ok but again I think since if you have an Oscar up implementation you are very close to have really said that\u0027s not necessarily but possible nice to us so it\u0027s the current draft the implementation draft was such an interim or do we have to wait for one more revision to do that we could wait for the update or no score "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:30",
    "text": "this draft will not change that since it\u0027s dependent on a score I might be worth to wait for the update that should come very soon anyway there are review comments that we just got for version 13 and possibly the comments that we get in ITF last call okay so did the plan would be I mean it\u0027s summer anyway so there\u0027s nothing nothing really happening right now but the plan would be to get the oscar version to a near approved state or hopefully to an approved state and then based on that run another Interop and get a score to come towards the last one okay great wonderful so anything else we want to do on a scroll so you put the request tag in this cluster so it\u0027s not necessarily bound to that but we haven\u0027t discussed that draft it would be good if people could review it there is no dependence like reverse tag so the third and we haven\u0027t discussed that but I think would be good to get more reviews on that one yes which is also sort of security security for co-op related right that was on the agenda last time I think but there wasn\u0027t an update so we didn\u0027t put it on the agenda there is an update okay so who has read a recent version of the request check the actual requesting drug you should just call it dirt okay so this was like six hands and yeah having reviews okay so yeah do you want to save one sentence about what happened this morning at work okay so we which is then the what we think is a natural key exchange protocol or score because it\u0027s built on Seaborg gaussian co-op and ad hoc and the main update is we have a formal verification of the formal of the of the last version and we have a reduction of massive sizes updates and have a look at slides feel free to come back with comments or questions so but on the message sizes we are now doing half the message size of stls for our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:33",
    "text": "public keys and the third of the total number of met bytes for we share he\u0027s authenticated diffie-hellman so that\u0027s the type of estimate optimizations we made so it\u0027s the the current version and implementation draft that you would carry to an injury waiting for another version of that I I would ask John if he has any views on that but I we haven\u0027t had any come much comments on this version so it probably wait a little but from an optimization point of view and from a security point of view I think we are close I mean the security is not necessary for implementation but for finalists is finalizing the protocol I think we\u0027re close okay so we do one video cycle and then I go get a new version or decide it\u0027s good as it is and then declared as an implementation drought we want to use it together with the other stuff in Moscow okay thank you okay that should finish the oscar cloud but we actually 10 minutes ahead of you know slightly confused in general right now oops so the next one on the agenda is re no we cannot do Cochran yet because when one person is missing so that would be a little bit later so let\u0027s talk about resource directory and resource directory DNSSEC you don\u0027t think you wanted to talk okay I want to talk a little bit about the resource directory and about all the modifications and improvements which have been done with respect to the former two versions actually what we have been done and what we should look at in detail is that there is an appendix B and D down in the resource directory which explains in more detail how you go from reference to a target URI and how you can use that and how that distort in the RT and how you can actually do the lookup it says Oh nicely explained with examples for example it tells you where the see the 16 Authority part where that is used and how that is prefix to the relative reference it tells you about RFC 80 to 88 and 66 19 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:36",
    "text": "and its difference and how we have made rules to make sure that we do not go into conflict and it tells you also about the host relation how that fits into the whole thing I have made from one of the examples excerpt so we have here - and get call up 2001 - well-known core and there is this base already base URI which is just mentioned after the get and from the base URI you then construct you do a new sort of resolution from the relative reference which you see the team is in the brackets and that man goes to the go up so he can to the authority scheme before and then you get the team which then is the target you\u0027re right that you go produce and so the whole thing is going through in the appendix B and explains where it is loops also you see for example we have your relative anchor and also that is resolved against the base URI and you can the one listed proceeded with the same short-term memory yeah and so you see how their anchor is constructed there the other point is that the link context which is used in the relation attributes how that is also formed exactly because there were some conflicts between the two drafts about how that is done the further we have to be sourced look what and use the resource good always returns an absolute target and the absolute target is constructed from the registration base URI which actually is the authority and the scheme and the authority from which we have them post fix the relative reference please beat the appendix well we have a registration base URI and that is known that\u0027s the base year of mr. velman court I should not say strip not constructed and that one is used to than to get the absolute URI which you see this the further the base URI when you do with a third party registration it\u0027s the one which can be defined with the base is basis parameter in the in the registration so that one is stored in the resource directory the registration base URI and then the look look up the one is prefixed to the relative reference and then you get the the your eye out and otherwise you get an absolute reference returned if there was an absolute reference also the RC 60 90 + RC 80 to 88 I mentioned the anger is used as okay in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:37",
    "text": "1606 90 I can see it better thank you it\u0027s useless and busier in which the relative target is down but in 82 a TV actor the anchor is not actually used for the resolution so that\u0027s indifference and also in the 16th a result anchor the context is the target Ori is the past trip though otherwise the cover the complex is given by the base URL so what we have been trying to do is to make sure that those conflicts do not appear in the resource directory and that we have some rules to make sure that you do not cut into a problem chief yep then other improvements to the Rd text so we have this domain which was very confusing because it used elsewhere as well quite a lot and we called it sector but we maintained the Deus parameter because of backward compatibility the cones mr. Colt context which is not in context because that\u0027s something else we have changed it to base and it is actually the base URI and that is the registration from a registration base you all right yeah no we have seen some resource types they have been introduced the simple registration has been not changed we borrowed it and also the examples etc have been done more correctly the lookup we show how they resolve references I actually returned and the LT that is the lifetime is not exposed in the lookup anymore because it gives ambiguous results is at the lifetime as we specified or is it the lifetime which is still left or is the lifetime which has been confused consumed left that out and the update of the registration has been I think doot-doot pennies thanks for the reviews especially Jim very much appreciated them we still have refused probably which come in which we shoot reacts we still have some ambiguous texts left and right so we are working on that but we singing that you are really because we think that the most structural things have been solved and that it\u0027s more about clarifications and getting the terminology correct etc and we think that this typically working coconuts gold coins thank you very much Jim John I don\u0027t think I\u0027m able to do a good job of reducing working class called documents until we have manner of event first an Interop int we need at least Christian and I and somebody else need "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:38",
    "text": "to get together and see if it actually it does what it\u0027s supposed to do that\u0027s such a good idea that we actually did it yesterday and the day before no it did was interrupted but we actually did start a little bit of interesting it will continue at this week now what happened to me was I had a student write this thing and he intended something in that I didn\u0027t take seriously because seven hundred lines of code but it\u0027s the implementation so if you want to provide a resource directory implementation it\u0027s not that complicated oh I\u0027ve got one and that\u0027s a command in create so many errors so if we come up with an intro event we should be able to carry a few implementations to that so we\u0027re in this form has a resource directory implementation so Matthias is their chance that will be updated to the current version we have some four or five implementations we could carry together one thing that we forgot to put on the slides is that there is this project called F Interop that is happening put together online interrupts of IDF protocols and so maybe we can set up something with them in a September timeframe to actually do this intro so what would that be a convenient time frame for people I\u0027m seeing slow nodding okay good afternoon I\u0027m Carolyn I\u0027m presenting this draft on behalf of the other co-authors we\u0027re hoping to perhaps gather at least one more co-author from the DNS SD working group so we\u0027ll see how that goes I\u0027m gonna be Carson to the punch and ask how many people have read this proposal okay pretty small number so you might be interested to know what we\u0027re doing but first we could talk about the why simply the Corps Charter states that we should interoperate with DNS discovery in some manner and so it seems to me that at least to the level of restful api is we should be able to be able to export "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:38",
    "text": "those from the Rd into DNS and this is called DNS based service discovery the use case is I think the primary one will be in mixed environments where you have primarily HTTP clients talking to collapse through middle box which is called the cross proxy I worked on a standard several years ago which is actually the genesis of this proposal was it could be smart energy profile that is now in I Triple E standard and it\u0027s beginning to be deployed in parts in Hawaiian California for solar energy so we do anticipate that these there\u0027s any more of these environments over time the granularity of DNS SD is larger so it allows you to basically search for services services such as who provides temperature who provides light and so once you have a collection of instances that support that service you can then drill into them and find out what are you know this is one that you\u0027re interested in and it also could potentially be used for the chicken and egg problem of locating our DS in the first place so how many people in this room understand how DNS works ok many more hands so I think I can explain DNS SD to you in about two minutes or less essentially the trick is that pointer records are used as a method of discovering instances of a I\u0027ll use the term class so if you\u0027re looking for printers for example the DNS database that you are querying will have several pointer records that have pointer records named ITP for example which is the internet printing protocol you\u0027ll get back when you do the query for IP P pointer you\u0027ll get back a list of instances which will then populate view Mac users are very familiar with this when they\u0027re adding printers and so forth those instance names then correspond to a serve ns are being a text record pair the SRV record will give you the host name and the port where that service can be located the text record will give you additional information about that service in the form of key equals value pairs so if it\u0027s a color printer for example you would see information about that in the text record so the SRV record provides you with a hostname you would the hostname finally to an A or quite a record and what I should say is that the service type that you\u0027re searching for when you do the Pointer search actually is a stand-in for the protocol that you\u0027re using to communicate with that service so it\u0027s a bit like a scheme in a URI in that sense that it encodes a lot of information in a simple token so you know a priori the kinds of services that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:40",
    "text": "you\u0027re searching for and you have the protocol that will that will just you know talk to those services again I think we\u0027re used to talking about resources and rests I think if you squint you can see that anything that exposes a restful api basically fits the definition of a service and so can be exported into dns SD finally service distance names drive the type or of the form instant service type and domain so we talked about a couple of new meta values or metadata attributes that should be included if you\u0027re interested in doing this export exp is currently defined in this draft as a binary because we only anticipate right now exporting to the DNS SD to the DNS directory but potentially in the future we could be exploring resource directory information to other types of directories as well so that\u0027s TBD instance name as we define it here is thought to be global unique across all devices of this type in you know the given sector but maybe that constraint is not easily met so that\u0027s something for us to visit where you\u0027re using RT and I F which are already defined in other rfcs or proposals I\u0027ll talk about our RT in a minute but it could be that we need to generate service types from the RT so let\u0027s talk about how these mappings work so inss becomes the instance part of the dns SD service name as I said resource type may have to be converted from existing resource type into something that conforms to the format that\u0027s used by DNS SD probably just say something about that format here service types there\u0027s a registry in I Anna the guiding RFC is 1660 335 these tokens are they basically conform to the LVH syntax so they can be comprised of letters digits or hyphens and they\u0027re 15 characters in length so if you look at the RT registry right now some of those resource types exceed that length limit and currently all of them seem to have periods so we can\u0027t just do a one to one you know can\u0027t just use resource types as they\u0027re currently defined in the in the resource type registry so an agent that\u0027s going off and doing this export maybe there\u0027s some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:40",
    "text": "sort of heuristic that can be used replaced the periods with hyphens or something along those lines so that\u0027s that\u0027s some work that\u0027s you know needs to be discussed in the group the link to the restful api would be put into the text record as would be the interface description any other attributes that you feel are necessary to export so here\u0027s an example it\u0027s kind of color-coded to show how an agent might do this mapping so the first it\u0027s basically the process kicks off by querying the resource directory or you know using another method to basically find so you can see as part of the query string we\u0027re looking for this exp attribute so again that\u0027s set if you want your information to be exported we get back a sample record here from from this node FD FD 1 2 3 4 it says that it\u0027s a got a temperature sensor available at that path the instance name is set to indoor temp and so then you can see what the resulting resource records are anywhere where you see an ellipsis there that\u0027s just a stand-in for example.com dot so I just deleted that and shorten it up a little bit but you can see this mapping so in particular what began life as the resource type you know has to be sort of massage you know to fit into the resource type that is acceptable to or the service type that\u0027s acceptable to DSS D um I think one other thing comes up to and that is whether we use sort of like a hierarchy and search like a particular SDO like oh I see four subtypes or whether that\u0027s just one long flat string and as it as we discussed in the draft that can be done one of you know one of two ways so I think one advantage of doing it this way where the main type is oh I see or some other sto name is that that token could potentially be used to express more about your protocol bindings so for example if your if you\u0027ve got multiple bindings in your definitions WebSockets or other if you\u0027ve got a number of different ways to express the binding who could encode it in the in the type and then encode the actual function that you\u0027re providing in the subtype so I think that\u0027s it questions I should say to that I think this draft is this this version is pretty readable "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:41",
    "text": "from here out I\u0027m going to be spending a lot more cycles on this and we\u0027ll be tracking changes and so forth as we go on so the other thing I would ask is that you follow up any proposals or suggestions you have on the list and we\u0027ll make sure we get those incorporated in the next version and then the final thing I want to say is following on to the interrupt for the resource directory what I intend to do is to take a resource directory implementation and combine it with a DNS SD implementation to basically prove out this concept you know within the next ITF cycle so Dave Taylor so Stuart and I were having a little side conversation over here that maybe he\u0027s getting up to come into the same thing about the so the a question in the bottom part is around the area where you have you know our - temperature and so on and so my understanding from the discussion we\u0027re having is that that string right now must be ini registered in order to be usable in an hour and so what are you proposing given that RT values have a way to be vendor extensible so this is a question what you\u0027re proposing this is a proposal this is your chair sure let me jump in and clarify that as this example is proposed right now the underscore oh I see is the service type that would have to be registered with I honor the R - temperature is one of a nearly infinite list of subtypes of that so once you\u0027ve registered oh I see with Ayana you\u0027re then free to create whatever collection of subtypes you want and indeed that isn\u0027t the same length limit on the subtypes I am struck by the kind of irony that DNS SD was designed targeted to be for constrained devices which is why it was very frugal with its use of a space in the packet now we spend a lot of time debating how long identifies needed to be and came to the conclusion that 15 characters was long enough that it wasn\u0027t a scarce namespace so we won\u0027t can be fighting about allocating them but short enough to still be efficient on the wire and cool which is supposed to be targeted at the same constrained devices that DNS SD was allows arbitrary length and and very verbose resource types which makes the package much bigger than DNS SD packets I sometimes paraphrase Mark Twain and say everyone\u0027s talking constraints but no one\u0027s doing anything about it okay so thank you for the clarification Stewart so I think that the discussion is actually about the underscore oh I see dot field I think that the semantics of RT values is that a piece of code is not supposed to interpret dots as being hierarchy or something in there and so the question is if underscore oh I see must be IANA "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:42",
    "text": "registered what\u0027s the process for deriving one for there and who does it at what point in the workflow it\u0027s a really good question it could be up to the other Sto first of all to decide whether they want to go with a hierarchical scheme like this yeah so the just Mormon first the general comment we are increasingly seeing situations in where we have different INR registries that that need to be in sync on some registration activity that\u0027s going on and first day I have a quick slide on the draft about proactive registration of content format numbers for media types so that\u0027s a similar situation where we have a media type registry and we rather keep them kind of in sync and I\u0027m saying kind of because it cannot be 100% because they are different registers so there are different semantics and that may be something how we can handle this here as well now one question if we take resource types which are defined in RFC 66 90 and turn this into a hierarchical namespace might be what\u0027s the hierarchy and and as they\u0027ve mentioned it\u0027s not just a COS that defined these things so how what\u0027s our perception of that hierarchy what\u0027s our guidance for how the hierarchy should be used and I think that will require some thinking and we would then go ahead and do the editor to 260 690 whether we do this in links JSON or in a separate raft I don\u0027t know that defines how exactly we plan to work with resource types in the future and that might also for instance contain guidance that they have to fit into 78 bits and so on so we can try to address that that problem there as well but of course it\u0027s already there in registry so we cannot solve it but we can just invest so if people have ideas of how that hurich you look like this would be a good time to let the meeting is that yeah please please comment on the mailing list um you know in the worst case this agent or whatever it does that that does the you know the mechanical exporting from the Rd into DNS sd would have to have you know heuristics for every party that it encounters or groups of artis which would be you know obviously now at that point the thing starts looking like an application layer gateway which is nasty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:43",
    "text": "that\u0027s we\u0027re trying to get rid of Stewart again I just had a quick comment because Carsten brought up the really important question of hierarchy and when we were doing DNS SD we gave that a lot of thought and that was why we settled on this fairly limited hierarchy that there are types and subtypes but not an arbitrarily deep nested hierarchy and the reason we came to that conclusion is and this is my rule of thumb engineers love hierarchy and you have to push back against that instinct hierarchy is useful when the software may wish to access that hierarchy at different points so if I have an app that will show me temperature it\u0027s looking for temperature sensors if we could imagine I have an app that wants to find all devices made by Samsung regardless of what that device does it might be a washing machine it might be a printer it might be a thermostat I don\u0027t care if it\u0027s made by Samsung I want to find it I have a hard time imagining what that app would do that kettles and tumble dryers and printers have in common that I\u0027d want one app to control all of them and that\u0027s what I find when when you drill down on hierarchy and say at how many levels with these groupings make sense where I want this entire collection because they have something in common if you start to find that it\u0027s hard to find things that have that in common I\u0027m just gonna before Kirsten yes I just want to mention that we may have an additional problem I mean in the early days Co app was only bound to UDP right but now we\u0027re talking about TCP bindings WebSocket bindings all the rest of that so all that has to be expressed in the service instance name because at the end of the day you have to have a complete stack that\u0027s going to talk to the server on the other side so an additional thing we might want to think about is deviating is potentially expanding the number of labels that can be in the service part from just simply TCP and UDP to other tokens that might express more complete bindings otherwise we\u0027re going to have to you know try to fit it in to the to the service type label somehow because so that\u0027s just another thought it\u0027s a related thank you okay thank you for letting me in front again so I just want to check and see what\u0027s comment on constraint hierarchy so if you want to see the textbook example for unconstrained hierarchy going bazaar it\u0027s a sin one object identifies miss covett Kovich simmons i want to raise an issue that i try to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:43",
    "text": "discuss on the mailing list it\u0027s about the ins attribute so this this draft we now have a good definition of it which is good so far so we know what it means for how it should be used originally it was I think proposed by Zack and it was used to distinguish resources within the same end point that had the same resource type so I have some temperature resource type and I want to say that yeah this resource is for indoors and the other one is for outdoors or I had the car before tire pressure sensors this is which one is it and if this redefinition for for the instance from in SSD we lost this capability and also others started to use the ins attribute for their purposes because it wasn\u0027t so well behind before so overall I think we have to rethink a bit the discovery framework that we started to build with the link attributes because it\u0027s a bit fragile now and people started to use it there was no definition we lost a meaning so yeah and there was not much feedback on the mailing list so I don\u0027t know how to address this and how to get some folks together to design something so sorry is but I thought that the point you were making on the mailing list was originally in was considered to be unique just within the scope of a given end point mm-hmm is that what you\u0027re yeah so that was it was never yet formally defined it was more that\u0027s back in the days when we implemented it and used it and remember I think it was part of the interface draft that has a long history a lot of changes to it and so on so so that was there and people started using it because it made sense its solves a problem that is out there and now it\u0027s gone I I think it\u0027s good that we now have a clear definition and it should be used for that because yeah it makes sense but it needs a gap so it\u0027s just want to point out that you might have a problem there because kind of the overall how to use web linking and his attributes for kind of the the the 80% of Discovery cases how to do that so I know for instance other stos like fair hair they looked into the the ins attribute now it has a different meaning yeah so we should spend some time to work on that but I think in a situation where people are you know sort of using something before it\u0027s defined and so then we have to sort of you know post facto go back and change you know make the definition fit with the with the use you know the point is is that if Rd basically had a section and defined every one of these meta attributes that we anticipate using then there would be like one source but I think right now we\u0027re sort of defining these these meta data attributes as we go along or find a need for it yes the need has been there all along and I\u0027m not saying that you should change something in your draft or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:44",
    "text": "whatsoever I said this is good lock this in and behind there but now we have to go back and fill the gap in other words change existing implementations or the the reason why there was much resonance to you meeting this posting is that it\u0027s really messy to clean this up now nobody has a Gordon Village here that will solve this we have to make some hard decisions here and so so some of the liquids compatibility will be lost I do want to make a general point that we\u0027re sort of mapping from from a more freeform environment right now a more freeform namespaces as Stewart said there\u0027s like very very few limits on on any the values of these of these meta types so whereas DNS SD has very you know very specific constraints and those are spelled out in the draft so that\u0027s another thing off the grapple with is whether we want to become a little more specific you know yeah so that\u0027s that\u0027s also fine then take this and define it how this looks like in web linking that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying and also I don\u0027t think we have a problem with interoperability with people what they implement it because they didn\u0027t care and everyone implemented something different so let\u0027s throw this away because it doesn\u0027t help interoperability anyway so but we have to give them something so this would be the right way that it becomes interoperable ok thanks Stuart Church again I had a question I didn\u0027t understand the example you started off with you said some people made temperature sensors where the instance name might be inside temperature outside temperature if I query a resource directory for temperature sensors and I get a list that says bedroom kitchen outdoors that sounds like exactly what I want I mean anybody with an iPhone here you tap the air print button and you see the terminal room printer and you see the registration - printer you see a list of named entities that describe something about what their purpose is so how is indoor temperature outdoor temperature different to terminal room printer and registration - printer they both sound like instance names maybe let\u0027s go to the car example so you\u0027ll have four tire pressure sensors and they are front left front right and so on and they are defined within this this endpoint because you could also register a lot of cars and then you have the front left at the front right a lot of times also if you register your printers and you have a lot of bedroom printers for some reason you need kind of okay where to whom does this printer belong and then you get some notion what this meaning is so it\u0027s an hierarchical meaning to identify really what service you are getting he\u0027s pointing out that you might have collisions in the instance name space so how is that solved today when you query the resource directory if when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:45",
    "text": "you query the resource directory if you\u0027ve got a hundred front left and 100 front writes how does the resource directory tell you which is which so one thing is I cannot answer this completely how people implement it that one way that that does the trick is that you have it scoped within the EP and the EP has some other information like the location or the the holder of the car and in this but this information to distinguish the the oboe group of est Services is a deaf level that\u0027s where it\u0027s annotated so is that written down somewhere so some rewriting writing your client know what they have to do so it was written down like the ideas of that were written down in the early versions of the interface craft and so on and people started using that and they got a good idea how this works it\u0027s also used in in replicating itself in in some other ways and but it really points down to the problem that I want to raise that yeah we started with all these people started using it and now we have to come together and actually yeah have a look at it again and then write it down so that everyone does it in the same way so that it becomes explicit okay so it sounds to me if I\u0027m understanding this right that inclusion is if there\u0027s a standard place in the resource directory with some string to disambiguate the instances then maybe you construct to the DNS instance name from that standard string plus the ins yeah and if resource directory doesn\u0027t have a way of differentiating instances then maybe resource directory needs to add that because otherwise it\u0027s not very useful yeah Dave flavor different topic model it\u0027s related to one tea bag ocf doesn\u0027t use it but I believe that RFC 66 90 allows arbitrary you are eyes in an r/t value not just Iona si names did you look at how to map those it\u0027s in are T values you are eyes yep allowed in 66 90 and you\u0027re talking about mapping leap format so is there a way to map them that you look at that did not you should at least say something even if you say sorry you can\u0027t net those okay could you follow that up on the list because I\u0027m sure if I get some comments I\u0027d be particularly interested to know whether anybody is using your eyes today for our T\u0027s it doesn\u0027t seem like there\u0027s much in the RT registry other than what oh I see is put in there I wouldn\u0027t assume that there may be people working on it that having gone public with what they\u0027re doing yet the point of using aur idea inside Michael the hustler Samsung don\u0027t have to register so we wouldn\u0027t see it in the registry if people were doing it so there are two parts use the existing registries that allow you to constrain unique your eyes or register an RP yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:48",
    "text": "all right thank you thank you Carrie so I think it\u0027s really interesting because we are now seeing a number of things that are happening on top of co-op that seem to flow together in an interesting way so we had this semantic interoperability work over the weekend we have the resource factory where we have this DNS SD mapping and it seems this is really a good time to put in some some major fence posts on where we want this to go yeah let\u0027s have that discussion on the mailing list the next item on the agenda is probably rewinding to because we just left rewinding to talk on and before I give this is such a nice animated slide to it we\u0027re using these Chromebooks today so unfortunately you cannot see what what\u0027s on this slide but what it was trying to say is the the people who wanted to get rid of SNMP invented something called net crunch and that is based on XML as the serialization technique that is based on SSH is the secure transport and it\u0027s based on Jiang as a way to do modeling that\u0027s slightly thinner than and don\u0027t we see schema or something like that so that\u0027s netcrunch and that that\u0027s a family of documents that that work together and more recently people found out that maybe doing some of this over HTTP would be a great idea so they invented another bundle of documents that are highly related which are called rest country and what they are doing is they\u0027re using HTTP as their way of getting data from A to B they are using JSON as the serialization but of course they can continue to use XML of that and they are using the same yang models that that are being used in net con modulo a few minor things that are just different between the XML based protocol and the HTTP based protocol so that\u0027s what what happened a while ago and then we started something that we originally called call "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:49",
    "text": "conch but that new has kind of gotten lost partying all this over into the constrained space and instead of using XML or JSON using C board to represent the yang using coop and mapping the the rest conf data types to ones that that work well in coop and that\u0027s the document that\u0027s called a commit and a third thing getting rid of the the giant identifiers that come from using XML or JSON based yang and replacing them by SIDS so again we have a bundle of documents that can be used together and we have been referring to this bundle as comai and that was really confusing because there\u0027s one document that\u0027s called coma and a bundle that\u0027s called Kumar and also people didn\u0027t quite understand that this is just a continuation of the something called serious so when last month three people independently asked me why the heck are you not calling this something gone we dug out this old thing and said okay we\u0027re going to call it contrary it reduce the confusion so that\u0027s the the state of the whole way I should add that these technologies of course don\u0027t have to be used in exactly those bundles so of course you can use Yangtze Bo with rest country lengthy Bo got really great over HTTP so it\u0027s not as clear-cut as this nice marketing slide here is suggesting but for people to understand a certain kind of evolution or certain kind of pairing and mixing and matching of things it\u0027s probably a really good idea to name our part like the other two so from net convey arrest go through college and unless somebody in this room we object to this renewed naming we would like to go forward with that any comments on that it\u0027s the non technical change but there was a thumbs up from the back room yeah that was one of the voices that that asked me why were they not calling it something cool okay inner peace thanks Carsten after this introduction I think that I\u0027m going to go pretty fast over over the following slides so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:49",
    "text": "is an update of the work that we\u0027ve been doing for the past of months and I see that the table actually did not go really well here but it doesn\u0027t matter so basically this is the the status of the different drafts and okay you cannot see it but the main drafts are the core Yanks koryaks if your corset and kokum i and we have received so there these are you see the versions of the respective respective drafts and most so the first three are now I mean we need to do some minor changes because we had some input on the mailing list which we\u0027ll do in one week after the IGF and then they\u0027re ready for what\u0027s called Moscow okay so yeah and that\u0027s the cool thing so here you can see the the protocol stacks which Carsten explains so you can have them you know for your to two consults after if you wish and the net compressed convent Corinth and what we have today well we have seed registry an example city registry that you can go and you can use today that is on the website combine that space there are already some modules that are there so you can just read them if you\u0027re curious to go and see how it how it works we have existing implementations so at least two that we that we know and two more that we have talked to some people privately so in go long and in C and on the interoperability side we had already we had three hackathons so the first one was like a virtual interrupt where we we did some basic functionalities between the private private implementations the second one was the past hackathon where we were working on semantic interoperability over using combined with the resource directory and the work of things the things descriptions and on this hackathon actually we started so in the meantime we published one at one reference implementation to the F interrupt platform so we can go to this platform anyone here can go to this platform it\u0027s a pretty well documented so we can download an agent it forms like a VPN network so we can really interact you have a Co my server and Akamai quiet so we can do this today if you wish and yes so this is what we did and during this hackathon actually what we wanted to achieve was to to have to start an open-source implementation of core called client and server starting by the client and this is what we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:50",
    "text": "started so we provided some examples where you can have some basic co-op requests and you know start the intro platform connect to it and and run basic requests so that you can see how it works and what we wanted to do actually we wanted to go a little bit further down the road so Cisco they have open sourced a thing that is called a yang development kit ydk that actually allows you to generate code based on the yang module so you have the gang module and then you can generate code in Python in CEO Ringo and we wanted to so what our goal is and if this will continue on for the next IDF is to have comma oh sorry Cole conf a cork on client that uses this so basically what you do is you generate your code and then if you want Usenet code it\u0027s already there if you want to lose the rest conflicts all ready there and we are adding core comp so it works out of the box and you have all the nodes that we took or on the theater pad and there is you know a github repository for this on the release of the document so a young young seaboard document and the seed document were reviewed by two people from the from the net not and they published seven discussions and some suggestions some are quite minor and four fix them no problem there is one that\u0027s a little bit more significant and it is related to the encoding of Delta Delta encoding so to give you an example what we have today in the Peter that but is very happy and so what we have is we really went down to going having the most efficient representation that we can have on the wire and that\u0027s what is it today and it is the upper example and in this example is you know when we have when we have the requests we have already the seed that can be used as the the basis as the the point to which all delta are old elders are calculated so if here in this example we have so this a five is the encoding of 17:21 so that\u0027s as the example and so here in the response the delta states are calculated relative to this entry point so so in order to get absolute Delta you need to add two to this to this entry point and one of the one of the inputs that will be received is that that could be a little bit more confusing in some cases and it would be really nice to have it in explicitly in in the payload so that means that even though we have it here in the request we have that you know we are requesting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:50",
    "text": "this this element we can also include it once again in the payload so this way we remove any ambiguity and it was go on make it so in terms of the cost that this for this change would cost us of course when introducing text radiations but so the existing case is more compact but it would require potential little bit more like complexity on the car on the curves and it could you know leads to some ambiguities as we said the other point is you know easier to debug maybe a little bit more straightforward to process given that we\u0027ll be losing around four or five bytes just to add this listing explicitly in the payload arson yeah customer learn from the floor I\u0027d like to fix your wording a little bit there was no ambiguity in the existing proposal but we missed one requirement which is the requirement that you can rip these payloads out of their context and students do something useful with them and I think this is a pretty important requirement and it\u0027s standing against I have computed that six bytes per response most real-world applications it competes races against spending six bytes per response on something that that is redundant when you do have the context so I think that\u0027s a an important or difficult decision in this space if you look at this specific example you have on the slides the first thing you would do is compress those those ugly gates there and we could save three times as much by doing that and then you can spend six bytes on on the debugging support but I think in the IDF we often do not think enough about deployment issues and this is one place where where we got feedback from people who want to deploy this and say we are going to have problems with our tools if you do it this way so maybe we actually have to bear that cognitive dissonance of wasting six bytes and just make it simply and more simpler and more reliable to actually roll out this project so as much as this pains me to do on one end I think it\u0027s actually a pretty valid comment that King Deborah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:52",
    "text": "having worked on similar problems with other protocols I\u0027ve worked on where you you basically your uri is setting a context and you have want to take a chunk of the payload and save it off or give it to somebody else and you\u0027ve lost that what we established it was sort of copied over from some other protocols we invented a tag that you could stick in here now I know this message with signatures and stuff but we\u0027re assuming we\u0027re talking about some I\u0027m taking a snippet so signatures in the encryption out of the picture so I\u0027ve got a snippet I want to hand somewhere or store it for later retrieval or whatever we simply add a new attribute in there called self borrowing from the other world where we borrow so self was the URI of the context and so when you need it you provide the context it\u0027s not always present so on the wire it doesn\u0027t exist because it\u0027s redundant but if you ever store it or hand it to somebody you add the context that\u0027s how we solve the problem yeah this is Hank and I think that\u0027s some more similar so I I don\u0027t do slash P or payload you don\u0027t have to populate C you can just get something from P if the payload is in even and I don\u0027t know fetch then the example is that example but the same would apply to the fridge yeah because I mean so if you do a fetch on a static slash P and set up /c resource or something then in the problem of redundancy goes away no no okay then I may be missing yes so that\u0027s actually very not that\u0027s a good point and I think that we\u0027ll discuss I mean I right now I cannot really grasp the all the consequences that will come from adding this self we need to talk this over the the this one seems pretty straightforward but I would if we are able to save six bytes over the air then you know we need to generate actually what you just said I already suggested on the mailings and yes this can be everybody does everything right you can save that contacts together with with the data but we know how things actually work I mean starting from a Wireshark detector to lots of places where these things will just turn up you can curl and get some some data somewhere and lost the context and so on it\u0027s just really hard to make sure that that this transformation always happens and so it solve some of the problems but so yeah I\u0027d say I think we still have to figure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:53",
    "text": "out some details there but one other thing that might result from this change I haven\u0027t fully checked this yet is that the number of different media types we need goes down quite a bit because the media tribes mostly different in how they accept context and if we use less context from the outside then probably the media tribes converts a little bit and that may be another one that\u0027s for them yeah that\u0027s for the comma document though um to see what would be more yeah so that I think maybe two if you wish to discuss on the mailing list unless you feel pretty strong against it or unless you you know you have other ideas please go and write it to the mailing list and I think that so try to already memories so um otherwise you\u0027ll just go ahead and you know and do the change yes well when comment alone total unconstrained device may we can use the second format and in constrain device just our contrast network just send the first one and used like template see bottom plate to add the tag when we leave the network so that\u0027s good so that\u0027s the conclusion as I said the young and see bore in the six a drafter are ready to ship after the site yet and of course after we have been apply these changes and with application in rest confident core Cove we had two reviews from net net not and yet so we\u0027ll be asking for last call last call same thing is for come I and one of the things is that we would love to have one or two reviews from core where people are more knowledgeable about coop and about you know these things so one of one possible point is to start working with last call and ask for these reviews during that process and yes we have our action points for the next IDF continue the hackathon and go ahead wait above over there for the young of things yeah so for a couple of ideas I think we have said we we want to interrupt test this and we want to get more reviews we now have more reviews we have a little bit of testing and the reviews will make us make taking care "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:53",
    "text": "change so we probably have to do another round of interrupts testing but since this can be done online we don\u0027t we scheduled a big event or so for something like this so my hope would be that we should be able to work during September of all these documents after the Interop has been done that requires a little bit of pain from the vacations in August and so this is my perception of where we are this is Hank busy be coming from that comfort was session before so there is this notion of that cognitive drafts they\u0027re called they\u0027re basically they transport heart ripped out of the generic models and you can stick in to get net con or s comped and then the notion cap could be another net conf notif draft so maybe we have to align about this idea a little bit with the people again because we\u0027re talking about La Scala them this is basically done so either be really fast about it and get it done and are we just doing it at some point later I guess we have the luxury of doing this I know and just highlighting what they do to be modular regarding it with respect to transports and they have their own I don\u0027t know subgroup inside their group that is ascending to do some aspiring to do some binary stuff so yeah i think i think the chairs aware enough that con i just wanted to create awareness here also so maybe soon at least once my proposal would be to achieve right this not if draft which is real short and says you props to actually do this and it would be good to discover this Jew swoons also writing such a draft is probably a worthwhile exercise but I wouldn\u0027t want to destabilize the the will ripened documents that we have there yeah I think the very first thing I said get the done or basically yeah but good good point that we should start on there\u0027s also another document in in the Corcoran Group that we haven\u0027t talked about which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:53",
    "text": "is the equivalent of how it\u0027s called the yang library yeah so we probably want to do that one is well we may not need to do it exactly on the same timelines but we also probably should should try to align this so anyway on the microf would quickly say with an umbrella is damaging your document the network management data store architecture nimda is that changing anything in your document yeah we\u0027ll need to align with the new version in their restaurant young library ok good so there\u0027s this summation book required there so it makes sense to decouple the timelines be working yeah but again I\u0027m gonna have I did the libraries or the capability stuff is somehow semantically different from all the flavors of their stories they now have with nmda which is applied running startup intended something something a lot of those so that\u0027s another problem escape then than just a library of telling you hire can do this which is pretty much I guess a lot of simpler than all the other nmda stuff that is the flavors of data stores yes to having that point I think that this could be the place for you know for the young of things these kind of discussions then can carry on on where these two communities meet a little bit more you know to to say okay well there is kor khon and there are the other things that come from the from the net come from from from from the yang world so that you know that we were discussing in any more how can I say you know more interactive Sasha do you think he\u0027ll be next yeah I mean we had a site meeting to to IDF\u0027s ago and we had around 30 participants from net mod and from and from coal and we gathered around and we discussed about all the possibilities that come I at that time opens and you know the user yang for the Internet of Things and the idea was of course to see okay how these two communities can work they can meet so that you know we\u0027re not getting purely router oriented technology and and you know just try to fit in and then they move on their ways and you know they just ignore completely the IOT world and so that you know there is this place of discussion and once there is core count of course then yang modules will start being suddenly there will be very very very easily portable "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:55",
    "text": "and usable for IOT devices so whenever there is a young module that needs to be developed for IOT then that would be also some kind of a natural place to be to be discussed because it\u0027s people that know ya and know how to do this thing and people that understand that okay well these are not routers there are some you know let\u0027s be a little bit reasonable so there is this place to this place on which you know people can talk about and can design these models so that would be this is an idea to have this forum this this group eventually the yang of things and it seemed that it was there was all interest at that time and right now I think that we are getting to the point that\u0027s the techno that right now the protocols will be there and we can start this discussion yep so if the the you know thing grows we probably don\u0027t want to continue to do this all of this in this workgroup in it Ria\u0027s operations and management at some point in time and no longer applications so it also makes sense to do that but that\u0027s something that that has to be discussed with Eddie\u0027s and and moved into above and so on so we have about minus five seconds in in the current segment but I would like to quickly bring up one thing on Thursday we will have one customer of coop quickly present how they are trying to use coop for DDoS detection and notification of ITER\u0027s events and today maybe Hank can say a few words about how co-op might be used for ring telemetry and you have minus 42 seconds but hi Hank presenting yeah this is a short introduction about concise yang telemetry which once was before called concise yang push but the term force went away so there are no customized data stores or a customer\u0027s data subscriptions and add terminology changes their lot so I I used an term that is basically known by everyone we are creating streams here so excited basically there are two drafts in being basically in working class call now and that conch which is the data source subscription and the SUBSCRIBE notifications notifications are the thing that you get typically with the standard yang data store when something fails its control plane but people thought like well we always wanted these SNMP traps back why not make it more useful for data where you change and then they created subscribe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:56",
    "text": "notifications so you can now build your data model ask notifications and just subscribe to them that\u0027s kind of very easy because we defined them in the model and subscribe to them at the end you were interval or unchanged stuff and and that\u0027s all nice but but the real interesting thing here is to make use of all the existing yang notice that the two thousands of the image of a thousand these are defined here and the IDF and then subscribe to change of data node values of existing data store yang modules and that\u0027s the extra power here because you leverage history like to say the power of Yang and don\u0027t we have to redefine anything and from that you can create a binary telemetry using sip or other yang model SIBO basically and if you close look at the comb as design enables you to do kind of easy coop a subscriptions for example subscriptions have filters sometimes you don\u0027t want the next at least maybe yeah sometimes we have filters and you don\u0027t have the complete data module value changes but just a subtree of it and such which can be quite easily identified now because it\u0027s said so we\u0027re doing coop observe probably reliable and some bunch of ion and said and Tara you have a subscription on the sub three filter expression and and there\u0027s nothing as easy simple as that investor confident conf and that\u0027s prepared for something of this constraint note environment there\u0027s something more to it so a subscription IDs are created by this java typically so if you observe something the response of the successful is in subscription ID so and mmm back then notifications were just control plane we had the /s resource but now I think and with the consents of me sherry who is not in this room oh right sorry I am entertaining the idea of populating the s resource with keys that are basically the subscription that is created by the server and then you post a subscription RPC input with a ton of details that I\u0027m not going to explain you right now and then you get a subscription ID back and just look at s subscription ID and observe that so it\u0027s your individual created subscription on datastore no value changes enter our binary telemetry on change or periodically it\u0027s the counter you probably don\u0027t want unchanged subscriptions on Packer consoles I guess so there\u0027s a lot of flexibility here especially using force an eye patch and we are also considering eliminating the complexity of XPath expressions the subtree is easy XPath is hard and next class today\u0027s I think somehow Jason translation just natively translated "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:56",
    "text": "into C war and it\u0027s kind of I don\u0027t know a little bit too much maybe so we\u0027re exploring the idea of using a specific set of map of SIDS with conditions to substitute the very complex XPath expression that is now being able to expression see where but maybe we can do a little bit simpler so this is basic going on right now it\u0027s all called concise yang telemetry yes and 0 0 draft at the moment and we\u0027ve got a lot of support by the people who actually do create yang for no yang data store subscription sorry and yang subscribe notifications I think thank you yeah so I think it\u0027s important to see that this stuff is being used and actually used by stuff that\u0027s really moving fast and yeah as soon as it is easy to create binary telemetry streams of messages abundant messages people think how cool this is event event data now I would use it for security because I online life visit the security events and so we took that into account a little bit and saying okay this is typical operations and management but please expect to be used in the Shuji area so resilient subscription and visibility of changes the thing and we are working on that so this would be going actual solution space and also security consideration of course but highlighting that this is because new as soon as this was put out as like rule security events based on yang I want that so yeah just highlighting welcome thank you so we have about nine minutes left I think that\u0027s about the amount we need for Gary\u0027s presentation the only thing is I need to find that where is that can you start talking yeah so not nine minutes is probably just perfect so we talked about the debut RNs and and these as a reminder of course are to identify devices for various purposes whether in files or difficult fields and they supported these of the usual things MAC addresses and and and so on but also we have added couple of versions ago some more free format identifiers since this is the newest version yeah so in in person how to did like this draft largely has been done for a while but but we we wanted to see if we should actually integrate some of the other things that we\u0027ve seen the industry and one of the things that I did look into recently was the OMA lightweight machine "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:56",
    "text": "to machine specifications they actually specify a couple sub branches of this urin called OS and hopes for organization serial numbers and organization product and serial number so I folded those in because I actually felt that it would be important that like there\u0027s one place that actually says that here are the different sub branches and the soon taxes would actually be somewhat compatible and and there\u0027s some changes that I had to do because of that so we had recently introduced this org sort of organization freeform Device Identifier which used : and and these things from OMA used - so I changed that in in the org and maybe that\u0027s okay because the orc is a recent innovation of ours and not not widely done yet perhaps I I don\u0027t know you can tell me otherwise so that\u0027s that\u0027s what in the new year what is in the new version and just to highlight sort of what this results in and that the idea is that that if you need your organization needs some kind of serial numbers or whatever private numbers then then we have a branch for set of branches to do that and there\u0027s actually three levels like one is totally free format one is assuming serial numbers in an organization and one is serial number and and product type so I think it\u0027s a reasonable set of things to have for for general purpose use but there are some some questions here so so first of all this is Leslie my own opinion that we should actually try to do some alignment here and put things in the same same place it\u0027s not the intent to hijack any other work and I\u0027m gonna you know impact other people\u0027s specifications unless they they want us to but this is like my proposal that that we should actually do this and asking this community now are you guys here whether that makes sense and there are also more detailed questions so the OMA thing actually uses identify the old UI identifiers logically and we had previously used the pin numbers which was the eye on our private enterprise numbers and and there\u0027s a question like which one should we use or both and should we change this like what the guys didn\u0027t OMA a change might be painful for them or if there\u0027s no usage of their current thing yet then a change might be okay and then we do the best design and aligned design but I don\u0027t know like totally free from any complications I would like personally rather use pin numbers because I can get them easily without any cost or a co2 is actually cost real money as if I understood I to fully process correctly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:56",
    "text": "and and there\u0027s some some details that that we may not have to go into right now but I\u0027ll point to that like that well the - versus : thing and as a person sign think Ra was arguing a while ago - to me that that the person sign might be a problem from a sin ml perspective if these identifiers are used their person sign is used in in the oma spec so so that that\u0027s the proposal in front of you and this is otherwise done but there\u0027s no way the widget integrate with this sort of stuff it\u0027s the question and please comment I\u0027m here I can speak a bit on what we do in OMA and basically for the second question is a no-brainer I think Ben numbers makes more sense for free and why not do you do you have an understanding of how much uses of their current format exists today so I know that as I already relay before with you at least for us ma is the most common your annuity may I don\u0027t know all the members I mean part of Campeche knows or other Orman OMA members can pitching which is the most common either way the unification sounds reasonable to me and and also sort of a request for you guys who work there or attend their proceedings could you bring this up with them as well but okay we could do this if that makes sense to you guys and it\u0027s like acceptable but of course now there Theresa\u0027s actually since we are quite a few of us from MoMA here we could maybe during this week have a short meeting the all of us Carolyn so I\u0027m guessing that when you use the term private you\u0027re not talking about privacy I\u0027m just wondering whether or not this proposal intersects at all with this mania that\u0027s happening sort of like down the hall about not using hardware identifiers anywhere for any purpose if they can be associated with you know anything in the real world but that\u0027s a good question and it\u0027s been discussed previously and that document does have some words about that yeah I think the view is that you know people who use these kinds of things need to be aware but there are some use it\u0027s cases where it actually does make sense and and we want to enable those use cases and and documentation like if I in my own network have a file that has device identifier it\u0027s probably okay or akhirin and so maybe I\u0027ll give a bit more details on the person issue so in the central specification we recommend debut "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:56",
    "text": "our ends as one convenient way of keeping the names prefixes cuz they can easily then generate global unique names and so far the Devi or hands have been fully compatible on their character set with a relatively constrained set of send ml so that\u0027s why I\u0027m a bit concerned of adding person sign that would make only subset compatible yeah and just for clarification so the reason that is being added is that like you know if I import this you know other sub identifiers from the OMS back here unchanged then that draws in person soon box but we can make changes and I\u0027m suggesting changes on other aspects and it sort of critically depends on if if there\u0027s usage of this then we can make much changes but if there\u0027s not we should make the best design possible might include not doing that person son son Scott another good point for their or May coordinates me hi here cuz I\u0027m just kidding awake 3:15 in the morning thanks for waking me up it is more or less like I mean there are different formats which we are using for the end point name and we are converging certain things like what Amy mentioned about amia and other things which is evolving for 3gpp like external ID is another one which we try to fall back on nai which is again referenced here my suggestion is like if we can whatever ietf if we can bring it under one umbrella and generalize here with one format then the evolution would be simpler as we move forward for the next versions in me that must be easier but we could discuss this offline as well yeah thank you anything else or so yeah what\u0027s to accept I think the next step is that we have to coordinate with with Roma folks and and figure out what the best approach I mean we could certainly throw out the addition from the draft and says publish what we have I think it would be valuable if we could reach an aligned proposal and then things would be more understandable from from people\u0027s point of view going forward so we\u0027re gonna try and report back and then revised draft accordingly and hopefully that that means that it\u0027s going to be a perfect self-contained document that can be taken to work new Blasco thank you okay we are out of time for today so we have spillage of about six minutes or so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:59",
    "text": "for the meeting on Thursday which is pretty good and see you all interesting you "
  }
]