[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:12",
    "text": "good morning everybody we\u0027re gonna get started here shortly morning welcome to cozy working group session if you are not here for that thank you for taking minutes so the blue sheets should be making their way around important that this is an official ITF meeting so please note well IPR and kept right and code of conduct items probably already seen this at least once this week so far but if not please do take time to read this if you\u0027re not familiar reminder of where we are having minutes do we have anybody willing to jabber scribe anybody Thank You Russ we\u0027ll find we\u0027ll find you a backup or I will back up thank you and then also other materials are available on that link if you\u0027ve downloaded the slides already so here\u0027s our agenda we\u0027re going to start off with with well as we\u0027ve already started off with administrivia then going through updates on abyss with hash algorithms than the x.509 followed by the additional web event and suit hash signatures and then some next steps after this any-any bashing of this agenda all right Jim you\u0027re up should be set this thing up so I don\u0027t have to move around okay okay so the first document we\u0027re looking at is the structure half which is the document that we\u0027re going to try to actually get moved up to full standard the biggest open issue is some issues around counter signatures so the first item is when I was actually getting my counter signature code running I found that it was difficult to actually tell simply if something was a single counter signature or there were more than one because in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:12",
    "text": "both cases the first stated the first type tag that you looked at was a an array so you actually had to look one more level down to figure out whether there was a single version a single counter signature or two so the thing I\u0027m basically proposing is that we remove the first option in terms of what\u0027s there from the list we\u0027ve gotten one person who said yes I think that\u0027s right - and I don\u0027t believe that there\u0027s any countersignature code out there that is actually standing countersink rushers around and the wild which is going to be affected by this does anybody know anything differently does anybody have any objections to have making that change okay next item when we compute all of our authentications structures we\u0027ve got a context string into everything and right now the context string that we use for the countersignature one structure is countersignature zero and it\u0027s that way for historic reasons specifically i renamed the structure and I forgot to rename the strength little details it wasn\u0027t something that I was horribly interested in at the time was those actually kind of putting it in under protest but it actually is really needed so from an aesthetic person\u0027s perspective it makes sense to do the rename it is however in an absolute breaking change for any countersignature or zeros messages which exists out in the real world at this point in time the only implementations I know of eff countersignature zero are mine and as long as we managed to get this changed before the kontiki version no the californian version is actually published brocade once the californium version is published that\u0027s it\u0027s gonna be game over on this so if we do it we really have to do it this week do people have opinions on this custom woman\u0027s a little bit like looking at an object of art that has a change somewhere in it and I think I\u0027ll just differ in how they look at objects "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:12",
    "text": "of art with that property I think a little bit of patina increases the value and I really wouldn\u0027t want to send the signal we are making gratuitous changes here I mean it\u0027s from a technical point of view it\u0027s gratuitous it could have been fubar and would be doing well and the only thing I see is that editorially this needs to be clearly called out that this is maybe different from expected right don\u0027t think there will be a lot of people trapped by violating the principle of least surprise here because I mean it\u0027s obvious that it doesn\u0027t work if you use the wrong John Watson Erickson I think we should fix it while we can as in a reason not to fix it and I think even if people it\u0027s football might have been better because here you have some idea how it should look like so people might get it wrong they might write they made it wrong they won\u0027t be able to run against VFL it will fail but we we are creating annoying sense in people implementing is for no reason Mike Jones Microsoft when we violate the principle of least surprise it\u0027s the developers the implementers you have to build this stuff that gets surprised and may in fact do wrong things because they\u0027re making assumptions which might have been true but aren\u0027t so I agree with the previous speaker we should fix this while the fixings good Brendan Morin arm while we may only know of one implementation that exists that doesn\u0027t mean there aren\u0027t more out there and this potentially could cause breaking changes within infrastructure of people who haven\u0027t published publicly I think this is a really dangerous change and without significant input from the community I think it\u0027s quite concerning so one thing I will know one thing I will notice we did send out a notice a few weeks ago asking about this and got very little response so far so this has been on the mainland with a sigh I do like we understand the this is why we\u0027re discussing it now also no I understand that but I mean to me this is a structure revision this this would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:12",
    "text": "mean that you need to version this back last moment also you actually have to answer to ask the question at the time this document is published because there is this period of time when people still only find it 1 5 2 in the ROC set and they\u0027re just aren\u0027t aware that this is happening here and we don\u0027t have the perfect marketing machine that that pushes this out so there is there is a race condition and we don\u0027t have to have this race race condition and even if we put an errata on the document today people have a strong tendency to miss reading Aramis my advice yeah I\u0027m scared of making a change so I mean personally other than then it\u0027s a little bit of a jump for people who actually are doing the implementations I think that given that we may also immediately point to test vectors that are out there and are and are correct right now not doing it is probably the correct answer this is Russ Housley so that makes sense to me maybe the thing to do is in the new one add a small implementations considerations that says no the tags are the same here\u0027s how you deal with it okay four notes then let\u0027s so we could take we could take a home to see to get verification on which way we want to go here so with the the this is the counter signature contact string if you think that the existing counter signature 0 string is acceptable to keep with potentially with with the implementation note or the call-outs we\u0027ll do a hum for that will do a hum for changing it to counter signature one and so we\u0027ll let\u0027s start with the first one so those that think that we should leave well enough alone and add a call-out please hum now and for those that think we should change it now to to match what the actual structure is please hum now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:18",
    "text": "[Music] alright so we we\u0027ve chairs we\u0027ll make one more call on the list to get some confirmations of see if we can we can nail this down better so if we can take a note that an action I on for the chairs to verify and we need to make it really really fast okay can I just know that this was a hum between making a technical change not making it akin to change right so there should be a folder well that that\u0027s very fair we\u0027ve the the chart already says we\u0027re making make the minimal changes we we believe so the default answer is going to be if we can\u0027t find consensus and things stay the way they are okay the countersignature zero stuff was added kind of at the last minute and we\u0027re doing the cosy the original document so right now all of that stuff is sitting in an appendix so from it just pure editorial reorganization we probably should move the counter signatures there are stuff out of the appendix and put it in with the same countersignature stuff the question that I have is should we make counter signatures be a subsection of signing which is what they currently are or should they be a top-level section of the of their own equivalent to doing signing and encryption and acting because it\u0027s kind of a the zone thing kind of not is and it\u0027s basically for people who read the document are they going to find it easier to find things that way than the other way this is Russell you can\u0027t counter sign if you didn\u0027t first sign yes you can you can counter sign an encrypted message what does that mean the SEC same thing No that doesn\u0027t make sense to me I think if you organize it so that counter signatures are even if syntactically what you said is true are part of confirming someone else\u0027s signature then people will use it in a in a way that doesn\u0027t surprise receivers okay the group a scored document which is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:21",
    "text": "the core group is doing counter signatures on encrypted messages to mean who actually is the person who sent the message because everybody\u0027s sharing a group key you need to use want to know who in the group did it and what we\u0027re doing to do that is we\u0027re signing the out signed on the outside rather than signing on the inside so right now we\u0027re already violating the RUS thinks this is not a bright idea I said it\u0027s really principled but the actual evidence doesn\u0027t have to be part of the data structure I mean if I\u0027m counter signing something because of evidence that that I\u0027m not going to add to the data structure that\u0027s a very valid thing I have trouble understanding why this one would not be valid so the description of Mac encrypt sign moving from the inside out we\u0027re actually doing the encrypted inside yeah encrypting with a group key and then signing so that you would be no different if you used a full signature set of a counter signature you\u0027d get the same property Franchesca panel mini personal opinion I\u0027d like to have it its own separate section rather than under signature of course you\u0027re gonna reference the signature section for oh yeah I think yeah when you\u0027re looking for that it seems or to find I don\u0027t know okay I think I know what I\u0027m doing there right yeah I think we\u0027ve not heard anybody say no please leave it as an appendix definitely so I think I think we could take your discretion at what they at what it what they at it is and then when we were going through going through reviews then see you know we\u0027ll address it then but at this point then make the I think we can trust Jim to make the changes that better relevant last item on this slide we have gotten "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:24",
    "text": "seaboard tags assigned for encrypting crip zero Mac Mac zero sign sign sign one we didn\u0027t do one for counter signatures because I didn\u0027t think about it and I\u0027m not too sure that it makes sense I\u0027m basically bringing it up at this point just purely as a completeness issue so I don\u0027t know of any situation where one would have a counter signature floating around on its own a detached countersignature such that it would actually need to be tagged as a counter signature [Laughter] [Laughter] okay I will take that as if we don\u0027t deal with anything with that particular with getting the tag if we really need to take if someone comes up with something interesting we can get it later I guess moment I\u0027m very much against proof by leg of imagination so I think completeness just cause for doing this it doesn\u0027t cost very much I mean it costs one sea boat egg depending on how long you make it that cost can be very low and it makes it available for when it\u0027s needed and you then you don\u0027t need to or suddenly start doing complicated things it definitely doesn\u0027t need to be a one bite egg okay does anyone else have an opinion which way can you go well so the so this was discussed at the virtual interim briefly with a will ask for it when we need it and now we\u0027ve gotten at least one opinion of we should just ask for it now and so nobody else has has anything I\u0027d like to see on this one I suppose we can run a home to see whether we should at whether we should register for one now so if you think we should register for a countersignature seaboard tag with this document at this point please hum now and if you think we should not register a tag at this point please hum alright so I think what we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:33",
    "text": "hearing is we we leave well enough alone for now oh you said for slightly for for registering yeah okay so okay we will register for one then we\u0027ll add that to the document do you think it needs and really I don\u0027t think it needs an early registration well go ahead and put it in a document and people can argue about it once it\u0027s there things of things which basically I don\u0027t necessarily know what we\u0027re doing with or just to basically I need input I rewrote the ionic considerations to basically only have the things that I am is supposed to do when this document shows up rather than having all of the old registrations in the Ino sections to make it easier for I ana and also because I\u0027ve been getting pushback on some other documents I\u0027ve written from the iesg about why does this section say that you\u0027re making these registrations when they have already been done so it makes if tri rather than trying to say these are historic registrations and these are current registrations I\u0027m just deleted everything that was historic and just keeping what\u0027s current we also the virtual talked briefly about whether or not we needed to update the instructions for the designated experts at the that meet at that meeting I was tasked with doing a poll of the current set of designated experts to find out what their opinions were and everybody who replied to me which was I\u0027m not sure it was all of them but it was almost all of them basically said we don\u0027t have enough experience with things going wrong yet to think that we need to update them which i think is a perfectly fair statement and if if we need to change them later that\u0027s that\u0027s still relatively easy to do currently the document has a down ref juice to the c4 document on the other hand the Seaboard document in theory is going to get out of the Seaboard working group at some point in the or hopefully not too long distant future at which case we won\u0027t have the damn raft but if we do end up base racing out before they do we either need to justify the down roof or we\u0027re gonna sit in the RSC other to keep waiting for it to show up and that\u0027s just I\u0027m highlighting that as something that may be an issue because in talking to the chairs we\u0027re looking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:36",
    "text": "at saying we want to try for a working group last call somewhere around the Montreal time frame so that we can get this to the isg and hopefully done before I start making wine in September I now actually have a little bit more control over that than I used to since I\u0027m now one of the co-chairs of that working group I was about to ask the co-chairs have any thoughts on this they\u0027d like to share [Laughter] Francesca bambini so the milestone was October 2018 for for that document just for your information we all know milestones are suggestions yeah but but in reality how do you feel like the document yeah I think we are close yeah I think it I think we should make it probably by Montreal I hope so one of the things that is part of the issue of which document that we reference is we do discuss some canonical encoding issues um in our document and we currently right now refer to 70 49 in terms of defining how some of those canonicalization things work the new seaboard document now has a couple of different things in it which say different things one of the words which I believe has completely disappeared at this point is the word phenomenal ization but the rules that we use can refer to either of the two serialization recommend the serialization things in the document so I think we can update this without a problem is just a question of race conditions right so the the syllabus wording does not use the word canonicalization of course it points back through 70 49 because there is a technical difference between the recommendation and 70 49 the recommendation that is in the right now in either case it\u0027s a recommendation so you need to specify even if you just say do it like the recommendation says so yeah I think we are fine and just as one of the things for the taking your checklist let\u0027s try to make sure that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:37",
    "text": "are not creating any difference so your rules are a proper subset of the recommendations in my roles are definitely proper subset because the only rules I with the only real rule that I\u0027m with that we use is minimal and coding yes Oh Lawrence Thunder lead the Seaboard canonicalization and deterministic encoding has always been a bit weird to me my preference would be to just take the canonicalization needed for cozy into the cozies back and just drop the reference just seems like that would be cleaner to me is the the canonicalization needed for cosy is pretty small and specific where the the general rule seemed no more general and and it seems like it might be cleaner to do that I\u0027m gonna have to go back and actually reread what\u0027s there I believe the only thing we point back to is we point back to to say that\u0027s that defines how you do minimal and floating lights because we don\u0027t actually have save we don\u0027t have a method for saying that in our document yeah so the editorial intent is to improve on the section that that defines this minimal encoding it\u0027s no longer a part of the prefer of the deterministic encoding it\u0027s called preferred encoding now and the the deterministic encoding is preferred encoding plus map key sorting but in any case I think the the what the application the Seaboard application protocol cosy does it\u0027s nice if you follow the recommendations of Siva Bastille but see what this really doesn\u0027t have a busyness in making you any tell you how to do it that that\u0027s your decision and on the other hand the application doesn\u0027t have any business telling the the civilization protocol what what the recommendation for other application protocol should and and the other thing too is is when we point back in the Seaboard document we can point back into the I mean the bitch document has kept the 70 49 method in the document and we can still just refer to that method without having to if I mean in terms of dad tells you how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:39",
    "text": "to do minimum cocaine yes but that would be confusing but because it would send the message that you have to have the old 70 the free world 70 49 canonicalization to do cozy and that\u0027s not true if you have the the syllabus deterministic encoding you have everything you need to do cause you have more than you need to do cost so I would explicitly not refer to the old recommendation which only differ in the way they do math lease watching anyway right yeah I mean in terms of encoding integers and arrays and byte strings are identical which is all we care about okay I\u0027m gonna look at it and see how much work it is to pull the minimal encoding lengths into our document and it was too much work I\u0027ll just refer to the new the newer sections in the new document in off steps one of the things that we\u0027re supposed to do is to provide the iesg some level of yes we actually have multiple implementations that in Iraq and what we provide is whatever the ADEs happen to want on that particular day so the chairs and I and the ABS need to sit down and at some point agree on what it is that we\u0027re gonna send up we actually have three different families of implementations I\u0027ve got three implementations there\u0027s also an implementation in JavaScript and an implementation in Python they are not complete in terms of then they don\u0027t all do counter signatures they don\u0027t all implement all of the different algorithms that you could do the JavaScript one I know only does ECDSA and II CVH it doesn\u0027t do any of the Edwards curves but from an inter option operative from the point of doing interoperability and we give me even the report that I don\u0027t believe that matters because that\u0027s underlying cryptographic algorithms that has nothing to do with how cozy itself is structured so you can you can look at the messages you can build signed messages you can care part signed messages and they work it doesn\u0027t matter which signature hugger than use you know to the covers I had we\u0027d hoped to actually do a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:39",
    "text": "bit of interrupt testing at the hackathon but we didn\u0027t have anybody else who showed up so that didn\u0027t happen we need to try to do a little bit of formal interrupts testing sometime between now and Montreal ways we can Brendon Morin I just wanted to make a note about Interop and some of the content in the RFC and it\u0027s not spelt out very clearly exactly what the contents of a signature field are the the problem that this is caused for me has been that all of the crypto libraries I have access to default to producing an ASN one encoded signature and so the two fields have to be extracted from that to put them in a cause a signature container and a naive implementation will just put the whole thing in there and thus not interrupt okay that\u0027s that\u0027s the ECDSA yes it r NS Roman genitive unrelated so given it there\u0027s the family of all these implementations you were pointed to some of them where is the one unified place where I can go and see a list of them if you go to the cozy working group a github repository you will find the c-sharp version the java version and the c versions or which is are the three of mine and i am going to be putting pointers on the readme page of the of this particular document which is also in the cozy working group to point to the other two the other two implementations great thanks so to leave the subject of this group for a couple of seconds that is of course a question that comes up for other SIBO based formulas like cinnamon and so on as well and my plan is to extend the Seaboard at our own site in such a way that it can carry pointers to fermentations of cozy cinema suits and so on so i will contact you you after the meeting sometime after the meeting to collect that information I started their implementation but I don\u0027t even know if it\u0027s worth calling implementation only in human planted what was needed for group or score and ad hoc and only one way encryptions I can produce test vectors but again going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:45",
    "text": "forward anyone who\u0027s implementing and has feedback on something that\u0027s not clear something it needs to be done better I want to hear about it because that\u0027s the whole purpose of doing this revision is to make things clearer for implementers is anybody else have any other issues with regarding the structure draft so the algorithms draft it\u0027s got to get hub repository there\u0027s almost no changes in the actual contents at this point in time given the the what you had I\u0027m pulled that in for the for the a CVS a there\u0027s actually if you go to the root of the readme there\u0027s actually two pointers to RSC diff which will which will actually compare the current version and 80 81 52 so you can actually look to see what changed between everything I don\u0027t know of any open issues on this particular document or I didn\u0027t I\u0027ve got one now but if I missed anything I want to hear about it so where we headed I need to clean up this ticket there\u0027s security considerations I didn\u0027t bother actually rewriting them so that both the structure and the algorithm graph currently have exactly the same content and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s probably correct I needed a grammar and spelling pass I need to check for some of the missing pointers back to the original draft and I want to copy over a bit of the code in terms of what you need to put into the protected headers fields and what you need to protect put in the unprotected header fields for some of the algorithms just so people don\u0027t have to flip back and forth between the two documents does anybody else have any thing that they want to talk about on that document okay there been a few requests for Pete for us doing new algorithms the biggest one has been the paddock erupt and one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:45",
    "text": "of the questions that I had for us it went on the mailing list was are you doing this as a Content encryption algorithm or is a key rap algorithm and what I got back was the primary use case that he had in mind was for it to be a Content encryption algorithm of a key but not a key relative to the cozy message we\u0027re just doing a key distribution for something else the one pushback that I have about doing this is this is could be our first AE algorithm only so it is not in a EAD algorithm as near as I can I don\u0027t believe there is a version which is is there okay I mean I couldn\u0027t find it we\u0027re gonna all that suppose have to sit down and looked it could be but I don\u0027t know of anyone who uses it that way right so there\u0027s no external data that is MACT you in any implementation are more in the center I don\u0027t remember seeing one in the spec that I read it may be one in a different spec so the only question in in terms of that is as a Content encryption algorithm is do people think it\u0027s a problem setting that precedent that we have a Content encryption algorithm that is not a EAP okay so there\u0027s a whole slew of potential algorithms that we could put into this hash algorithms that we don\u0027t currently have although some of those hash algorithms are in the hash draft they could basic yeah this is all sorts of signature algorithms that we could be adding key rap algorithms Mac algorithms ADF algorithms so basically at this point it\u0027s if you have any particular things that you want to have added in this new draft speak up on the list be prepared to take care of a case as to why you think it should be added because I will tend to push back on everything even the ones I went to add I\u0027ll have to make sure that the ad is happy that we can do this in our charter because our Charter says we\u0027ll do the things which are needed by suit and other types of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:47",
    "text": "people and these are probably algorithms which they are not directly asking for we\u0027re just doing them just more and so my question would be what exactly is our strategy with for dealing with things like sha-3 so it\u0027s kind of inevitable that this has to be added at some point so why exactly want we do we want to make it hard for people to use this why do we want the first guy who wants to use this have to jump through hoops I think we have much better off if we ship this with batteries included I mean it is things like if you I mean the question is you say sha-3 yes so when you say sha-3 do you mean sha-3 256 sha-3 512 shake 128 or shape 256 yes I mean as hash algorithms independently as by a signature algorithm you\u0027re starting to get a big growth and there is a question as to how many people are going to be switching to Edwards kurz as opposed to staying with EC ba ma yeah right so I think the the my question wasn\u0027t it\u0027s presumably about Shari but rather about what what is our plan and and and in point of fact you know if your justification is the IETF is headed towards doing this then I think that\u0027s a reasonable justification it\u0027s just you know if you want to come in and say I wanted your kangaroo 12 I mean okay the King or 12 draft can do that actually I think it should but they\u0027re people who argue about that disease and see frg draft it\u0027s a registry entry so registry entries can can just be ended by cfrt draft but the interesting observation is that coffee is used by other stos and it would be really useful for them to to enable them to skip the IANA thing I mean if this this other standard where where ITU is squatting on code points because they didn\u0027t understand the IANA thing I mean they are also doing it wrong but which is even worse but the interesting observations they\u0027re squatting on code points because they didn\u0027t figure out how to get the IANA registrations and I would just like to take a little bit of the sand out of the gears here and just make it easy for other people so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:47",
    "text": "observation VI HF is going to do this is is a good observation but maybe something is really widely looked at like shell 3 it should also be in a good justification firing John Watson Eriksson I think shot 3 is something that should be discussed and added now I think the hash algorithm a good choice to standardize the shape but not the main shortly I think that can be discussed is that is needed as well but I think shake should be added now having kmac is also useful algorithm should be added now that\u0027s a short read about the right algorithm Quinn danged nest um I saw from the previous slide if you and the whooping group one day decided to do the PDF which came back you could do it with the HT DF or you could do just came back alone that is an option we specified and yep you could use it H PDF or you just you you know one past kmac myself and both options are affine to us and by me and and you know part of this is if we decide we want to add kmac which i think is probably a good idea that\u0027s the sort of discussions we need to have as to how many different variants of it exists so it\u0027s like saying I want to add kmac is unfortunately not a sufficient answer you have to say ok so you know do I want to add all the kit do I want to do it with HK D F or start with this yeah with HK D after I want to do a plane do I want to have an implicit tied together or do I want to do Chinese menu for doing key agreement plus k di plus key generation you know um so no I don\u0027t want to do you know 6,000 different things if people aren\u0027t going to be if people don\u0027t think they\u0027re going to be using them sure um so da is you and the working group will have to decide but to me and to us both options are fine in turn obscurity htif there\u0027s two stages and kmac those only one stage means one step so and going from from H max sha-2 to 2k Mac is already be any new one step yeah once one fewer steps that\u0027s right oh yeah 2 or 3 because 4 4 th Mac you do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:48",
    "text": "if the key is not the right size have to hash it and then it has two key with the XOR value and then you have seen the message altogether so does so yeah and that\u0027s and that\u0027s one of the reasons I come yeah I put K Mac on the list is I think it\u0027s is interesting I mean it\u0027s the key ramp algorithms the k WF when I put on there I don\u0027t know that anybody knows what it was I didn\u0027t until the middle of February when I was trying to find something else and I ran across this is a hash only key rap algorithm and I haven\u0027t torn it apart to enough to fit to figure out what it does and how it works but you know if we\u0027re looking at post quantum stuff then that may be something that\u0027s of interest so anyway if you have things that you think you want to do send them to the list and my current timeline is I kind of like to get a rough draft put together for Montreal of what what things we should be doing and that\u0027s it one thing the chairs will note is well the while the current charter does say we\u0027re doing doing essentially the minimal for this group and our dependent groups or groups groups have dependencies on this work there is nothing that necessarily stops us from retiring to do additional algorithms if we can\u0027t come to agreement relatively quickly so something to keep in mind hash algorithm document so what\u0027s currently in the document sha-1 a few different shot to variations and to shake algorithms the sha-1 is going into the registry marked as deprecated but it is there because a lot of people it\u0027s still perfectly good to use sha-1 for certain types of things if what you\u0027re doing the same I want to just filter out of I\u0027ve got a whole this Louis Lewis or did because I want to get the ones that are possible it\u0027s like if you get two or three back doesn\u0027t really make a difference because you just check each of one of them until you find the one with the right public key it\u0027s not something that we recommend in signature algorithms anymore but this is basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:48",
    "text": "just looking at hashes so depending on how you\u0027re using it if it\u0027s not a huge problem do you sha-1 but we\u0027re really pushing two people to move off the sha-1 so if that\u0027s why it\u0027s marked as deprecated um I don\u0027t know that there\u0027s a problem with the fact that we don\u0027t have a 512 bit strength sha-3 but I don\u0027t know I\u0027m never positive that shake 256 and sha-512 have the same security level Queen dang again um I saw that you rose something like shoppes / 64 or something what what does that mean sha-256 trunk 82:6 the first 64 bits you take the only signify bit stutters that\u0027s the hash value yes that\u0027s dangerous shouldn\u0027t do it if what I\u0027m doing is saying here\u0027s a thumbprint of a certificate and I want to send minimal bytes across it doesn\u0027t matter if I find extra certificates I just wanted to reduce the universe that I\u0027m looking at okay I not quite capture what you\u0027re using for but I have a thing about exactly what what the application for so you he wants like it\u0027s a indexed cut off looking for things not okay okay then that\u0027s that\u0027s what this test would be minimum but I\u0027d have to go back and look to see which RFC that is so with a Kathleen right not for what I\u0027m talking about so some like random index value for for certain objects this is like and then you had a question you got in to shake 256 and sha-3 512 yeah they are they the same strength um they both provide 256 bits of security the SHA the shot three 512 has farter base of preimage in second preimage resistance but that is essentially you know but collision is to the 56-bit of collision resistance strength and so 256 bits of security is more than enough so you don\u0027t you know you you don\u0027t need or anything go to file Topher for anything and but by doing that you\u0027re burning it double energy you know energy consumption and your function will to be twice slow from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:50",
    "text": "shake 512 shake 256 to char 3 5 12 so yeah just 1 so back to the / 64 thing there what I hear you saying I will translate into this is not a cryptographic hash function this is a cryptographic hash function I\u0027m not using this one yeah so I think it is useful to have these things that that cannot really be used as a graphic edge functions I recovered I would like actually like to edge which most definitely are not cryptographic and I\u0027m wondering whether this is the right space to do it because it\u0027s really useful to have numbers for those so we have this other protocol called constrained cost which which uses different hash functions and it would be nice to just have one registry where we have these hash functions so we don\u0027t have to create a hash function registry just for constraint cust I think that this is potentially a perfectly valid place to do that because they could be used yeah but then we should be very very clearly called Assad yes that yeah John Watson I think kangaroo 12 is interesting and supported adoption see if orgy but I think it\u0027s too early for cosy I think that has to wait a year or more so right now as the recommended value that I\u0027ve got on the sha-256 slash 64 is no because it doesn\u0027t really provide the the declension resistance that you want but I think it makes sense if especially if we\u0027re going to add the additional algorithms into this table to put another to know the column into it which describes something about the functions that they have the house this that could be used for so in terms of if you\u0027re looking for collision resistance as opposed to just filtering so that\u0027s clearer in the IANA registry Kathleen looks puzzled [Laughter] Kathleen Moriarty so I just making sure I heard what I thought I heard so you\u0027re gonna drop the truncation no okay I mean I call them into the registry which says the things like sha-256 slash 64 should not be used for X okay as and as as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:54",
    "text": "opposed to just saying recommended is no okay great I thought you\u0027re saying you were dropping and completely I want to think about this a bit more just in terms of right if people want to give me some input in terms of or the designated experts of which I\u0027m one input in terms of how frequently they think these hash algorithms are going to be used just in terms of whether we assigns some of the one byte space as opposed to assigning two byte identifiers to them I what I\u0027d like to hear that as a right now is probably the that suit is going to be using all the time it\u0027s gonna be a one bite and everything else is gonna be a few bitin your MOT some I think how often is it used it\u0027s not the only criteria it\u0027s probably how often it is going to use in a very constrained environment if it\u0027s very well used in the cloud environment where you have no constraints you can assign something to give it anyway so yeah so just a comment from the suit perspective the current version of the draft is actually importing hash identifiers from the named information draft if that needs to be adjusted we can do that but that\u0027s currently where we\u0027re finding the algorithm identifiers because there weren\u0027t any in cozy Brendan Morin right and this draft is in part response to the needs that were expressed from suit I\u0027ve been basically kind of against to having cozy define a hash structure and because if it tends to be one of those things that well it depends on what other information you\u0027re using so the question at this point is really do we put one into the hash draft or do we put one into the x.509 draft so what would be the use case we would be addressing with an example well it\u0027s I mean we need to do it define it for X 5 or 9 so we have we have to find a structure which says I\u0027ve got a hash and I\u0027ve got a value and the question is whether people in general would want to do that or as I generally recommend they should be defining their own structure so I said you know suit you should define your own your own cozy strut your own cc4 structure for this because you may want to put in things other than just the hash identifier and the hash value "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:54",
    "text": "you may want to put in things like a pointer to what it is that you\u0027re hashing yeah that\u0027s why it would be an example but okay mirroring something that people know from the sn1 world and say this is how you would do that in the cosy world I think that\u0027s a good criterion for chosen a an example okay I\u0027ll put one in and we\u0027ll see that where the big people object so documents missing because the security considerations at this point and then there\u0027s just a couple of procedural questions if suit wants to use this and we need to do early assignment of the identify of at least some of the identifiers the ones that they want to be using and there\u0027s a procedural question in terms of timing this potentially could be going into working class call even before the bitch documents evolve what I\u0027m doing this is writing considering considerations and that\u0027s it I mean we could we could see about a last call before the 8150 to bits I think the general track we\u0027ve been running is trying to make sure we\u0027re focused on more drafts the core bisque wraps first but if there\u0027s energy to get more done we can certainly approach that so what is stopping us from low-scoring this right now the fact I need to put in security considerations okay in an editorial your past when you have checkbox everything that was on the slides is to any thing remaining nope so I I don\u0027t see a reason to make our life to be cured with early assignment and so on it instead of just ripping this thing okay so I think the action there is we once Jim once you have those security considerations and editorial and preferably an editorial pass that we can we can start a last call there goes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:08",
    "text": "we\u0027ve got a certificate for using or we\u0027ve got a draft for you for being able to carry x.509 certificates in cozy messages or something similar so right now we have attributes defined for a bag of certs chain asserts the thumbprint of the cert and appoint a URL that points to a certificate the defaults in terms of which you are referring to whether you\u0027re referring to something on the signers and on the originators end or something on the recipients and depends upon whether you\u0027re looking at signing or key agreement signing it\u0027s is refers to the originators and key agreement it refers to the recipients and which Manson when I sat down to actually start doing things I said oh my gosh I need to do something for static static as well so I defined also I\u0027ve added some duplicate stuff for first static static I did not duplicate the bag of sorts because that seemed insane a single bag is sufficient you shouldn\u0027t need to so some of the open issues that we need to look at is there anyone there are now two header attributes that you would put in for a static static one identifies the sender\u0027s certificate one identifies the recipient certificate I know what I\u0027m doing so do we wanted to extend the key usage my inclination is null but if there\u0027s anyone who wants to restrict certificates to just being cozy then it makes sense to do it do we want to worry about transporting revocation information again my answer is probably not if someone really needs to do it then I want to know about it but other than that I don\u0027t care this actually does to find a cozy house structure if we put it over into the hash document we can just point to it rather than using it rather than defining another one here Safa one six six it doesn\u0027t really matter one with the other as far as I\u0027m concerned the sea bore that that the URL right now is set up to say put the Seaboard uri tag on it and that\u0027s probably redundant since you know that\u0027s the only thing that\u0027s going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:08",
    "text": "to be in that field so my information right now is I\u0027m going to remove that unless someone has a reason to say no Cosmo and so if this is an extension point where you might want to plug in another type of fixed on a reference instead the tag makes sense if it isn\u0027t it shouldn\u0027t be there because it\u0027s just inviting you to be used as an extension point Mike Jones Microsoft in the Jose context as you probably recall when we were asked to add the x.509 certificate fields x5c and the thumbprint etc one of the things that at least the Jose working group decided to do was say essentially that the certificate was always extra information which you could ignore if you didn\u0027t need it and the way they did that was to say that if you had a certificate the jwk representation of the public key that\u0027s on it must also be present if you have another slide please please proceed I mean this is basically I\u0027m just pointing to it I don\u0027t have a save it I don\u0027t have any we don\u0027t carry keys in messages right now that\u0027s a difference between closed E and Jose so one of the questions is do we do something what what do we want to do with certificates and cosy he\u0027s as Mike was saying what Jose did was say that the certificate is parallel to the key that\u0027s already in there which means that you potentially have to do some extra checks to make sure that what\u0027s in the certificate and wasn\u0027t in the jwk are consistent with each other the other way you could do it is we can say we\u0027re not going to make them because we\u0027re not going to do that because you\u0027re either gonna do one or the other you\u0027re not going to end up doing both so what we could do for that is we could basically create a new key type for cozy keys which says this is an x.509 certificate it also give us gives us a way forward because one of the issues that was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:09",
    "text": "raised on the mailing lists but in the last week is well what happens if what I want to do is use a JWT so you could basically identify a JWT the same sort of way into if you want to carry it in a key which makes my implementation easier because then I\u0027m still just carrying keys passing keys into the implementation and it\u0027s up to the implementation if you get what to do with a certificate or with a CWT we don\u0027t have any implementation experience playing with this but there is at least one standards groups which wants to get a code point for at least the things that go into the cosy signature cozy encryption document are objects so we can basically get to potentially do early adoption on those that is those four things and but not actually process finish process and document until we have have some good discussion on how we deal with fuzzy keys Mike again I guess thinking about the jose context we put in x.509 certificate representations because a lot of people had and still do have tools that if you were generating a key that was the wrapper that they got it in and they had things to consume it but we as an explicit transition step wanted to also make it possible for people to deploy without having to have an ASM dot 1 bar sir etc I realized the application context and motivation here is a little different and I don\u0027t have a firm conclusion in my mind but I\u0027d at least like people to think about making an explicit choice about do we always want a C bar key representation even if there\u0027s an ASN dot one key representation this is Jeffery askin signed exchanges don\u0027t use cosy so it\u0027s not directly applicable but as a data point let\u0027s see first your document says that a chain has to be linear that each one is signed by the next one in order to support different routes on different consumers we specified that the first one is the leaf but then the ones after that just are a collection of our kind of a bag that you can build chains out of that the system has to kind of search through those certificates to its root so think about whether that\u0027s what you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:11",
    "text": "want and second this was for signed exchanges for in web packaging so mostly desktop and phones rather than really constrained spaces does anyone know if he LS has changed from TLS used to be a straight chain and I don\u0027t know they changed or not you know they didn\u0027t is this it is it is now just the first one is the indentity sir and then you can have a random set after that you don\u0027t you do not include the trust anchor right and they and the leaf is included and the rest or you may find these helpful okay so it\u0027s the same sort of thing it makes sense to change that then Russ Townsley and the the second data point was we do send revocation information we send an OCSP response and we also include a signed certificate timestamp for certificate transparency so think about including that in your list because mama know that you talk about parallel copies of the same thing how about the thumbprint in the URL why do you think those are oh you won\u0027t have up for both of them int yes I don\u0027t know of any reason why you couldn\u0027t I don\u0027t we don\u0027t we do not the document does not say you can only have one of these Oh Russ Housley again I\u0027m worried about including both a Rakhi and a certificate if you don\u0027t have any ability to pull the public key out to do a compare to make sure they are consistent you\u0027re going to end up essentially ignoring the cert so why did you even put it in John Watson does the document describe how to handle two of these should be care if it\u0027s end or or you have issues or do you need to make sure that both match or two of which thumbprint and URL now it doesn\u0027t if one of them\u0027s wrong that\u0027s life this is Jeffrey asking again um I haven\u0027t read your penny in detail do you talk about signing over the certificate and and if so what kind of what do you sign over no we don\u0027t talk about signing of this certificate you could put this in as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:13",
    "text": "protected header in which case the signature would pepper it so you do have the option of making it a protected or an unprotected ever okay assignment believe the document says this can be an unprotected header because it is internally signed it needs to be verified and if it is removed it does not affect the evaluation of the message per se right yeah TLS signs over it signed exchanges include both a URL and a thumbprint and there\u0027s a question of is it the thumbprint of the leaf certificate or the whole chain and we sign over the thumbprint okay so those I think are still open issues for discussion on the list and then the first is the standard question what did I miss going forward still haven\u0027t written there the the security considerations for this document either I think we need some implementation experience so we know for sure what is happening on some of these things but I\u0027ve there\u0027s still at least one person has asked for some early early point assignments for an external standards body and I think I\u0027m done they wanted to actually carry a CWT in the message just like you would carry an x.509 certificate so I you have basically it a you know a signed thing which does a bag of statements which associated a person in Turkey as a CWT as stated for next time I\u0027ll answer this document does not cover that that is something it was raised within the last week and there\u0027s two questions one do we want to do it to is if is this the appropriate document to do it there should be a separate document okay thank you Jim so I think what what I\u0027m hearing for next steps is the document needs some cleanup and then then we can see where we go from there good morning I\u0027m Mike Jones from Microsoft and I\u0027m here to talk about an individual draft that defines some additional algorithms so what spec does is register as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:14",
    "text": "number of algorithmic fires for algorithms that are used by the World Wide Web Consortium web authentication meaning it\u0027s a final w3c standard there\u0027s for RSI signing algorithms that are registered which weren\u0027t already registered for use in cozy as well as the SEC P 256 K 1 curve and signing with that I\u0027ll note that this draft is explicitly intended to fulfill a charter deliverable which is on the screen there and just for reference if you\u0027re downloading the slides this is the final web authentication URL the chair is put out a call for adoption as a working group document for this on March 13th to run until about today I\u0027m not a chair but I saw number of people saying yeah do that and nobody\u0027s saying don\u0027t thankfully I received two really good sets of reviews already one from Jim shod one from John Matson which I\u0027ve replied to you on West they both found a number of things that they suggest made the same suggestions for which tells me that yeah we should probably do those things and you can see those on list those things that are not as obvious will be the following subsequent slides for input right here and now Jim correctly pointed out that there\u0027s two algorithms in web authenticate there are a class of algorithms called elliptic curve direct anonymous attestation EC DAA that have Jose style identifiers 82 56 and 85:12 these were defined by yan comma mesh of IBM and some additional people I think Ralph from [Music] knock-knock and originally done in a Fido one UAF text and web authentic can do at a stations about the authentication that occurred using these formats now I will know that the web authentic considerations section and proposes just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:14",
    "text": "registering these referencing the spider draft as the primary definitions we could just decide as cozy to first just ask Ayane to process this and have the designated experts either say yes or no and only if the designated experts say no would we even have any work to do there\u0027s also been questions about are these great algorithms in the first place but now we\u0027re batting out of my league Jim shod coming to the microphone I suspect us a designated expert Jim Shaw designator IV only will they do have difference that\u0027s going to show up in the registration between doing it here and having the w3c do it is the recommended column will be would be know for sure the w3c does it and it might be either yes you know if we do it John Bradley walking to the microphone while it is the ECD AAA stuff is the product of fine quality crypto researchers in Fido there have been a number of external security researchers who have expressed significant concerns about those algorithms so we should understand what the potential security risks are before we set about blessing them through a registration I it was about three four months ago there was a bunch of papers and things that came out basically attacking web authentically some people believed had significant flaws so they\u0027re not widely implemented outside of UAF and they\u0027re implemented almost not at all in UAF in reality so Tony probably has some opinion never Tony nominees are not currently implemented so I would not go forward with doing these at this time it doesn\u0027t until there\u0027s some implementations that actually shake this stuff out right and indeed I was not proposing to put these in this draft this draft today consists of well known algorithms with well-known security properties and we could finish it very quickly if we suck this stuff in will be a year plus at least with CFR G involvement and what-have-you but I did want to point out that as chartered we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:15",
    "text": "could have included these and I did not for some of these reasons all right well you know Charter says we things that are needed by others that doesn\u0027t necessarily mean we have to take everything so just pointing that out there I\u0027m hearing a lot of these this is really bad is there anybody that wants to risk coming to the mic to have a counter-argument yeah okay so I think it\u0027s I think we I think we can continue without without trying to add these okay very good I\u0027m well just as a personal action item bring this up in the web authentic inclusion here the document title is as usual the subject of more comments than anything else I chose a very generic title which was correct but probably not totally descriptive and I would be glad to have the title changed in a working group document should such a thing be adopted matt miller matthew miller to to to color this bike shed i so i did i did intend to post a list and I apologize for not doing that me I was ready for adoption myself although I admit I would have preferred a title that points out this is this is targeting web authentic other feedback and that\u0027s that would be very helpful and I would be fine with the working title something like additional algorithms used by webathon I see people nodding as anybody retching okay that would be a fine working title after adoption thank you the other piece of feedback that I receive from both reviewers there was a string which came from one implementation that already exists I think by Vladimir Duchenne off of connect ID where he implemented signing using the SEC P 256 K one curve and he called it P 256 K and both my reviewers said just call it SEC P 256 K 1 and that makes sense to me or was it your implementation no Philip spoken and zero the other algorithm name that is of the other curve name commonly algorithm name was Kay - 256 and that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:20",
    "text": "one I see more common than this one this is the name from the SEC to document I believe Russ is probably SEC one okay Jim shot um I don\u0027t care what you call it in you knows a genius you can keep that well that\u0027s the whole point of the slide so it\u0027s just that the descriptive string in in the registry was confusing if for the cozy site because that\u0027s going to be an integer it doesn\u0027t have that value that\u0027s right anyplace minutes I don\u0027t know if this is necessarily the right room to be asking what that value should be so I think we\u0027ll need to consult the at least the Jose list and maybe the Jose does need experts for their opinion more than just the one and that\u0027s fine again like so for the minutes let\u0027s add a note that the chairs will afford that request okay Jim asks the question do we have a recommendation for the sect P 256k one whether to use uncompressed or compressed point representations or whether indeed both they\u0027re perfectly acceptable obviously uncompressed will work I would be interested in having data on for this curve what are people doing in the wild I know for instance that no matter what you think of them the Bitcoin people use this I haven\u0027t looked into how they\u0027re representing the points does anyone in the room know here comes Russ Russ Housley I don\u0027t know how it\u0027s done in Bitcoin but I do know how it\u0027s done in a bunch of other places and there was a patent issue with compression but patents like expired so do what you want thank you for answering the question I was going to ask ya I knew that to be the case that you could do either now in a legally successful way what I didn\u0027t know whether there was existing practice that it was worth mentioning and at least that\u0027s what I thought because of the previous patent issue oh wait well we can discuss this more on the list currently the draft doesn\u0027t say anything at all maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:27",
    "text": "so the next steps that I view or the chairs need to make a call about whether to adopt the draft and then assuming a working group draft gets created at that point I would start addressing feedback from the reviews that have been received in the discussions in this room so so as Mike pointed out that working group last call a working group call for adoption does end today given all the feedback we\u0027ve gotten on the list and lack of any objections here I believe we will be adopting it I think the one question we would have is for the two reviewers that do happen to be in the room is it important to address those concerns before okay you\u0027ve gotten headshakes from both of them so we will send the announcement on the list by but yes please submit submit a draft IETF Cosi item we can confer afterwards as far as what the short name is because that gets that\u0027s easier to get correct now versus later okay Thank You Russ it\u0027s your turn mmm-hmm Ross Housley I\u0027m gonna talk about the use of hash based signatures yes okay so the CFR G has been working on hash based signatures since 2013 basically the draft that for the algorithm HSS LMS is in the RFC editors queue it\u0027s an auth 48 so we know what the number is going to be as soon as it pops so it\u0027s eight five five four and it describes an adaptation of some work that goes back to the mid 90s original work done by very famous cryptographers you know planned for Diffie winters and its end merkel so a lot of stuff going on there but with this group probably cares about is how does this what are the characteristics of the algorithm so you build a tree it\u0027s hash pastry Merkle "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:28",
    "text": "trees and the number of signatures that you can use depends on the number of leaf nodes in the tree so it has a finite number of signatures that\u0027s one of the biggest criticisms of this algorithm but it has small public keys and a low computational cost it\u0027s very fast to validate those signatures sign the and the amount of code that\u0027s needed to validate one of those signatures is very small which is why a lot of the IOT folks are interested in it you just need the hash function and then so tree management stuff in terms of the signing side you can have a small private key if that\u0027s anytime you\u0027re willing to do some extra stuff you have a bigger private key if you want faster signing time that\u0027s a computational memory size trail the signatures however are quite large and key generation is rather slow of course that\u0027s only done by the signer one of the things that find that makes this attractive is that they are quantum safe signatures so even if a quantum computer comes to pass these signature stand so this slide can has the conventions right out of the internet draft I\u0027m not going to read through you know them but the what goes in each of the fields in the for a signature is there have comments about this please talk about the list next so why why are we carrying about this like I said the small verification code size is very attractive in the IOT space since it\u0027s quantum safe a bunch of people are advocating that we use these now to sign firmware that way we have a way to deploy the code that implements the next generation of crypto in a safe way if something comes along that makes this difficult such as a large-scale quantum computer we still have confidence in the software update integrity mechanism so suit has been looking at this suit has already decided they are using cozy that\u0027s a decision we\u0027re looking at this is one of the possible mandatory implement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:28",
    "text": "algorithms that discussion is going to happen later this week so I\u0027m hoping that this discussion doesn\u0027t change that next slide so we already had the working group adoption of this some small errors were found that basically we\u0027re done to align the the document that is now in the RFC editors queue and and this Jim shod provided some comments they were dealt with I think to his satisfaction and Jim also has done an implementation now so his cozy library now supports this and he provided some test factors that I could use to put at the end of the document and I think once those two additions are then it\u0027ll be ready for a working group last call I think questions Queen dang I have a question since The Dispatch is it has a lot of options I don\u0027t know what what option did you pick in the draft so the way that the options are the signature itself tells you which options were picked so this document doesn\u0027t have to say anything about them okay awesome okay so there\u0027s code points for Miami that are signed to each possible step and they are encoded in the signature itself so you know how to so gonna specify the options to be used but at the time you build the tree you pick them okay so it\u0027s uh alright so it\u0027s not in this draft okay that\u0027s right somewhere else Jamaat\u0027s on something like you just said that everything is included in the signature that I think that would be very helpful information to the draft for implementers readers I\u0027m sure I can add that I if it\u0027s not there I think it is but I\u0027ll check any other comments all right so it sounds like four fractions then you you have one more revision to do with these updates and then we should be able to do a working group last call on that also I mean this is arguably the most complete of the documents that were that we initially took on so if there\u0027s no objections we can look at doing that I think we\u0027ve still got a number of things to deal with that the core drafts that this shouldn\u0027t be too much of a distraction okay great so four minutes yes we\u0027ll update them won\u0027t do okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:45",
    "text": "all right so the next steps for the working group we were looking at over the over the between now and ITF 105 mostly in consult 8 consulting with Jim with the with the corpus graphs what what we are looking to propose is having a another virtual interim to discuss some of these outstanding issues again targeting sometime in May again focusing on on any 152 bits with the idea that by IETF 105 we\u0027re either if we\u0027re really really really optimistic we might be able to see if we can get it to the state we feel we can pop wreck but most likely to get to the state that we\u0027re doing a working group last call on the best drafts also for one at 105 talking again with Jim and a couple other people at the hackathon looking at attempting to do a in Interop some form of interrupt testing at the Montreal hackathon so the anybody that has implementations please reach out to the chairs we\u0027d like to to start at least that planning sooner rather than later and we\u0027ll start to put together some some formal something a little bit more formal ideas on how to how to structure that does anybody have any comments questions or concerns with this this temporary path forward all right what this point we are done with what we had scheduled so if there\u0027s any other comments or discussion anybody wants to bring up now is the time all right if anybody has not signed the blue sheets please come see us thank you friends franceska for taking minutes and Russ and Kathleen for for do essentially transcribing since the Java room also we\u0027re a wrap and you got an extra 15 oh I\u0027m sorry Carson I thought yeah just one comment on the virtual interim stuff there is a number of working groups that are doing virtual inference repeatedly and so on so I think it would be a nice idea to just coordinate this so you could use one of the slots of the Seaboard working group so it\u0027s not so much of a change for people okay we will talk with the Seaport chairs all right thank you everybody "
  }
]