[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "No we have to capture what\u0027s being said and importantly you might at least go back and check that we comment there or anything that you actually didn\u0027t say I think oh yeah well I think this this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "governance are disposed to this how we govern our process here and coming Foundation and the main takeaway is a thing you say here we are reporting what we\u0027re saying we are also setting it the echo please use the microphone and state your name please keep going around and there\u0027s a lot so we have two sections this time thank you for making it to this one first thing we have set up the agenda so that we\u0027re covering all the drafts that\u0027s on this day this was a little bit of a rearrangement if you are at all interesting in the versioning discussion please come the requirements document is has been a product of the design team and we really want to make sure we have good agreement and working group on the requirements that are documented and make that a working group document where we go with that in the long term we\u0027ll figure that out we\u0027ll figure out whether we end up taking it to full RFC or not the important thing is is that by making a working group document we are getting agreement that those are the requirements that the solution is going to adhere to so it\u0027s a really important discussion so please come participate in the next session on that alright so since the last meeting what\u0027s happened we have one new RFC that\u0027s awesome to actually get an RFC out and we have three that are in the eye with the ihe for publication there\u0027s been a good amount of discussion on ACL model scheme amount I think we\u0027re close that\u0027s pretty important to get out of course I\u0027m biased because I worked on that but it\u0027s gating other work so we really want to make sure that that is finalized I think there was a request for some feedback from the authors is Martin here I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "opens oh okay so Martin if you are listening I know there might be an outstanding response necessary on that document okay since the last meeting we have adopted a few documents and were going to be talking about them now I believe the artwork folding has already been republished as a working group document so it\u0027s now draft IETF I made we made up these slides before that was was done we will see we expect to see the yang instance data submitted real soon oh so I just looked at the author and said you know what are you gonna do your job and his response was cherries you haven\u0027t done yours because we have to approve it so we apologize for that and that will happen by one of us during this session this is more just for awareness general awareness we have some old liaisons we didn\u0027t get anything new but it\u0027s good to know that these are out there in particular the invitation to participate in the monthly conference calls is a pretty substantive invitation and we wanted to remind the group that that\u0027s out there and if you\u0027d like to join those discussions particularly if you\u0027re interested in the OEM topic with it\u0027s an opportunity to contribute to a different group and help align our work with their work or their work with our work and I guess that\u0027s the end because I\u0027m clicking there\u0027s no more so we\u0027re going to move on the next just click to the next tab yeah and there\u0027s a full screen there it is okay so so quick states update on history drafts and they\u0027re actively almost done so there\u0027s not much more to be 70 it\u0027s my pick of working-age scroll okay so the first draft means face more interested extensions draft has been no update since the last ITF so effectively think that this draft is done so let\u0027s call it to the chairs and I think we struct is done my question is whether we should hold off progressing this a further until we\u0027ve got the songs face VLAN lot all done so I\u0027ll just cover that as well and then we\u0027ll come back to that so next slide please Joshi works okay so the the 70s VLAN model one again there\u0027s been no updates its last ITF effect again this was also done this is weighty on two things one is the LTP na-yang model in their structure the way that they augment the network instance container they\u0027ve lost that little container so all the LPN configs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "sits directly under the network instance I wasn\u0027t quite sure that that was right or not so query that with them and and that only affects the examples but I think it\u0027d be good to try and get those examples correct so then the plan I think for the altitude model was that it\u0027s going to go to law school fairly soon in Bess so I think I\u0027m just waiting on that close on that issue and maybe that resolved this week and then the last one is effectively there was some changes made to the model to make it simpler and I wanted to get approval from the I Triple E 8201 should be eighty to one working group on those changes so I\u0027ve emailed them yesterday not as a form of the aides of informally asking them to have a look at that and give comments back I have had someone comment back pointing out a mistake in that model in one of the Wednesdays and identity so I will fix that so needs to be one update for that and I\u0027m hoping that effectively once a to get one agree that they\u0027re happy with the changes then we can go to work with my support as well if we had talked about formalizing that liaison at the last meeting what do you think is the informal adequate or should we do something more formal and I\u0027ll note that the I Triple E is meeting next week I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s anything when it try to accomplish informally getting a liaison done in that time I feel a little quick but so I think because he\u0027s been discussing before I think your formal should be fine unless they come back and say look we need this be formally discussed and I don\u0027t see if John\u0027s in the room or Glenn here but I know John certainly ITF this week I will try and speak to John messenger he\u0027s the eighty to one and vice chair just to try and you know tribute along effectively this relatively minor changes it\u0027s not like anything huge is just sort of simplification in the model but she\u0027s going to check the other half of the names so if they are and I think through the iesg process I suspect at that point they\u0027ll also check they do got one but they\u0027re happy that\u0027s what happened with one of the other drafts and so I don\u0027t think formulas is required unless they you asked for one is mine and you participate in the coordination meeting they\u0027re gonna be yeah I think so you\u0027ll bring it up yeah various points yes sir what various places yeah yeah thank you any other questions yeah just for your own information we we one of the biggest questions is what we do to get this so that we can last call it so it\u0027s good to hear you\u0027re making those steps so as soon as you think you\u0027re ready you\u0027d like to know that well the yeah I guess the one question to you is we could work we could potentially not this one with the previous one I could we could do last call on that one now probably\u0027s do to them together yeah if we\u0027re really close it would make sense to do them together obviously we wouldn\u0027t want to hold anything up you know you know if we come to the next meeting and we\u0027re in the same place you know yeah okay one technical comment just looking to your slides about the good reveal to VPN one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:21",
    "text": "so no no this is it so is there anything you want to raise this with the the best group and where do you stand I\u0027ve raised it with the authors of that draft before it\u0027s ITF I like a couple of weeks ago and they said that they were happy with the current structure so I\u0027m just gonna wait to see how well that goes to current structures is there the way they have it documented or the way you have it in the example but so Mike my current example matches what they\u0027re doing okay but it\u0027s in that example when you look at the example think yeah they\u0027re not quite sure that\u0027s as clean as it could do and often is on their side so it\u0027s it\u0027s only informative rather normative okay but the for the chairs is there any action you want us to take to help to try to align things where you\u0027re happy no I\u0027m happy you see their choice okay actually I\u0027m I need to update you they change their mind okay okay good morning Kent I\u0027m presenting yang bed extensions action Martin put together these slides and just click through them quickly there\u0027s only two issues the first is the naming issue as you know we\u0027re trying to migrate the rest cocking Davis extension from the RFC 80 40 and and so we were originally going to call this extension also yang beta but I think some felt that using the same name was leading to confusion and a different name might be better so some ideas were kicked around currently structure is out there I\u0027m we\u0027re open to other ideas as I know very minor detail point but now is the time to throw out ideas I think just simply beta would also be good this is it so are you asking for objections or you\u0027re asking for concurrence well I\u0027m actually yeah either if anybody has any opinions a strong opinion either way but if there\u0027s no objections then I guess we\u0027ll move forward with structure because that\u0027s what\u0027s on this slide and there\u0027s no objection in the room let it be noted and second and last issue actually this is a holdover from before as as well Martin posted to the lists and there was no response so we\u0027re here discussing it in the room so there\u0027s no agreement on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:23",
    "text": "the issue as to whether a structure must have a unique top-level name or not and of the syntax for augment yang data to resolve this we proposed on the mailing list that the structure would be encoded like any data that is with a container so for example if you\u0027re defining in your yang the structure modifies description datastore error info with a leaf reason then you can see that the instance document would contain it\u0027s like a container so it has the outer envelope modified subscription data store error info whereas that the current if was the current yang data structure you would just see reason as being on the outside so this is the proposal it\u0027s a it\u0027s actually a pretty large divergence I feel from the current gang data structure and in particular I think many of you are aware that the zero touched raft is making use of that ability for the Duffy that the gang data the name of the yang data itself it\u0027s not showing up in the in the in the structure of the instance data document so if we were to do this I\u0027d have to update the zero to strap to accommodate it but beyond that minor detail it\u0027s probably well I actually feels probably better long term approach better to be explicit to have the had the name of the yang data or structure show up in the instance document directly as opposed to it not any are there any objections to to this approach comments Rob Wilson Cisco so my only comment is whether that\u0027s going to make it not quotes not what\u0027s so nice to read effectively in the instance data so I think we used to see in context how yang and it\u0027s gonna be used and whether that will actually mean that when you like augment extra data I come exactly where as some use cases of it but I wonder whether this is going to make that more ugly in terms of like the messages you\u0027re seeing whereas before it wouldn\u0027t start smiling concern I think the if the insta-tox mean you get is probably I identical in the sense that the the Arthur at the game designer can construct it\u0027s still before they would have to do themselves put a container if they really wanted it to show up a you know a container with yang RS cocking data it would be the outermost of a container followed by whatever you want inside and now you don\u0027t have to put that outermost container it\u0027s implicit my question is so but with augment yang data I think that\u0027s what you were saying now you need to reference this and how would that show up in the x-pac it was more than you\u0027re saying you get the container for free now or what are you doing well that container to be there at all it\u0027s my question I think to give a years case for when the container would not be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:25",
    "text": "needed at all I\u0027ll need to look uneasy look at the draft and have a look so might be think we\u0027re different use case so my some misunderstanding at the value I see here is is that you can augment the what\u0027s now call the structure before you couldn\u0027t augment the structure you get all the augment the instance right I think that\u0027s part of it but it also this gives you so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a concern that the for how should I say ambiguity showing up if there\u0027s multiple top-level structures having the same name and with the prior approach it\u0027s actually possible that two different yang designers may accidentally I think through an augmentation have the same name show up in the same namespace and that was causing a problem but but with this it no longer you it teases apart the ambiguous ambiguity is disappeared so I think both both were motivations so Rob you said you would want to see more so I think you would like to take this to the list and have it um I\u0027ll have a look at the draft and then I\u0027ll like onto this on the list if I have an issue it or not okay I try to remember all the struck the background of the history wasn\u0027t this issue I think was it Andy raising it that you had this days of space yes and that actually he checked over because I know Andy\u0027s lunch everywhere okay yeah I guess I wasn\u0027t necessarily and less important is concerned as inland I thought realistically would this really be an issue or not and I\u0027d wonder where this is going to be harder to use in some way that\u0027s my concerns it Rashad from Cisco sorry I haven\u0027t read the draft in more than a few weeks but maybe a question for Rob I don\u0027t understand his question because if you don\u0027t have the outer container you don\u0027t have a context how do you know what in what context who is because I think Rob you are questioning whether that outer container is needed right it might be I\u0027m confused with the old man case the sir big case where it feels like you don\u0027t want this container necessary to be there if you recall in 1848 the description statement forgetting data said that the it had to resolve to a single container or a container and and so this actually codify that you remember in the co2 strap kind of worked around that language and said well it does resolve to a container it\u0027s just a choice a choice of containers and but this actually would remove that ability to even do the choice of demeanors you would actually you know so now you really just have that top level named structure it just makes it a little bit more explicit I think what was intended by the RFC 80/40 description statement I think I\u0027ll go and read the draft before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "asking more okay well certainly with both leaves will confirm them on the list and that is the end of the presentation thank you one comment Kent\u0027s presentation the Yankee instance data draft starts with gang date that container whatever yeah we are happy yeah I\u0027m sorry ever get larger and instance late the draft bow is adopted and I\u0027m very happy to see that so just very quick recap we need a young instance data offline sometimes because maybe we did the data already in design time before any device they actually implemented it or maybe we need data that would come from a gang server like you yang the library but you don\u0027t have the relevant network notes available if you think about someone designing a management system that can handle ten different types of notes you will not have all ten notes available and configured correctly so you need instance data sometimes these are the some of the use case and these are just use cases they are not the normative in any way that was clarified in the Lakers draft most important is documenting server capabilities there in the net comp there\u0027s already a draft about documenting notification capabilities that\u0027s rather adopted by net concept is already using this concept but some companies including mine is already using such instance data for pre loading default configurations for example access control you need to you could preload access control rules which part of the big day the complete data leave four available for different groups and roles and there were some other use cases as well which I I\u0027m sorry not to mention here yes DeLuca I think that this document goes into quite some length explaining all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "these use cases but I believe there are other use cases for example we use instance data in rfcs as as examples we often validate instance data with tools which means they must be in some kind of file or konradin to different formats so I believe it\u0027s not necessary to provide more and more use cases and because I think that it\u0027s quite undisputable that instance data can exist on their own so I would suggest to shorten this pattern simply mention some some examples because I don\u0027t think that anybody is arguing with the need of of having some and the fact is for example in our FCS we had to use with XML examples we had to use some get replies or things like that which is sort of stupid so I think that it\u0027s it\u0027s quite clear that something like this is needed and there is no need to have several pages of use cases or something earlier there has been some debate now I\u0027m happy it\u0027s over and I\u0027ll try to look into shortening this while at least listing the use cases I think is useful even if in a shorter format I also think that in fact in the light of the discussion of young data I believe that there is no reason why we cannot have just a standalone instance data that do not belong to any server or whatever and then this is a use case just for using yang without any yang data extension directly on on validating such that use cases because in this case I don\u0027t see any reason for for doing this young data referent having a separate augment statement and think extension and things like this sorry what do you mean by stand alone so I think you needed a yang model to define I have some data like the yang data extension is trying to address and this is just some data that I need to validate no because yes if you think about an example in RFC yes you are right if you think about that\u0027s a pre-loaded set of configuration of access control rules then you want to say that this is the exact set of data and I need meta data connected to this actually this set of data so that I can identify when it\u0027s updated when it\u0027s who\u0027s the author and a few other things yeah this is not related to this drop so maybe my Haitian jet I\u0027m learning well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:31",
    "text": "I\u0027ll agree with her on that we may not need more examples I think it\u0027s important to understand where all the instance data can be used not just in a part of RFC but also in how it gets packaged and distributed along with disk began definition itself so yes I would agree that we may not need more examples that we need to at least understand where all the onion streams data can be used but I think it\u0027s definitely at least worth mentioning each of the use case so if I left out an use case then I\u0027m sorry for it and then please tell me okay so the basic idea is unchanged reuse existing formats from net comp and rest confer a get operation or request actually the reply for the get and decorate it with instance data which might not be needed if you are just given showing an example in a IPF draft or idea RC but often for the other use cases it is very important to have this instance metadata added we have the two formats and there is a need some time to document both config or true and config force data we are thinking about the C camp alarm draft there they will have a list of alarm alarm types that an network node can send which is read only but documenting it and potentially using it for populating the server with that data if they\u0027re still important today to document read-only data and yes bar partial data sets are also burned again I think that in some cases you can have a data model that contains both configuration and stated and in some cases you just want to provide configuration for example as I understand it this is not possible in your approach I think that it should be I don\u0027t know why do you think it\u0027s not possible because then you can run into if some stay data somewhere is is mandatory and it\u0027s not it\u0027s not contained in the instant data that you provide because you just want to be configuration then it can be reflect invalid so sorry no partial data sets are allowed and in the draft it is stated that that means that any mandatory mineral amounts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "constraints might be violated we\u0027re allowed to be violated so if you want them you don\u0027t provide the mandatory part so be it configuration or or state I will probably ask in the mailing list and I can please have a look at this data I think three things I\u0027m talking about something a little bit different it\u0027s not about minimum let\u0027s talk about it but yeah it should the plan is to avoid configuration and and state and if you want oh then you can provide only configuration or only state or that\u0027s a full configuration with 30% of the mandatory state yeah so the draft was adopted by the workgroup and the adoption was rather than relatively close to the closing date for the draft submission and there were some national holidays in hungry so I missed that deadline but now it is submitted but I think today it\u0027s pending or the workgroup chairs with sexually very late submissions I think I think thank you very much yeah he did so yeah it was my fault but then I needed your help now anyway the last form of that last the private draft that was stored is really the same as what what will be stored as the first version of the net and the workgroup draft the name of the draft has changed so that it really experts to criticize that this is about the file format this is thought about how to use it or and mandating any of the use cases I very much hope that some of them will be mandated or recommended and that I assume and maybe I\u0027ll even work on it that there will be an that they\u0027re connected draft or that written beside describes how to use this the document server capabilities actually yeah the net cough notification capabilities one is one such draft there have been some changes since the last IETF clarified the scope is the most important and we added one parameter for the to tell and define the data store where this data is intended to go that might not always be necessary so it\u0027s an optional parameter let\u0027s say if it\u0027s paid data then it\u0027s trivial that it goes into operational or interstate they take you on on an MVA so we don\u0027t depend on an MBA at this point at this point so open issues some people stated that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:37",
    "text": "might need more metadata potentially metadata for each target yang module and this terminology target yang module so the yang module that defines the structure and content of the instance data the real data that is put into inside this wrapper it depends on what kind of additional metadata we need we might we might need this birth target module metadata the big question was how do you define which version of the target yang modules you are using which does version of the target yang modules is this set of instance data good for and there is no good answer for this because the versioning theme has not finished its work yet definitely is just saying that revision date X that\u0027s too strict it will be up the modules will the update is for a number of reasons taking the most easiest just waz Mattox and we still don\u0027t want the instance data to be updated for every of these so my proposal is indicating in the instance data the revision that was used when well the instance data was last updated if you combine that with that ability information for the taja yang modules then you have a very good view of where and this could be used but giving anything more specific I don\u0027t think is possible at this point Kent as a contributor and how would you do that to indicate which were very nauseous if you first open issues have a list of target modules which would not be needed that much because namespace is already dictated but if you want to include the revision date of the taja tiang modules that include list of taja yin-yang modules in the metadata including their revision date I don\u0027t see any better solution than that the neck next question came up yes but the whether this instance data set or instance data file can be used might depend on the features implemented by a specific implementation specific on network device yes that is true but then documenting revisions features deviations we are getting into a lot of details and we don\u0027t want to I just say don\u0027t want to replicate the full yang library inside every piece every instance data file I see that that you might try to say that use it together with that or you rather say that if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:39",
    "text": "get a bit more instance data than you bargained for because you don\u0027t support some of the features then follow the compatibility rules and ignore that yes vogelson Cisco so I think miami-dade why raising someone else I think my aim here is to be able to say any service routes of loading instance data document and have enough context in that document itself that it knows what schema to uses and what features need to be there so that\u0027s that\u0027s what my aim is so that you don\u0027t have to have extra metadata information around the instance data to know be able to interpret that I see but I think revision and the comb I hope very vision and the compatibility rules meaning that you ignore whatever data is there but ya don\u0027t know it should be now if we say that that\u0027s not enough then I would say then rather say always say that for every instance data file you need associated another instance data file about Ganga library and reference that so don\u0027t reproduce the complete yang library information in every instance data files yeah I don\u0027t do you need to but and again I\u0027m not sure it features whether you need to or not you just assume that all features are available maybe might be sufficient it\u0027s just that\u0027s thus the aim is - to say look I don\u0027t want somebody else had to say all to interpret this file I need to have this extra information I assume a yes and I assume at this point that you can write your instance data for all features supported and if some feature is not supported actually on the network device then compatible compatible ignoring or discarding of the additional data will work yeah and there was another requirement that metadata yes we defined the Draenei set of metadata but there might be other parts needed so augmenting must be possible and I hope that yeah Ken and Martin will solve that problem with yang data or yang structure draft so I had one other comment actually going back to the issue the latter raised I actually agree with Lada that would be better to have the use cases section per se shorter I think that it\u0027s still quite detailed for the individual use cases and I\u0027d rather those either move into the appendix or it just says look these are things and how in Stata could be used without going into much detail as if you write another draft on server capabilities you\u0027ve now got text into places describe what those are the conflict potentially I sort of feel that if we start our draft then that text move there you just say this is an example of how it can be used without having so much detail so don\u0027t think it\u0027s key to the document I think the key thing is really how do you actually document instance data I can make it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "throw it through I can make it shorter and the other question thank you for you yeah so just so you know what\u0027s happening with the keyboard doesn\u0027t work on the laptop so we\u0027re sort of stuck with the view that it\u0027s in so one of the benefits are major in one of the benefits of doing what the chairs are asking submitting the slides in time is that the slides are out of date so this is our fairly simple document on handling long lines in artwork and it\u0027s now a working group draft that\u0027s just just leave it right yes brilliant this so I can\u0027t read any of the slides if that\u0027s too small and that\u0027s yeah I sort of stencil I tell you what how many people are watching online put your hand up if you\u0027re watching online right so I upon me for a couple of slides going over of what\u0027s going on that to set context I think that\u0027s okay because we\u0027ve just adopted so what we know is the the format of drafts is a 72 character limit line feeds sometimes have meaning in particular when they show up in XML and JSON they actually have semantics and that combines with the desire to include examples in our documents where those examples can be automatically validated and not confused users who try and sort of cut and paste the examples into real use that means that we have to do something to hand or line feeds that are necessary in our examples and we\u0027ve actually got some examples that are in our documents that have gone out where people have had their way around this or written special cases and I know from bitter experience a lot of time is spent trying to construct examples that actually don\u0027t overlap the 72 so the other thing we need to know is that lots and lots of different tools and development approaches are used by different people so there\u0027s never one size fits all and if we scroll forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:42",
    "text": "so what we\u0027re trying to do is come up with a notation a current a way of handling these examples with line rats so that there\u0027s not confusion and we\u0027d like to be able to automatically rap lines so that you can write your example in one nice legitimate piece of code and give it to a tool that will wrap it but we also want to support creative people who\u0027d like to do the rats themselves and using indentation and we also want to support Native character escape characters so roll on what we\u0027ve done since last time at ITF 102 we were at zero six of Kent\u0027s individual draft wrote these slides at zero eight which was the version that was adopted what we\u0027ve changed we clarified the scope a little bit it used to say internet drafts and of course it should apply to rfcs as well and we\u0027ve clarified that the primary intent is for formatting examples and code you might use it for other things but I think if you started to use it for tables and for real figures you would cause confusion we we clarified that we are coding in Pascal and not in C so the columns count from one this is caused us immense stress we changed the header line format it used to be it used the natural format of the header line used to instruct you how to wrap by the length of that line and that was getting a little confusing so we\u0027ve gone to an explicit value for that we\u0027ve moved to a a slash at the end of the line and a slash at the start of the rap line which I think was Rob\u0027s idea so thank you and that that\u0027s quite nice and the chairs I\u0027m working out how to do the slides this is cool remember we only have hands hey if I really know we did figure out how to go full screen they can make it out I\u0027ve only had a working group secretary to do it all for you what else did we do oh we clarified tabs we added some text to separate the manual and automated unfolding we put in a forward reference to XML to RFC version three because that\u0027s got a source code tag as well as the artwork tag that we currently used and we beefed up the examples so that the current solution is pretty simple when you fold automatically you get to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:42",
    "text": "the line length that you want you insert backslash newline and a backslash as a start of the next line so automatically unfolding is really easy you get to the line end of the line find a backslash find a backslash on the start of the next line and you can just strip out the characters and off you go because somebody might have done automatic in certain manual indentation you also strip out any white space that you find before the continuation backslash there are tricky cases that that arise and what we have said is that if you\u0027re doing automatic folding and you\u0027ve come across a tricky case it is best just to throw an error and say I can\u0027t fold this rather than we make this solution really complicated and handle all of those cases tabs as I said we\u0027ve clarified this vertical tabs probably will never see them but if we do we fail to unfold to fail to auto fold there was lots and lots of dis about what to do with horizontal tabs and we ended up with this text which basically says note that you\u0027re not supposed to put tabs in artwork and source code anyway and when you\u0027re automatically folding usually you must either convert the tab into spaces or throw an error we said we\u0027ve stated there other use cases are not out of scope so clearly we\u0027re net mod we worked on on young stuff there probably are other use cases where it\u0027s useful or to all sorts of code like things and we we do not rule them out and we hope that we are applicable to them but our focus is clearly within the working group we have a few small open questions some of the examples I think are a bit clunky but that if that\u0027s the biggest problem we have where we\u0027re doing just fine and the authors will work to polish them I have a question there\u0027s a scripting in the appendix sound and I believe that somebody\u0027s pointed out an issue to you Kent so in result it\u0027s been resolved well there you go Kent is so efficient the precise format of the header line might need looking at but it\u0027s that\u0027s again a really trivial thing we had some discussion about how to tell an auto forwarding tour how to wrap and currently we we default at 69 and we have a minus C flag that allows you to set a different value I think I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:44",
    "text": "we\u0027re probably happy with that but we just want to check at the moment if you were Auto folding you would do no indent at all we could add a flag that also tells you how to indent if anybody\u0027s got a strong feeling on that we might otherwise not and we possibly need to talk more to the XML to RFC version 3 team so yeah the poll ended we got adopted we need to tidy and polish the authors think that we\u0027ve been around this loop long enough and actually we\u0027d probably move forward to a working group last call pretty fast so I\u0027d encourage you all to be looking at it now so we can get it right before that I proposed that we should bounce this off some of the other working groups that we know do a lot of Yang just so that they\u0027re all aware of what\u0027s happening since they\u0027re the people that write young models perhaps their input would be handy Robert Robertson Cisco so one question I have is you have a mark at the beginning of the folder data to say the photo that is following there\u0027s no marker at the end of the folded data so how does that all know when it finishes where it\u0027s gonna finish is that obvious well so yes and no so when you when you hit a full deed not good point yeah so yeah in the source of course you\u0027d hit the end of the artwork or sauce carry tagged so yeah that would be done but yeah that\u0027s a good point actually when you don\u0027t want to plow on trying to unfold all the because you might have blank lines and they don\u0027t know in the actual data so don\u0027t use black lines the two stops I think you might need it can\u0027t as a contributor and co-author but we we kept that explicitly out of scope the framing of when the end of the artwork is we took it out of scope for this it was discussed in the list how does it work well if it\u0027s the xml-based if you\u0027re purchasing XML you can just extract the so Ken no he\u0027s talking about the finished document so you\u0027ve got a text file in front of you yeah angles you\u0027re you\u0027re trying to work out how to unfold I know there\u0027s two answers if you\u0027re looking at plain text there\u0027s one answer we there which is that we don\u0027t support it and we took a scope if you\u0027re looking at the XML you can extract the netted directly to the that doesn\u0027t make sense so you can\u0027t unfold it\u0027s in a text humans I\u0027m holding doesn\u0027t work that doesn\u0027t matter but it\u0027s not our problem self it\u0027s a different problem there are other artworks that are not folded and they also don\u0027t have InDesign one taxes it\u0027s not this problem okay yeah so I think there\u0027s a there\u0027s a place here where the some intersects with how the ITF sees text which is text "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:45",
    "text": "is able in in the in the modern structure text is rendered output so it\u0027s not so much that um text exists as the a structure for it for anything beyond the convenience of the reader right and you actually sort of have to reach back towards the thing that actually has the structure in it which is not the text document to to to imply anything other than that this is rendered output so I agree with robe and disagree with to the three chairs when I\u0027m reading the text file I reached the thing that says what you now have is wrapped text and I and this is how you interpret the slashes and then I get to the end of that piece of wrapped text and I\u0027m in normal text and I counter some slashes I will interpret that to mean that I have to in that that it has been folded and so if I was a chair at this point I\u0027d say let\u0027s take this to the list you have three minutes more to talk on you don\u0027t want to hear me talk for three minutes more Kent as a concealer just to add to that in XML to RFC v3 if you use the source code tag it will automatically insert the code begins code ends framing around our work that\u0027s rendered in plain text format so again this draft doesn\u0027t need to add any additional framing for the end of artwork so certainly the the begin the begin code end code would handle the case weirdo get it is this inviscid as you said this is a good topic for the list I think it\u0027s a very reasonable comment and clearly we have some differences of opinion that we\u0027ll explore and see if we can get to some consensus and and then agree that Kent is wrong but can I just give one other example where this came up was I\u0027ve quite eyes but to use this for the tree output effects of the Yankee output and not necessarily generator automatically I have pie airing or p.m. when it generates it bill to put this stuff in to wrap the lines and again there you wouldn\u0027t have the source code encode normally just put those snippets in inline effectively so I\u0027m another case where it helped so next Alex waits oh hello everybody so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:54",
    "text": "this concerns the comparison of an MVA dinosaur\u0027s draft this is also a draft that went from that since last IDF has been adopted with the working group draft we\u0027ve only very minor updates on this so again missing just as a recap this defines an RPC that allows to compare an MVA data source to report only the differences without meaning to about the entire data source and yeah we just posted the the the working group version of this which basing is pretty much pretty posting up your individual and crap there one of the items that was discussed on the list they are not yet reflected on the draft is to add support for the possibility of different encoding schemes use different encodings to report back the differences and basically the agreement is that there will essentially be a leak that will allow for specify which encoding it is to be used so just as a sorry christian what do you mean by an encoding just chase some XML or just the difficile format the dip format so it\u0027s all the deform and gets reported back because I mean busy the the thing is a is a yang model a yang our pcs are really basically whichever whatever that contrast um you use that suggests in order to avoid confusion to use another word than encoding because this is written some way and actually I would also support in the future may be developing some like more more interesting format of the diff which is something what can suggested I believe in the mailing list because in some cases what you have here the yang edge it can help you to transform some data into something else but for example if a user wants if a client needs to decide whether to use the original version or the new version and maybe switch between them then it\u0027s this is pretty much useless so we get to it in a moment actually on the different point but clearly the first item is basically to allow to have different possible incoming that\u0027s the first thing and then the second one is that you which one off basically manatee mandated essentially in this trap we get to this in one moment so if we can just be further for other questions until these as chair generally I try to suggest that we avoid options that are not strictly necessary or have a strong use case so if the problem is is that as a lot I was talking about we have a format that\u0027s not really suitable for our general use cases then we should fix that if the problem is is that we really have different options and we want to allow "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:54",
    "text": "for that than sure different types is fine but we should make sure we have a strong use case for different options because if if we really have these options that leads to interoperability issues we have one implementation that does one thing and other implications does another and if one\u0027s the client wants a server they can\u0027t talk to each other so we only want to go to those that option if it is a strong justification for it so that\u0027s a crux of dishes are actually let me just jump forward before going back in since we are just on this say sure so basically right now or the ref specifies is used is to use the nth moment essentially as this but this does not include values from both data stores which would however sometimes be useful why there\u0027s a basic issue that was raised on the on the list and then therefore he won in addition to just support you option to have your own could add a new form provider format there\u0027s a quick but they should be an additional format we define there are basically two suggestions and I guess the first one was to define additional format that is not based on yang patch if such an addition format is defined of course they have some additional follow-on question that will need to be answered subsequently namely which form it should be the default if any but because we will have gang patch presumably and this and is their format that is mandatory to implement and facing again this the whole issue about inter probability versus flexibility and implementation costs it comes into play here with this with regard to that to to that argument and of course the question also well of this format opening should be part of this draft so then was the first suggestion since then it was also a second suggestion to simply basically actually augment basically augment the yang patch edit list with an old value any data and essentially address the fall butthey having a better yang patch format if you will and then use this simply as a one that is being defined in this trap here and be providing the augmentations there this does appear to be the preferable solution but obviously that is something that that we need to discuss this very basic display the reason I say it may be the preferable solution is because it ties very well with the existing yang patch and because it avoids having multiple formats and support to find it as this drought but anyway there\u0027s this one thing where what we should get some feedback comments and yeah I can\u0027t as a contributor sure I\u0027d say it\u0027s preferable and II threw it out as the suggestion to make you know how we could send yang patching and I said that it was on the path towards another direction that we might want to go towards but otherwise I don\u0027t think we really had any sort of important group consensus around that and then as chaired sort of echoing what Lou said or building apartment I think the motivation for the previous issue supporting multiple formats Phil\u0027s motivation for that when he posted to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:56",
    "text": "list was because he perceived that the current format wasn\u0027t really a deaf it was like what Lada just said it was actually just transforming from one to the other yes and what were their dips yes yeah and so Phil\u0027s was defensively thinking that well this means we\u0027ll have to do something later on so that\u0027s my lesson sure we have the abilities or multiple but to lose point if we actually pick the right thing now we don\u0027t have to have multiple the first issue disappears completely you can just do the right thing now and so for this opportunity this is a third case though maybe knows a responder that yeah that we would have to define multiple formats in this trap of course the question would still be we might still maintain keep the hook that would allow somebody to we could define just one format here in this draft and there\u0027s baby the one that mandatory but keep the hook it allows somebody to find their own additional provider from it if they wanted to do with this additional leap the bus that was discussed actually on this one maybe you can just very briefly go to the previous slide that which maybe shows the the model structure and/or the format string that was discussed this is basically whoops sorry this thing in red there Betty this this little format leaf that would basically guide this up there okay cantaloup you\u0027re making no finish your point okay all right anyway so that\u0027s I think this is where we are at this is really basically the the main issue that needs resolving at this point other than that I think baby what is in the graph it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s fairly straightforward it\u0027s not a it\u0027s not a big draft and obviously yeah I think having Tilly actually having one format and not a selection of formats is I would also the least thing is clearly preferable because we want to achieve interoperability with this value again I would say there are some advantages to really permitting different formats one is that this work can be can be delivered at least with some way of doing this death which already exists otherwise you probably have to wait until this mule death format will have been developed which which can take some time I guess and second thing is that we may not get the new D format right just immediately and then there might be people that develop a smarter format later and then it can be just exchange for it so that\u0027sthat\u0027s I would say more flexible and I don\u0027t see any problem if if T the format can be somehow signaled using some capability or some playlists and it should be it should be OK for for for both parts to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:56",
    "text": "agree on something ok can\u0027t as a contributor so I I agree with your second point actually if it you\u0027re right the DIF format we select may not be optimal and it\u0027s good to have a way to at least version right if we had versioning of the yang patching v1 which could be one version v2 could be that\u0027s a different way of doing it as opposed to just having one version that internally had an ability to select different format so I think having an out of being able to support a different version later it\u0027s a good idea for the first issue though that you raise I\u0027m just wondering about the urgency of this say I do question that I mean I understand that nmda came out and it\u0027s a good idea to have a spiffing support but is there really urgent see that this matters if we did if we\u0027re delayed by an extra quarter or two I mean can anyone speak to this oh yeah we have been discussing some in in relation to my previous draft about West Conference actions we have been discussing some kaitos staging repository and this before Matt ordered if this capability would be useful for this so of course this saying that after big a store is still sort of remote thing at the moment but I don\u0027t know so are you suggesting that this draft is is written without any any any concrete option for specifying that but if or all that we just right away this work until the the diff format is develop III I think it can take several years maybe two because people will have different which is of course we know this and everybody knows what a diff is so I expect quite heated discussions and so on in in the plain UNIX diff we have several different formats that can be somehow regulated in this as well so I\u0027m a bit afraid afraid it can take a long time so at least we can do some some work and if we have some pluggable before mat then we can work on that later and still have something so so I heard what I heard Kent suggests is that we try to come up with the right format and then if that seems to be taking too long or we can\u0027t reach agreement then fall back to what\u0027s what we have available if maybe I read a little too much into what you were saying but I think that\u0027s a sensible course is let\u0027s try to do the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:58",
    "text": "optimal the optimal is a single solution let\u0027s try that and if we can\u0027t get there then fall back I would personally with chair have any hat I would be opposed to saying that here\u0027s this one mandatory format but you can do whatever you want late I would say here\u0027s this one mandatory format and that\u0027s it because we already have a way of extending models there\u0027s augmentations if we come out and find something better we find another one that could be done that extension can be done as an augmentation but I think we should start out with one format whatever that one format is if we can if we can define what we agree as a group would be a right format let\u0027s use that one if we can\u0027t let\u0027s use patch but let\u0027s at least try to get the right one yes so shall we set a deadline on how long it can take to develop this format and if we don\u0027t succeed and me so the backup to do this because I think it can still take quite so according to the authors and the working group don\u0027t come up with a proposal we\u0027ll have our answer that it creates patch if the authors come forward to the pros Oh or someone in the working group it\u0027s a working group document anyone can contribute if we come up with a proposal and we have some good agreement on it it could be very quick but we really have to see what the what kind of contributions we get in and yeah we could revisit it in in one if\u0027 and maybe at the next IETF we have a great solution a great proposal that we\u0027re all happy with or maybe it\u0027s obvious that we have to stick with patch can\u0027t as a computer or actually as chair sorry I\u0027m just adding on to that I think there\u0027s a caveat that there has to be good-faith effort right they just didn\u0027t run out the clock I mean there\u0027s you know certain amount of time until 104 I mean actually has to be discussions on list if there\u0027s no discussions and we get to 104 and we\u0027re just having the same you know that\u0027s not fair right yeah Joel yeagley um I mean it\u0027s sounds like we have a milestone but like all milestones it\u0027s essentially aspirational and if it looks like we\u0027re not actually on the way to achieving it then we probably need to throw it out and do something else at that point great I think I think that\u0027s reasonable if we got great proposals between now I\u0027m 104 we\u0027ll see where we are with that if we don\u0027t we\u0027ll probably go down the path of just using so Rashad Cisco question to do when you were saying we find the ideal format if we do do we still go with the format leaf or you saying we do the augment later on if needed if there\u0027s a better format I\u0027m not a big fan of we in a standard putting a opening the door for a future option when we don\u0027t know what that future option is if we if we knew "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:59",
    "text": "we had the future option and/or multiple formats and we think that we need it we have a good use case absolutely do it but if we don\u0027t if we if we don\u0027t they can worry about it later we build there are mechanisms so they\u0027re extensible so we can do that extending life so you just look there so you\u0027re basically asking the same theory that the earlier suggestion to add this format leap we should essentially remove that I would miss this this decided in here on this thing so baby we\u0027ve be bidding just go back on Muffy I think you should have one format what the one format is we have to work through it one moment and not the extension of Hercules all right okay correct now there\u0027s all sorts of back you know alternatives that may come up when we find that we really do need multiple formats that group says absolutely need them will support that there\u0027s alternate paths we can head down we have to see where we go and what kind of contributions we get Robinson Cisco I don\u0027t talk about formats at all I\u0027m I would like you to maybe add in filtering by origin metadata as one things you could filter on and the specific use case that I\u0027m concerned about is that the as its described now that big he provide is a raw diff between two dates stores filtered by the schema between those two data source but if you had for example configurations coming in dynamically DHCP addresses that sort of thing then they\u0027ll always flag up as being a difference that you may not be interested in you may actually be wanting to know is what a might of the configuration have I put in by running or intended hasn\u0027t been applied so I think if you filter by origin metadata may then they\u0027ll talk to that question or at least look B at answer that question of what configuration I put in is not yet been implied because that might be what you\u0027re looking for okay yeah there was actually the item was one of the most motivating items back to C so I could even different dozens of also arise from okay yeah point by taking any other comments so just clarify say I wasn\u0027t requested so I\u0027m not asking for the origin mixed data and the output to know where the changes come from I\u0027m asking you on the input to say I don\u0027t see these changes I don\u0027t see the differences that are due to learned configuration I wanted to see ones that come from intended so so like a filtering program to rather than necessary now for one but that might be different question as well all right Kent as a contributor I think the output format should include a version number so that if we will do ever version the the patch format I\u0027m sorry at the diff format that and someone were to obtain it out of a tab and they know which version of the dip formatted is looking the version number they had version of the format itself yeah why would we need it if we if you mandate if you say one format is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:59",
    "text": "mandatory I don\u0027t and we don\u0027t be another coding a hook to a tool to extend this avoid I don\u0027t understand why we would require that we can take this to this okay thank you thanks okay good so this next okay then I can just say yeah okay so the next thing is in update this video not a working group draft but I guess maybe moving to the individual drafts now and this concerns the smart filters for push updates I can title is probably a lot of problem statement it is not filter for push updates this we posted an update to this draft is one of the dress which have been somewhat basically in a little bit dormant stage by the way we\u0027re working through the yang push sweet subscribe notification support tool to get to but as those obviously nearing the completion it\u0027s time to do like taking up some of this other variant so again as a as a recap and gang push we provide filters that allow clients to select which nodes so to subscribe tool however the filtering that is based on values of those objects is currently not covered in yang push however many of monitoring applications are actually based on observing values so they would want to know points okay I\u0027m interested in this only if one since it is in a certain range or above a certain threshold and so forth the reason to not include filtering based on values and yang Bush was we did not want to stretch implementation complexity further and push is already a fairly big draft so we felt that putting these types of advanced capabilities in there would yeah we\u0027re busy unduly overboard this or this especially follow-up follow-up verb also actually when going into values one comes actually in looking at the use case there is also clear that you get very quickly actually on a path that leads you to also requiring potentially state because one points me the regards to to lose being interested in in values above a certain range between this leads very this leads down the path of what supporting the fish or crossing regards but you would want to be notified once the threshold has been breached and then you don\u0027t want to keep getting notified you want to only get notified perhaps if it falls below out of all and i still has the reasons threshold which again would require you to maintain state and again this would add complexity anyway so so there is a gap if you want to have this type of functionality and this map filters drop basically it tries to address this gap in terms of updates so as mentioned busy the graph has been there for some time but basically one thing that we did add actually pretty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "close to general Walker who actually added this part is to define the first set of filters those are value filters that compare compare objects against the using an operator so greater than great listen and so forth and as many of the filter is then to push the update of an object only busy if the value of Beijing matches the comparison so busy if it passes the filter it\u0027s not yet if spread short crossing alert in the sense that there\u0027s no state it doesn\u0027t maintain if you have the next push update in the next period and it matches and again the third cost you would pity we send we send this update and you don\u0027t have it at all or any things of that nature so in terms of basically taxonomy that we also defined earlier basically the the filter that has been defined now I has been added this between the first item the first bullet I can filter based on and based on values and the sake for filters aggregates of time of the other items and so forth those are basically still TBD so in terms of next steps yeah but he so clearly be the so this is the very first sir printers we want to grow the supported filter pipe Ubuntu and stay also stateful filters specifically could deal with the pressure of motion alerts so the other type of reporting okay also the high water no watermarks and again assess interest of the working group that we should greatly go ahead to define a solution Falls problem there was interest in the past again given the yang focus on yang push getting those things out we waited there a little bit but keep in the state of readiness now it may be time to take this up again and perhaps once these other drafts have gone through the shepherding reviews and I nice G then maybe at that point in time we may also ask for adoption absolutely comments yes Michael from Holly okay I have real document and I think I have several question for sizing this is useful but I do you think you need to define some more generic method to support different mechanism not just a limited you know young push that maybe it\u0027s more useful you mean I mean different some generic master to force a smart filter well so I think baby well I guess for it comes what you could go Falls really the two categories one thing basically where you have updates and you want to do something based on the values of those things so you\u0027re not and I think that one fits actually very naturally with yang Porsche it is an additional capability that builds on top of that however your point a key thing where your point comes in is when you are not just filtering in terms of passing something or or blocking something which is what a filter does but potentially aggregating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:02",
    "text": "this information to more things and clearly busy there were also the question okay should we have things that that define in average sure or or that that sum up things across a across the list it\u0027s about there are crazy each really item that you could take there those things go actually a little bit beyond yang portion yeah I would agree that is actually one one question to whether those things should be defined here and perhaps not because one thing that is exactly in in in gray and in sntp MIPS there was this concept of Arman many people here will remember solve Bailey that would not be a substitution of Arman alright somebody in Arman you would have busy these these aggregates the top ten lists whatever it\u0027s about you you could define of different things so we would not go they do that direction that would go so for those types of filters or pre-processing it\u0027s of all about have you there would be outside the scope of this left hey you mean you\u0027d like the most clear scope okay another thing okay I think me there\u0027s some kind of work we proposed even man German the unit module and the way also some blog a maybe similar to his walks and to find some filters and reference some males definition and I think maybe we can discuss more and more together and maybe improve each other and church fun summer 800 each other okay so I think you have some slides on a related and you\u0027re actually up next yeah maybe you\u0027re setting yourself up and so maybe you\u0027d be good to switch over to that and you can talk to not only with the slides you have prepared about but how you might generalize them to support this case as well and then we have another document after that that also might be related depending on where the authors want to take it so it seems like it might be to consolidate discussions before we move on to that let\u0027s just see how many people in the room have read this draft the current draft so if you\u0027ve read this draft so that that\u0027s a few but you know not not a huge amount we\u0027ll ask the same thing of the next two drafts Michael don\u0027t go away if it\u0027s quick ask if not we\u0027d like to maybe have more discussion once we\u0027ve heard the next two drafts I just guess it\u0027s a couple quick comments I don\u0027t know so one of them means I quite like this draft I like the idea of filtering the in a stateless way and for the stateful filters I wonder where those things aren\u0027t better putting into the data model directly and handled separately I think you gave some examples other cases like Arman for example I think for the things are those matter maybes best for that into the data model that having generic mechanism the last one is I wonder whether if this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "does progress whether it should be done in net model Netcom because that\u0027s where the other drafts are well I think as author of the Netcom camera or notification capabilities drafts I was wondering your idea is that let\u0027s say someone who implements these filters will they implement it for everything or will they implement it for everything that supports push change or where is the subset of that well so the well the should we go into the cave okay you know your question basing does it impact the capabilities okay I\u0027m not sure I think this is I mean if you mule is really busy is an additional filter that you would apply on top of yang portion this is bathing in where this is position now and you would you would basically apply the filter to the output from the yang push and maintain the things on that face off from from that perspective it should be applicable across all so buddy having differentiated capabilities to say I support the filter for object a but not for a big B I don\u0027t think that it would be required here maybe we go into some of the stateful stuff might be different sorry about some people the stateless filters also busy the first super filter is defined now I would think this is you know that would just be generally applicable let\u0027s pick this up on the list all right [Music] good morning working groups tasted Michael from Hawaii and today I want to introduce John Titor model for even amendment ok why we want to propose this document is because we want to support some of provide some maximum to support closed loop at make auto mission management of data collection and Network automation our dealers to monitoring young instance data and if this incident data have medicine configured condition and then it can trigger some action for example a single notification out you know do some reconfiguration so he proposes document and defined under the model for an abstract even measurement and provided ability to help user to monitoring the young instant data to define design the condition to the furnace and treat a triggered action ok this riser prior to water our it means a provide what is on he went for my wheel okay the even here\u0027s something just happened we mentioned interesting our triggers are by some use and are we also think the evens may be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:05",
    "text": "very large scope definition many scenes can be defined eyes event for example unfold or learn or some changing a network state or some network security security threat lock test so we\u0027re seeing maybe we can found the mechanism and help the user to automatic measurement says even and do corresponding action and here is even examination DiSanto and slider present several event for example if our some surveys want to be implemented and they need to set up some panel here we defined even like okay we set up at her colonel from a site a to site B and so the tacit may be okay here is a young instance at a node at a no-name is a to be and if this attano we set up successfully so it can trigger a confirm the action the action is okay we need to enable some function satellites are monitoring the tano\u0027s ATVs and this action may be also in will set off another event for example even be is to monitoring the section sir the tunnels lost faculty number and the tuck is okay this is a panels namely the ATP and monitor is his lost packets and if the lost packet number cause some earth protrude then it kinds may send a notification and also trigger another action locks out Sacre corresponding value for examples which have and another even maybe monitoring Kano\u0027s state and if the tanoda state the panel down it can send a notification to other toe to the current under customer okay say say just a no down and maybe trigger not a ones they even told him okay you need to do some active assembler over okay this right it shows our solution which defines its youngest module okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:06",
    "text": "this young male reversal have two three blocks it have even even it to to present even name and rent hard to distinguish different even and even type can easy extension and you can a piss on your interesting to define what kind of even are you interesting and you want to management and another a second block is a trigger they defined a set of triggers from condition such as frenetic trigger or some filters filters we based on the event young us or even need to borrow their conception of their of their triggers condition at the find some three candle filters such as existence if some young instance appears sin and trigger and maybe notification and sugar of recuperation and the bowling bowling nation its corresponding young incident data equal to some parameter of rush hood a twelve trigger codes upon the action and the thrush food threshold filter is help you to compare different and different value offer between this sample and previous sample if they detect if it crosses their hood it will trigger cause bonding action and the third part is action action and prizes three kind of action firstly can since the location and another you can do this election and do some reconfiguration walks and also it can read triggers another event it can help to do some closed loop automation closed-loop management here is some gap between evened document and previous walks of charge young push and here Sara table shows Awards difference between the young push and even even too young and the trigger condition Chris Young push how to condition for say is a product push and unchanged coach and here we found even the neighbor rate of answer kind of futures existent bowling attribute and the notification over there are two master can support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:06",
    "text": "certification and here our document also can support automatically reconfiguration and trigger another event the next start the next step would like to solicit more comments and import solution document okay all right thank you in the interest of time like to ask you to work with the other authors and see if there\u0027s ways to align your work and report back on on list yeah I know that some are more some drafts like alex is more focused on a particular problem but it may be that this type of approach is more encompassing and move in support boat yeah thank you can I make a quick comment please yeah so Zack so yeah one I I think basically this is a in terms of consolidating I think this is a very large driver especially the scope is larger so I think they complement each other right because one thing is clearly what you want to do on the events because the whole acting part the automation parlance of both I think that is clearly something that would be you know that is new in this draft that would not that should not go into any short but including an action of notification right so in yours was about notifications right your aunt is notification okay so to say if filter is all right and you guys can talk to each other and decide that you know what the suggestion is is utter you know it is not applicable and and come back and say that that\u0027s okay all right sure morning everyone my name\u0027s Tim pasa Allah who introduced this draft an MVA base event this a job that had to be around for a while that if the early was a presenting call for ties and it is based on discussing in nas meeting we are going to move this job to nano mode so here we give update of this job so this job that actually would define three an MB base event the first two event actually to indicate the start and end time of congregation that apply from intent and the third a event actually is to keep track of the in can apply conversion later that somehow convergent a that is not applied some company that it may be inspired from antenna so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:06",
    "text": "can actually to keep track of these intend apply the results if it is not applied we will actually give the reason and also we will give a list of object that is not applied so the change compared with the previous version actually we add two new event praise them the many nice discussion and we also do some polishing restructuring for this draft and we narrow down scope to focus on the MB specific event actually only cover the computer that is applied from intend also we consider federal handling case in our young model with number in some cases before is fair to apply the conversion from antenna we were actually capable warning report the their every formation using some some building block so this is the model where the model look-alikes actually very simple model actually we define the event event event notification the first line is intend supply start actually these we also you know carry some session information this is a session information inherited from the medical for session start that defined in obviously 6470 and for intend applied and we add additional information to report the completed status to indicate whether it is got a success or whether it is fair so we use the error option that we find in the rest come for specification that is actually a restaurant ITF - let\u0027s count young model and the most important part is an MBA in can apply the event notification this is actually we can leverage using a media foe and to detect which opportunities apply which actually is not applied and we can actually to reporter the every information for summer coverage is not apply from in n so here show the latest all the walking flow and also relate the pace events occurrence and we can see the five men call for basically random has got to be defining obviously 774 6470 and they can indicator the start time and end time o Network obsession so for the antenna by the start and intend applied and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:08",
    "text": "actually take a place between the Merkava confirm commit and letting have a session end so for the intend of line start actually almost sent at the same time as a confirm comedian so for the champion can apply actually can happen at the same time as the can be apply the end so for some issue where you have some outline of line this kind with the cursor actually is about whether we need any amenities in canopied start because the reason is actually in 10 apply studies sent almost as centum as a confirm comida you know so also ETA is very expensive to send a is a startup event message every time you do the commuted so we think maybe we have to option to address these the first option is you pretest the liberty optional and the turn off when it is no needed needed another opportunity chopped this event so this job there has been around for a while with singles go shit relax sociated feedback and that\u0027s it can\u0027t as a contributor can go back to the previous five yeah where does the intended applied event gets that is it is it after intended has been applied to operational means so that actually is a sin at the almost at the same time as a medical confirm to me no no I\u0027m not talking about intended place start yeah I\u0027m talking last one oh my intended a plight is that is that last one sent after it\u0027s been applied to operational yeah okay and to the question regarding in the usefulness of applied start event I guess it would be useful for any clients that are not the one that you know that\u0027s put the been initiated the commit yeah right okay yeah Rob Wilson Cisco so my one question is I don\u0027t know whether the apply to start is useful or not as I probably it\u0027s okay but it is another notification story provide that same information it\u0027s probably not worth sending to different notifications at the same time I didn\u0027t understand why there\u0027s two separate notifications for the completion of the event I was wondering whether you could just have your one the same intended applied and and also in the aim intended applied so do you need two notifications there do they come same time or they separate right now we actually separated we use the antenna star and to indicate the start and end time but the original proposal actually we think that we can use the one single event event notification to indicate at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:10",
    "text": "any time so yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s the water we design in this job in a corner table okay and I think it might be a might be more useful just have one this is this is the end of that configuration operation and the result is either it succeed or it\u0027s farallon\u0027s failed this is why it was not applying or something so merging those two might make more sense I think okay probably something say Thank You Kent again just quickly well I think the picture is probably little arrow uniquely needed with the arrow to another placement also the names may be misleading you could just simply call it intended updated and operational updated yeah right as the events yeah dad that make sense thank you yeah so again continue the discussion on the list well the technical discussion how many people would read the draft all right so a little more than the last one but not much I think we need a little more review on this to move it forward and I\u0027m not sure there\u0027s any commonality in this notification with other notifications I think a little too different yeah so yeah one more comment to this I have seen systems which have some kind of auto commit feature where big transaction will be break broken down to many small comet transactions transactions in this case sending so many notifications would be problematic so there month there is a need to be able to switch this feature off even yet supported or established filters Jason Stern can you go back to your flow diagram we\u0027d like to move to move that to the list just because stick that\u0027d be fair to the other presenters who includes who are the expectations okay thank you so the second way is the faculty for setting so this humor again actually we also moved Israel from their constituent and model everything is MD related also is transported in independent so that\u0027s so the goal this job actually we want to introduce a new measure to resettle the youngest Orion to the separately for the contents and that you realize these go actually we define when you a beast option we call that reset their stall in everything we define the factory data store it\u0027s actually actually this kind of optional data store so so reason why we introduced a new RPC overreaching actually we investigated all the existing medical protocol regime "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:10",
    "text": "already we have delete config and in this college engine I believe config economy we said the startup take stock but cannot reset their own intake installed for the discard changes you can copy the running biggest or contents into the candidate but actually it cannot be actually to reset the Canada guest or without the changes that the Iranian datastore so does the dynamic data store you cannot reset these dynamic data stores for rest confer actually also apply here you can always set reset yeah so the new RPC which we introduced here is we use these a visa to reset contents of target datastore to use the factory for setting actually we use the data so as the input at the parameter so when we were so so the messer we document as the factory contents that we have many ways actually the typical ways actually we can use running start Canada as the the contents of the factory if the factory datastore can be defined or exists but in some other way actually when to use a young instant data to document the contents of the factory datastore and that in some other cases maybe we can define a set of the modules that can be load loaded by the factory for example but the problem is the different vendor may not have given a solution so it\u0027s kind of improving in tradition specifically and know for also tenango datastore actually we like to set a chest empty so this is a new ticker store we introduced the we call the factory dated datastore and for this datastore actually is rated only so it cannot be changed by the nanocloud reskin for operation all say RI by the it need to be reset by the young server in provision specific Amana and it also actually is optional data store that means actually the reset the text or abuse it can be performed that can be revoked without this data stock and for the managing of reaching actually unlike the staff of datastore actually it cannot automatically program program Pro problem can automatically to any other data store also it is the static actually but in some cases you may paste on the hardware chain which based on the hardware availability and you may actually make me make some changes they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:10",
    "text": "should pay some comments from Yokohama least actually actually has come the way these with this text so these are Colonel status actually the chart move to the data mode actually the channel Manor is we restructure the document make it more solid and we also remove the nano comparability at anybody many discussion and we also add a class as the new consul and two minor open issue actually is how are they related or is that how they relate to the reporter actually for restart we already have system management module it defined the system restart we can reuse it so we also think I\u0027m it restarted is not in needed for reboot that we also believe is not needed it but if any folks single is important where you can actually can reconsider so we single team Java had sitting around for a while and had a lot of support on an engine is that we like to recall request the walking to last adoption that\u0027s all thank you listen Cisco so I was just discussing here the it might be useful to also talk about the copy config our pcs to find a net Kampf which you could potentially use as well to copy the contents either from factory datastore to running configuration which may may not mean that you don\u0027t want to have your art PC because you other reasons for wanting that be poor to this describe saying you can also use this mechanism most equivalent yeah we also hope we also actually talk about that if they were a little struggle be possibly move to them net metamodel we need new clean clean album negative transport independent that\u0027s why we remove the copy configure occupation but in the earlier version we didn\u0027t have a copy completion compartment expansion or for faculty people setting yeah why did need to be extended why doesn\u0027t it just work today you me just the review the existing copy configure yeah so do you what do you suggest you you you want to document these in this yeah yes I why I suggest scoffing copy config just works okay copy configures I remember doesn\u0027t work because they\u0027re the target is a choice Dorsey I need extended and we wanted to have reset our datastore because we want this to work even without an MBA the once you have written said datastore there\u0027s really no need yes we should describe that copy configure is not updated because we don\u0027t see the need I don\u0027t think we need there is me to include it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:10",
    "text": "I can\u0027t as a contributor the RPC that you find reset factory there\u0027s worse at it and just want to I think the draft should be clear that that\u0027s different than resetting the device to factory default yeah because there\u0027s more things that could change whenever you setting a device to factory people yeah yeah okay yeah how many are interested in this topic at all that\u0027s a that\u0027s a reasonable number how do you know have read this draft it\u0027s also a reasonable number less but a reasonable number how many people think we should adopt this document as the foundation as the starting point for our work in this area and keep in mind that adoption is the starting point not the ending point so changes are possible that\u0027s that\u0027s a very good number so that\u0027s about the same number as the people who have read it any strong objections and none okay hi so I\u0027m William not tinder and I\u0027d just want to give an update on what we\u0027re doing with some yang work in the broadband forum I think I last spoke at the Prague meeting so it\u0027s just an update really um so just to quick outline I won\u0027t go through that those are the things I\u0027d like to talk about briefly moving onto the next slide sorry can I move this down a little bit or don\u0027t know know the previous one sorry that one yeah okay so the emphasis what do we work on so we work on addressing BBF requirements you know that\u0027s that\u0027s the thing that drives us you know we\u0027re not trying to provide a general solution for the whole world but of course we\u0027re trying to make but we are trying to make what we use what we provide them generally applicable you know in the context of particularly the access network so that\u0027s a little bit of a contrast between us and what I might call a core sto the tones of Technology and wants to apply some provide a solution that will be used absolutely everywhere for all applications it\u0027s particularly as I said the access network the requirements that drive our models come from I guess the key standards are are those documents that I mentioned there and also particularly now there\u0027s this work called broadband access abstraction which Tim Care is very involved in is producing also new requirements but for young models so we define stuff to address what we\u0027ve defined and we also to find stuff to address what other organizations have defined but where they\u0027re not interested in defining the model so for example "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:11",
    "text": "part of our models are actually for itu-t standards how do we work well we like to important augment other organisations yang for example ITF interfaces is definitely the core and ITF interfaces in Hardware definitely the core of our models but sometimes we can\u0027t do that there\u0027s no standard yang or else there isn\u0027t and of young but it\u0027s for some reason we can\u0027t use it perhaps some it\u0027s too much for a big lump there aren\u0027t enough optional features it would too much we have to be taken on board for it to be used or maybe there is sort of another example of the same thing maybe some nodes are mandatory with that adjust not mandatory at least for our applications or shouldn\u0027t be mandatory you know in our opinion so if that happens then you know not not brought broadband forum because broadband forum you know can\u0027t work directly in another organization but our members may well work directly in other organizations so for example the two main examples of that in IETF at the moment are contributing to the IETF alarms work we have a lot of alarm requirements and several of our members have been very active in in that work which is happening in C camp and is nearing last call and also there\u0027s some requirements for IP fix that we have across several of our standards and we feel there\u0027s need for new IP fix models and so some of our members have put in an individual submission for that which again I mentioned a little bit more detail at this afternoon\u0027s ops area session there\u0027s a last resort we might address our requirements internally but as I say that is a last resort okay I won\u0027t go through this in detail but that\u0027s just a couple of slides showing our active projects and on the rides in the status you can see which ones have been published and I\u0027m not those hieroglyphics of a1 a2 and so on they\u0027re just different amendments that\u0027s just to show that there have been several different versions of some of those the next slide just again I won\u0027t go through but some shows roughly what\u0027s on some of the main things that are covered by the models in those different projects moving on to publication so we have a release registry that lists all of our published software which includes all of the draft and standard yang all the Yang is published to a public github repository a BB f1 but it\u0027s also in the young models young repository as a sub-module and it\u0027s also all in the young catalog so we\u0027re really trying to make this available and such a you know act as a good member of the community what are our external dependencies for as a matter of policy whenever possible all of our modules must use standard external modules typically as a starting point of building as the base to be augmented and that means not that that means you know understanding how they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:12",
    "text": "supposed to be used and using them in the letter and the spirit of how they\u0027re intended to be used there are the the published ITF modules that were already dependent on nothing surprising there I think abroad you mentioned the alarms and and they need to say anything more about that on best practices we have our own best practices document which is essentially an extension of eighty four oh seven we will incorporate aspects of other stos as we become dependent on them I mean our Triple E is going to be the next one but we\u0027re not yeah none of our modules are yet directly dependent on any anything other than IETF externally I mean intend to make these guidelines public we\u0027ll publish them virus I took github pages on that same repository I yang repository but that hasn\u0027t happened yet so final slide but you might be interested to know what we\u0027re doing about an MVA so we\u0027re still discussing it of course the real world many of our models were defined and published before it came along and we can\u0027t we can\u0027t control when people are going to switch when implementers again a switch so we do have to complete can continue to support both nmda and non MVA I mean it\u0027s a similar situation to what happens internally within ITF of course so the final sort of outer bullet sort of non-binding sneak preview of some of our thinking firstly this might seem controversial but we feel we still need to stick with the non MDA ITF interfaces as our as our as US or a base even though we know there is the I forget the number the updated eighty four hundred and something we know we are aware of that for the ITF hardware well it was only over a draft that was non MDA so we don\u0027t have a choice there so obviously we\u0027ve switched already to referencing the hard we actually deferred publishing some of our modules until the RSC was out so as to avoid referencing a draft and as and if and when we update our modules that are currently using 7223 and also four modules that are what we call standalone meaning modules that we define which are not dependent on on ITF interfaces variety of hardware then we will where for example when when we\u0027re updating a module that\u0027s dependent on the interfaces we will follow or we think will follow the same ITF guidance of defining a separate state module but when their modules that are standalone then we\u0027re still not quite sure what we\u0027ll do we could define a deprecated state tree but we\u0027re a little bit more inclined not to have two trees but just put augmentations straight into the single tree where where we we see the need of it in order to support some non mga usage you know to mean in order to support implementations that don\u0027t yet support an MDA okay any questions you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:22",
    "text": "gonna have one but you walked away thank you very much appreciate the update okay so we\u0027ll be this at the end of the first session my first net non session we have a second one on Thursday in the afternoon second slot look forward to seeing you there and thank you [Music] you "
  }
]