[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:25",
    "text": "E To your colleagues, try and keep the conversations in personal We're trying to get work done here. Failing, but trying to get work done here. Alright. So you'll note in the chat room, please join us in the note pads so that you can add your notes and help out with Steven, who generously volunteered Begrudgingly was volunteered. To be the official notetaker But, he does have to jump out toward the end. So please help out there. And Well, I'll let Russ introduce the agenda. So Pete and I have been struggling to figure out how to make progress. And we agree that we don't understand the line at least between the two of us. Between what an RSW g policy, that goes into a a document in produced by this group versus something that is an RPC practice and it is if they are discretion, what they do or don't do. So We're having this hard time, We might be wrong, but we think that the discussion on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "We'll clear some of the log jam on what things we can come to ounces some out. So we would like to focus Today's hour on on termining Whether we have consensus on which thing belong in this group as discussions of policy. And which thing we are never gonna make a policy about because that's an RPC internal. Matter. So we think these three questions will guide us there not that these are, you know, magic quest in any way. These are ones that Pete and I brainstormed about. And we think that they will, help us understand where that line is or whether we have consensus on that line. Larks. Hi, Lars Zager. Let me make this harder for you. Oh, wonderful. Thank you. In in the sense that there's also policy things that are stream specific Yes. And there are RPC practice things that are too specific. And they might do the same things for all the streams, which might make them look like RSWG policy or RPC So so it's a little bit more dicey than that. Unfortunately, we we were trying to come up with the the line that would help us know what the focus are. I I so I don't want to derail this. So I think questions, your polls are still a good starting point. And I think an answer there might, naturally flow into answers for the other more complicated things. 6 We hope so. But you're correct. Robert, Robert Sparks. So, functionally, we've been having to answer these questions as we've been moving along while our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "RSWG was was getting underway. And we've been able to use without a great deal of pain. In discussions between the RPC, team that was reformed under the RPC called their PC advisory team, our pet, and the R Sab, when when the questions came up, things tended to fall out fairly naturally, and there wasn't a great deal of controversy about it. So I'm not really expecting that you're gonna discover that there's a lot of tension in this room? I would love that to be the case. We we were kinda hoping that these were all draw men kind of questions that that that we would suddenly collapse on obvious consensus about where these lines are But the discussion as it's been going on when we've gotten into the particulars of what people think on particular topics seem to be whipping back and forth across these lines. So I hope you're right. And I think that they necessarily will continue to do so, and that these are places where, it's going to be judgment at the time. And I don't I I caution you to avoid hoping the there is an output of this exercise that is a statement that tells everybody where that line is because this is very definitely going to turn out being the you know it when you see it kind of judgment calls. You might be right, but if we can at least have a similar mental model from this discussion because it was pretty clear to Pete and I that we were not there on the interim. Go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Okay. Hi. In order. Is, the the XML, schema that author adjust changes is the RPC required to post new XML a published RPC. For published RFC. Required is too strong. May, may be appropriate. Right. May May. Yeah. So may be. It's as as Robert said, this falls out as a sense of pragmatics. I've seen the postal code break myself firsthand, on new stuff, I don't as a neither as an individual nor as a stream member, I don't don't object to it in principle so long as appropriate safeguards are, take place such that that's the only stuff that's touched. In the in the old documents. That doesn't that's I think the pragmatic view. Rate if if if if we if we cause things that are to be to be redone The rest of the document as as a result, that gets a little grayer. So goes back to what Robert says. Some judgment needs to be put into place. So these things have to be handled on the case by case basis, which brings me to number 2, an error in the XML or, RFC 9876 is discovered. The RPC required to edit the XML file. I think this was answered at least by me. I don't know. And and I think the there were other people who agreed with me on this point, as to what that means, if it's an eratum, The answer is clearly no. If it is an error in the production process, or was if it's if it was an error in the production process of RFC 90 to 9876, particularly after everybody agreed This is what we expect the output to be then the answer is clearly yes. Yeah. Well,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "I would say yes. Required is almost too strong, but a a good should seems like a like a an appropriate thing. And then a new XML tool version is released. And the tool and the tool produces the different layout for table 1 and RFC 9876. I thought there was consensus. That the RPC May. Post, new publication formats for it. RFC 9876. But, again, that is a It it it it it it is not only a judgment call, but there's a there's a lot of issues that will have to be sorted between the RPC the LLC in terms of the resources required to even accomplish that they're even structured to do it. So it's possible to to accomplish anything's upon possible to accomplish in this space, with whatever amount of money we wanna devote to it, but we should also be recognizing that some things are harder than others. And Some things are worth it and some things are not. Can't elate before you step away So What I think I heard you say was Questions of the sort in one are not policy for this group. They are more about practice, same with 3, but something like 2, is gonna require a policy of this group. That approximately I don't think we need to go to policy in this group for it, even because I think the RPC already does it. You know, if they if they discover the if if they discover a you know, a problem that that was clearly outside the intent of the publication process, I think it's okay to to to make whatever changes is necessary particularly for stuff recently released, it's stuff that's been out there for ages, I mean, I'm mostly okay with that as long as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "it's clear what the intent was. Now sometimes the intent isn't known, and that's where things get hairy. So even that number 2 needs a judgment call. Thank you. That that was, insightful. I am and I'm sure we're about to hear disagreement because I'm sure that Julian voiced a very different view on the inner. Gathers. Yeah. Jay, go ahead. Thank you, Jay Daley. Before I, get into this, I like to hear from you too as to the use of the word required, a very specific word, and I wonder if you just elaborate a little bit more on choice of that work. had a d a different formulation that didn't use the word We And we thought putting this word in front of the group now would spark the kinds of comments that Elliott was making. And that we Might At the end of this, change the questions in a way that lends it That we would put the more appropriate word that represented can census. Right? That's what we're really hoping to achieve. And I I I don't object to the use of the word. I think, it does get to the heart of disagreements, but that is between sanctions. We wanted to know where people are. No. I've Yes. So I I I've I've sent a, an email article. It's a very brief summary of what I think about things. So, days, just get into this a little bit more, if you don't mind. So in number 1, there are three cases here. Case number 1 is where we deliberately intentionally want to retrospectively change it, which is what, the change we're talking about that John has talked about. So, yes, they were correct. So the author address format line. You change the number. To is where we change it, but we still allow the old grammar, Yep. Okay. And in that case, no, we don't need to change it. Right? And stage"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "number 3, is where we do we don't allow the old grammar And in that case, my preference is no. We should not require them to change it. But we should be clear in the numbering of the grammar that we have issued a new grammar that breaks the old grammar. Okay? Which is something that has to happen at some time. So that sounds it. To number 1. So number 2, by an error in the XML. I took that specifically to mean that the XML does not validate. Alright? There might be some other case where it validates but is nonsensical that might also come into Right. That's the one I was I I'm Can you repeat that? Yeah. Yeah. So, Robert said, what about content areas that aren't that are editorial, very specific editor such as they've got the date of the document wrong. As well. Possibly. So, My view is that there is a set of things where, yes, they are required. To edit the XML. A non validating XML, for example, absolutely as one of are they required to post new publication formats? Now that depends on whether or not we're still going to embed the XML in the pdf. If we assume we're not because it seems as though, you know, there is consensus on that, and apologies if that that that your job to call not mine, but, the So I do not think they should be required to unless we know there is a content this is the essence of the day pretty much been tuned in where he believes we should be required to because is a computer person, not a publishing person. Hi, Julia. So number 3, Again, no, not required. Right, a new table format. But this is the one which is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "required really doesn't make much sense to me about this. And this is really where it's all about the May. And the rules about the may and the why, and that's where the complexity is in that day. Thank you. Thank you. Small. Paul Hoffman. So my views are simpler than Jay's. Okay. I think that it they are never required and that we have that the RSWG has a policy that says the RPC can choose on any of these, and it lists some of them as examples. So I do think we have to have a policy, but the policy is we trust the RPC. It's worked for us for the last 1000000000 years, I don't see anything that would you know, change that And, that lets us in the future if we say, oh, that didn't work. Then we can look for specific examples. But for all of these, The RPC should not be required. They are allowed to My guess is they will say we didn't my guess is they would would do all of these. But they might say, you know, we didn't do this one this time for this reason. And if people go, oh, no, you really should have, then they might still do it. There's a conversation that can go on over time. Just as there's been a conversation since day 1. As this goes along, if someone tools or RPC related would think about getting to the mic and and and saying whether you are okay with ideas like Yeah. Let's just leave this to the RPC. That would be helpful input. I can give an example the one that Robert brought up of the wrong date. That was on an r RFC that I wrote. That they had to change the date. Fine. John."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:09",
    "text": "Well, the good news is that I think the answer all these are obvious, but the bad news is that I think the answers to all these are obvious. And in particular, number 1 is an RSWG question. 2, and 3 are not. And the re and for number 1, I think it is a definitely a policy question whether we plan to keep All of our RFCs using the same XML grammar or or not. And if not, you know, at what rate do we plan to make incompatible changes? Mean, I think at this point, I think we have enough experience that it's worth making one round of incompatible changes and then going back and retrofitting stuff so we can save out the where we're we're gonna call it 3.1 or whatever. Is the grammar that we have been using because we just fixed it, and we will use for some significant period of time the week until we come up with enough changes to make a big jump 4 Okay. So I think so I I think So so wait a minute. I wanna Explore a path that you opened. A score a scab. You pick that. Whatever you wanna think of it. And that is the right now, We have the V2 and the V3 schemas, Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. But but you can't you have to really dig in to figure out which one you're looking at at the given moment. That's every no. I mean, you know, you know, it's it's it's No. you can tell from the if you start with the element. Point 1 and point 2 and point 3 with in we need a way to. Tag that very clearly. It's tagged now. Yeah. In the XML. We looked and couldn't find it. Ask us later. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's it's a no. It's alright. Thank you. Look, I'll dig into that. Yeah. So, anyway, you know, and and And I think the reason to fix the fix the postal and fix the name of the document, which is being Right. My thing is, yeah, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "I I feel strongly about postal. I believe Robert feels strongly about the document name. There's a few other little myths all can be changed mechanically. I mean, so I believe that the the the chances of changing the semantics, the document fix them are quite low, and we and I only wanna do this once. And then and then going forward, we're gonna say, okay. Not gonna make any incompatible changes until sometime when we've all retired into somebody else's job to come up with version 4. Right. Okay. For number 2, I don't think it's an interesting question. Because XML to RFC uses a standard library that validates the XML. And it would be an extraordinarily unlikely production failure for for for for invalid XML to go to to go through the production process. So this basically comes back to, like, Erada, And whatever the rules for IRADA are, They are with they are worth it. Yeah. Like, changing the date that's in Okay. For number 3, already have quite a lot of practice for this because XML Torres, the the tool has been evolving for a couple of years. And every time it evolves, the output formats change. And particularly for the pdfs, the output formats change a lot. And we re rented those early PDFs today. They would end up a lot shorter because the page breaks used to be extremely terrible, and they are now only sort of terrible. And so, and I think the answer and so far, we've said it's like, yeah, whatever that that they're good enough. I mean, there might be a point in which we say, you know, we've we've improved the rendering so much that it's worth rerendering, but I think that's entirely up entirely up up to the RPC, and we have the existing practice, which is The rent the the only times we have conduct contradicting myself slightly. There was one case where a bug in XML to RFC cut off the bottoms up some tables in the PDFs. Right. Okay. They re they rebranded those because ones were actively wrong. Okay. Sure to be, you know, when that, you know, and basically that was a bug that we fixed it. Being short of short of actively wrong. Think number. Yeah. Basically, Number 1 is policy. Number 2 is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "Erada. So it doesn't it's not really an an interesting question. And number 3 is we've already answered that question. It know, Okay. Thank you. Robert Alright. Robert Sparks. Jay poked briefly at why you chose the word required. And I hope I'm not going to not play nice with the intent of the the straw man that you put up here, It's clear, I think, to me that the what this is really picking at is who decides and when. Right? That's where where is the a thoricky, for making this decision? Is it something that's made ahead of time by this group, or is made, when encountered by, an operational group. And I think as has already been expressed, but I will re refrain it, We need policy when if we don't have policy the series is damaged. The users of the series can't are are going to suffer Right? The the when when there is a need to capture a particularly when there's an a a difficult set of decisions that need to be made around principle that we have that those principles captured to guide the operational decisions that are made as as judgment calls. So the number of things where we're going to have wired should be small. Should be placed in when we discover that we need them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "That we want to give the operational aspect of this as much leeway as we can. So that It can quickly do the right thing for the consumers of the series. Right? And then as the second Nature, do the right thing for the producers of the series so that we don't failed to make the Internet a better place because we're burning years on him. Internal discussions. That was me. Very, very quietly venting a massive amount of pent up frustration. Yes. I I heard it. So Are are you inclined to take a match to our straw men and say, none of these would fall into the kinds of things that policy would need to be said about even up leveled 1. I think, yes, but Jay is right that there is a little hint in here that expectation that policy says that what we are going to produce is actually from a technical framework. Correct. That we're not putting out something there that is fundamentally broken like the XML is broken what doesn't validate kind of thing. I think it's reasonable that is just part of the spirit of what we're capturing for the the framework that, you know, we are producing things that work. Trying and it that would even go as far as the, you know, the the operational side is expected to pay attention to you know, the unlikely case that the browser does all decide that our HTML is bad and you're gonna show it, and then we have to change her HTML so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "it's shown again. I think that that is actually a thing that policy that's not a line item policy, but should there should be something in whatever we create this policy that guides, operational decisions that say that that we will do the right thing when something like that is is presented Yeah. No. Thank you. That was very insightful. And you did specifically ask for someone from the tooling to stand up and say, Yeah. So, you know, He did. Colin. Hi. Colin Perkins. I I am confused. I I am confused. So were we? I I don't understand why we're discussing this because the answer to all of these is clearly it depends. If, you know, there are ways we could change the schema for an offer address. Which would be incompatible and might require everything to be updated. There are ways we could change the schema for an offer address. Which are trivial and don't affect anything which has been published previously. We could add an optional field. Okay? We don't need to then do anything. Error in the XML could be something fundamental that requires it to be re reissued. Maybe it doesn't validate. It could be something trivial. Maybe they forgot to include some optional field that it might be nice to have, but it's considered an error. Maybe they miss did something that's trivial new version of the tool is released. Maybe maybe the different layouts is you know, a trivial change. Maybe it's something fundamental. In all of these cases, the answer has to be it depends. And We have a bunch of professionals running the RPC. Let them do that drill. 3rd Yeah. Yep. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Steven. Yeah. So I think I'm less an agreement with Robert and I I I kinda hear a lot of people being I don't think these are kind of policy things. I do think we could give some policy guidance to say, like, you really should have a good reason for reissuing a whole pile of old old overseas. It's you know, we don't need to define what's good, a good reason, too much, I don't think. But but but to say, you know, We think it's better for the consumers of of the series that you don't kind of make pursue those changes or be very careful about making any large changes. Think that's enough So, you would to use that We want to make as few changes as possible for to preserve stability for the readers. But when it is deemed necessary by the RPC, they should do so. Sure. Yeah. And, you know, on on the assumption that, you know, if something is mad, it's gonna happen, they would kinda talk to us first, which I guess will Okay. I I think that's a an interesting, way to slice this. Gene. Jean Mahoney, RFC Production Center. So I wanted to address more the our our operational point of view, we're here to serve the community if The community thinks that we should rerender we we can do that. I I wanted to let people know that it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "If when, say, we post new XML for all the published jar of these there'll be quite a bit of, infrastructure we would need to put in place to do this. So that's just an ops consideration. And a I'm happy to hear people are are trusting us to to make some of these decisions here. And I would like to say we would not go boldly, into this. We're in we're not here going woo. We're you're gonna have so much fun doing this. We're just we're not there operationally. It just wanted to to let people know that, you know, we're we're not gonna run and and and Have fun with us. The, And as as has been pointed out. We have re rendered that one RFC that had the issue. In, the PDF output. We have very rarely made mistakes, like getting the date wrong. When we have published an RFC where there was just something end, we actually, republished with a new RFC number. Way back in the day. So for content changes, we've done that. So, Any and and but but but for, like, the little things, like, layout changes. We've got better page breaks. Think we, as your PC, would prefer that it would be very beneficial to the reader. Before we would rerender. The"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "And I guess another thing to to point out is, like, the very first time we do this. That will We'll learn a lot of things it'll take a lot. Of time, It will not be easy. It will get easier. So I think that perhaps we could experiment say with, and and again, not publish yet, but go ahead. And see what would happen with changing the postal lines, for changing 2 postal lines. And you what effort are we really looking at here? And I think that would be good information for people. But so, I guess, in summary, thank you for, Trusting the RPC to make some of these decisions, and, would not just take that trust and go galloping off and making lots of changes. Thank you. And, actually, one of the reasons I asked was the converse question, which I think I heard the answer to, which is you don't feel like you need some sort of backing by way of policy of this group in order to feel empowered to do that. So know would I made, and we could do this, and lots of people who have not been paying attention will go What the hell just happened? What what what? And even if it's trivial changes, and it's like this is just a reprint. Can't see the documents look different. Let let me rephrase. That you being able to say RSWG said we could use our best judgment here, and that's what we did and we will make adjustments if the community has yelled and doesn't think that's a good idea."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "But you don't need us to write down a policy for each and every one of these things so that you can point and say, they said to do it. That's why we did it. Ethan. That was sort of what I was trying to get a feel for. Right. You don't want us to. Oh, Jay raised his hand. I will handle the complaints. But that makes us nervous. The RPC gets very nervous. We actually just smaller just smaller discussions. Yep. There's a lot of Yeah. With this new model and we're working it out, where and and Robert mentioned, the RPA T the advisory team and also our SAB. But We feel like we need to do that. Otherwise, people go We are they doing? And and I actually I Personally, feel that there are community members that Just don't trust us. I don't know what they think we're gonna be doing. But that there's It's odd that that theme, Thank you, Jean. Then. The your 6th in line, Miriam. To interrupt. That's okay for one thing. I'm just like, sorry. I also came with it. So I'm some conversation, but I just want to say this group is supposed to write RFCs. Right? This is the only thing they can do If they want to do any policy, they have to write it down in our and they publish it and then the policy as well. So there's nothing they can do on a short term If you have short term problems, you don't wanna tackle yourself. Then we we can try to help you if we have short term problems where we don't know to tackle them at all. We have to resync the model."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "Understand. Is No. They can't. The only thing this group can do is write in our see. Sadiq. This group can say we're not writing an RFC because we don't think that policy is needed, but that means implicitly, the RPC can say whatever they want. Carston. Yeah. I think we are holding this wrong. I think we need to stop using the policy. Because people seem to policy as micromanagement, and that's not by policy. And, Yeah. But look at the slide. And so I think what we we really should be documenting is is So if there is a consensus about the objective, C wide stream wide. That should be documented, and this is what OFCs could be good for, and, somebody will have to interpret this, objective and, of plus, decisions would have to be made. And so on And a secondary function of this group can still be to provide support. I mean, you provide support by talking, making RFCs. But I think the the primary function really should be to to collect consensus about object I have a another point I just need to make because the the question always runs into this weird diddens, didn't, the RFC format is not defined by a gram So what we do due to the grammar, maybe the most obvious sing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "about doing something to the RFC format, but there are lots of other things in there. So for instance, what kinds of text strings are allowed. Within that, remember, what the semantics of the various parts are. 20 And the v 3 grammar we have right now, is essentially based on an IRC, that included the existing v 2 grammar. Pretty much. So everything that's valid in in V2 and was included is part of our agreement. But we somehow have decided to maybe not use some of these things anymore, maybe. And that that's not even documented very much, at at this point in time. There there are some explicit provisions, but What we are actually doing is not necessary exact be on the line those So, when we do this this, postal address, thing. We're not going to do anything new here. We have done a dozen of those, except that nobody has been looking And, so, maybe with looking, it will work it a little bit. Child and the previous ones did But, we we should be we should not be idealizing that grandma, we should look at the whole thing. And the other changes actually currently make it rather adventurous to regenerate the current set of of RFCs. So we we will have to find out way to deal with these past former changes that we have behind us, which mostly, semantic changes and and remember changes So we we shouldn't, deal with this as if didn't have a problem with do have a problem there. On the other hand, there are several, requirements that are currently not being met, one of which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "accessibility, which was mentioned on the list. And, we may want to do something in this space because our objective to to have accessible content, may have been receiving less attention in the past, then we wanted to be in the future. So we have this objective of stability, we have this objective of accessibility and there's just a very So doing them, and, we should the the we should be trying to make our objectives here clear. So, of course, accessibility accessibility work should not keep offers from publishing overseas because it's getting in the way. We should not create errors. It's on, but for instance, adding something to a figure allows you to look at figure is is not something that that is fundamentally changing the the meaning of the RFCs, but it really will require rerendering all that HTML Thank you. Lexus. I think most of what I have to say is probably already been said, but in the in the interest of having consensus be a parent. I agree pretty much entirely with what Paul said as far as we need to trust the RPC to do their jobs, their professionals, They have an extremely good track record as far as I've seen of not making any willy nilly changes. Every single thing I have scene has been well discussed with every potential party. So the idea that we need to put a leash on, what they can do and how they can do it, seems over Zealous, I definitely don't agree with the word required here on any of these. I think that we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "are running into the tendency to prescribe solutions instead of figuring out what our goals are. And just stating the goals and allowing them to do their jobs. So, And then I also wanted to echo what Jean said, which I think is if we are allowing the RPC to use their discretion, We, I think, do need to be explicit in an RFC that they are allowed to do so. Because Jean is correct. There there certainly are people in the community who don't seem to think that they can do their jobs. Which is absurd and insulting. So I do think that we need to give them at least enough cups, that they can be able to do a good job. With the things that we decide to do here. The only thing up here that I think even remotely touch on policy is number 1. Bars. On the on the second point, I wanna agree with Alexis. Right? And and, happy to see that we are currently leaning towards letting the RPC user judgment need to back them up, not only by within within RFC, but also if, you know, the inevitable, why did they do this email thread start? All all of us need to say because we told them to. And even if we literally might disagree that they did the right thing. We still need to say because we told them to. Because if we for every little thing that they decide, then, reopen the whole can of worms. Right? That is not really helpful. And and and as a stream owner, right, I, The the IPC is incredibly hesitant to do something on their own because they been burned in the past. And if you want them to get out of that mode, right, where they're comfortable making small, reasonable, decisions on their own. Right? We we gotta get out of the mode of second guessing every little thing. And and that's gonna be sort of a collective, I think we only take that too."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Random other things. So I like Carson's, phrasing of maybe thinking about the objectives for the series first. So so, these are, for me, all way too detailed and we we all like details and we all like then immediately go even deeper we actually need to zoom out a whole lot more but talking about the objectives of the series and then thinking about what policy might support maintaining or reaching those objectives. Right? That would be think, a worthwhile endeavor. And then we can figure out, like, what documents do need to exist to sort of do something here but even to me, like, the the discussions about the details of the XML, I'm really Sometimes questioning whether this is something that this group should do. I know a lot of people care plea about this, but To me, that is not really maybe within either the top 5 of most important things that we should be doing. Right. Okay. If XML is not discussed here. Where is I don't know. Okay. Alright. So what well, maybe we need to have a, like, XML Design team in this group or something like that. No. Okay. Okay. So I'll I'll I'll stop, right but so so maybe well, maybe XML is a special case that is you know, where this is the best home for it, but I I it it can't be the only thing we do And I I think it's it's also agrees with that. Alright. So and that's that there's, like, what Mira said, right, there's this whole thing with the R7 and and the R7 we need to figure out, like, what does it mean to interpret policy versus setting the policy exactly noticed on those things today. Like, Erada processing was brought up. In my mind, that is something that is extremely specific. Because the IRTF stream, for example, might do something very different than the IETF stream. We, you don't, but you don't, which and for reasonable reasons, right, and therefore, I would wanna leave that flexibility, right? But for example, you know, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "objectives for how Iran should be processed. Should be could be something that this group might say something general about. Right? Snow, they do having them sit around for 10 years is not ideal or Anyway, so I I I would really sort of want to zoom out. A whole lot more And, also, if if we do do the reasonable thing, which is empower the RPC to take decisions on their own, we got a for this evening. We don't talk Okay. Thank you. John Klonsom, I I I wanna reinforce something I that in in email and, but draw together of the other comments that you've been made. It seems to me that most of us are saying almost the same thing in 3 different ways. We did trust the RPC because we have no choice We also need to trust you after you see Because in spite of gene's misgivings, There are members of the community who trust the RPC much more than they trust this group. Especially for understanding of the community and representativeness and, and understanding of calls. And as I said in the in the email big. And I think this goes together with several of the comments that you made about about stability, about not tampering with things. I think one of the things we should say on a policy basis, if it one of our primary goals for the RPC is getting things which have been agreed on for the streams should be published put together and published in the minimum amount of time possible to shift it with high quality with the high quality of the RPC has been delivering for years, if not better. And,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "and that's a trade off against typically with all documents no matter how it is, we killer on which dimensions. So I think that's a a clear policy issue, and it is probably beneficial that we repeated. And repeated in conjunction with other things which have seen implications. I think I'll stop there. Thanks. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you And Jay. Hi, Jay. How are you again? So, I very much understand and agree with Jean that a, an RFC that explicitly gives the RPC this is important, and actually I think we have to have one because there is a principle of mutability built into a number of other documents. Not ex completely explicitly, but close enough that we have to we have to undo it order to enable this to happen and I agree with Stephen, the guidance that basically says, don't do it too often, know, for some of these things is important because there is the overall reputation and trust of the trying to do that you know, and that that has to be considered as part of it. Lucky. I know someone has written a draft, says it's actually all those things. But anyway, So I think we, you know, we, I think we all understand why we have to get to that position. Thank you. Hillian. You're gonna jump on? Okay. So Robert Sparks, internalizing some of the things that I heard and thinking in per particular about laying down a the RPC did this because we said so kind of artifact. And responding to Lara's frustration with with with with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "microfocusing on the big elephant that we've been blocked on when we've got other aspects that we need to look at. Want to point out that there are a reasonable number of community members that have a different vision for what the output that the IETF should look like. That don't think, and I'm putting words in their mouth here. I'm that that don't think that the the RFC series should even exist that we should be publishing. You've heard live documents discussion, the things like this, a lot of the Same people that might the RPC to feel like they Cause the trust them aren't really going after the arc PC. They're going after the institution that is the RSC is and that they want to change is they want to be different. And the RBC as one of the walls that they bump up against when they're trying to make this change. You're not in a room that says something but we need to I account and encourage conversation with with with with with the people that have these ideas so that we're not continually just having schism, Thank you. Yeah. That was a little bit of a mouthful. Robert. Okay. Where are we? I think in this room, I'll I'll as an individual, what I heard. Was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "There was pretty good consensus. On Faith in the RPC's use of judgment. It didn't I will say for me, and we obviously have to talk about this afterwards. This conversation has made me much more comfortable with the direction to go. Yes. Very much. Which you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, The people didn't show up. There's a they can be in the rough, or No. If there if there are a lot of them, then we'll and we'll circle back, which brings me It's my next point. I warned Russ, I would say this. I warned t t would say this at a different point. The immortal words of Monte Python get on with it. Okay. We have lots stuff that are blocking. If we have to you know, I I want ways forward such that we don't block if if if if if we're if we're hitting issues that we do block, we can work them in parallel. Over. I'm done listening to to to this spinning around wanna make sure that we get Disability dealt with. Disability issues or accessibility issues dealt with, maffinl dealt with. Postal, if not, I think postal has to be dealt with because it's breaking. And I'd like to see SPG dealt with If this stuff can't block that stuff at this point, it's time. Will end and we spent Paul and, Russ and I spoke before the session. Part of the problem we were having was We felt like the group kept getting wrapped around the axle of things that probably should have just been our BC practice. That we're entering into policy discussions that were for us blocking how to move forward on those issues. Okay. So getting consensus on the direction we're taking here actually unbox your chairs from pushing forward on some stuff. Then hopefully what what I'll be expecting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "been, as a member of the r our south will be some documents that will start progressing in terms of those issues as and when they're needed. Now I know it's a little too early to talk about the the accessibility document that just came out. There's some analysis that are that that's needed I think, in terms of the, you know, what happens to happen with Matt. I think that's pretty clear or at least I think we can get to clear pretty quickly. For SPG, I'm I'm pretty confident we can get to pretty clear you know, quickly there too. And for postal, I actually you know, I'd backed off my own position a little bit so that things could get done. I actually think we can get pretty clear there. So I'm really, really looking forward to us, seeing stuff in the RSAP. Thank you. Area. I would just wanted to comment on this point. What's policy again? So I think in general, we should actually trust the RPC with because they're the experts and like, their role is to have something that is stable and and, competitors wrong word. It's like the same feeling feeling. Touched through it all the time. So that's part of their role and that's what they're doing. And I feel like, you know, if we don't have a problem, we shouldn't put policy on it. It's like, it's the cases where we have a problem. And it's and I see 2 cases. 1 is the RPC is actually unsure about what they wanna do and they want guidance. But in that case, we still need somebody from the RPC or the community to write down some guidance so we can actually discuss some guidance or policy. Right? It doesn't help to just bring the problem. You'd need to propose a solution to this group. That's important. Or somebody is unhappy with what the RPC is doing. And then they can also write it down in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "policy, and then we can have a discussion about changing it in future. But also it must be recognized that whatever we do here is not changing anything we do tomorrow. It's changing anything when we have publish the RFC when we have consensus. So it can always just be on a level where we have, like, a longer and pyros Sure. I'm fine with all that as long as we don't block. Paul. Very briefly, going to what Robert had said about the people who don't like the RFC series or whatever. That's not for I'm hearing some questions. I look at the charter and I don't see anything in this group without Should we not do RFCs? Should we do them radically differently? I don't see that at all. I see that this is about the publication of RFCs. Largely good, man. Am I glad I got in line at this point? So so I I disagree with Paul. So so my definition of IRC is output of the IT. Right? Because this is really the only thing that the IITF outputs and other people also but there's other streams. And Robert mentioned the mean, there's people that are unhappy with the format of the RFCs. They wanna change RFCs. The the living documents discussion is broader. Right? We have, for example, on young models. That are outputs of the IETF that we're trying to like, maintain as an organization as well, and we have this We spoke define where with the end catalog and Aiana's mirroring them and so on. And now there's the in yang land, there's zip files. We had the discussion earlier, right, where people have valid reasons to have other things, coming out of the ATF that they wanna maintain and they're not RFCs and sticking them into an I mean, sticking the yang into an RFC was already a clue, which, right, we did it for us. And we No. Not SNMP."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "It didn't work then. It doesn't work for Yang. And so for for this new type of document of its new type of information, decided to find some other to to put it somewhere other than the internet draft and then the RFC, which is fully understandable. Right? But at Those discussions needed to be had somewhere, and and there's I think this is actually the group to have done. Like, what what what do we do if if working groups wanna publish things that aren't just like static text documents, but they are maybe structured in some way or and and how do we do that? Right? And and, like, IRTF again, right, might well also decide at some point that the outputs is something other than just RFCs on the street. So that I think these broader discussions need to be had somewhere codec. Definitions. Oh, yeah. Alright. Yeah. I agree with ours, dispute with Paul. I also for another reason is that gonna complain anyway. So you're gonna talk to them somewhere and the hallway is maybe not quite good enough for this. You wanna get a note of Thank you Plus one to all that, the Stephen and Lars just Okay. We're almost out of time. I'm way more comfortable now than when we walked in this room. That we have A good line about what is policy and what is practice we will have to write that down and and I will collaborate on that, hopefully, more quickly than the last set of minutes. So I very much appreciate it, and I hope that this, results in unblocking a whole bunch of things. That was the intent, and I hope it, has that result."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "Quick meta issue. Running to the mic. Yeah. A quick meta issue on the before you close on the scheduling of this. Because we went back and forth, and this is now, like, in a slightly unusual spot given that it's lunch, and there's no lunch. I would sort of I think it would be helpful to understand if this is something that the group wants to do or whether we'd rather wanna conflict with a bunch of working groups, which is gonna be very make it difficult, but we we did this as an experiment, I'm guessing now, and guess. So let's do a real home. Okay. That how many people believe that, finding a time that conflicts with nothing else is important And how many people think it's okay to be in a regular working group slot? think it's pretty clear that we just I go into the normal mix. Colin. Alright. Carl Perkins. I mean, if you want the stream managers to be here, you have to avoid conflicting with things which they have to go to. We we know that. So you can't just be in a regular slot. It means that we have if we can't be in a regular slot, it means gonna end up in things like this, giving up lunches, for breakfast or something. Or doing only interim. That's very which I Okay. We are, Maria, down to one minute. People will hate me now. But breakfast likely better because people can't breakfast breakfast before breakfast. Right? But also from leadership point of view, but it also doesn't have to be in last than me who will be in our future, so there might be an opportunity in the future to do differently. But, like, we are the only slot that is open is Friday. Breakfast. Okay. We'll talk. Alright. People are beginning to show up for the next sessions. I was, thank you very much."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "This way. Very happy. Have a discussion of what No."
  }
]
