[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "we have a nice little slide machine here love and it got me out of being in the it\u0027s 2:30 we\u0027re ready to start our folks settled in ready to roll excellent almost wait til til our minute taker starts minuting all right note well since it\u0027s Monday I will actually note the note well so there are a bunch of BCPs floating around in this organization that tell you what participation requirements are some of them include things regarding intellectual property if you are someone who is worried about that you better go read them before you sit here and look cute and there\u0027s other things about other behaviors that you should engage in and not engage in please read up on these things if you have not already they are listed here so administrivia that\u0027s going to be taking minutes Peter and I are both going to be in the jabber room but if someone else wants to keep an eye on things that would be helpful Ted thank you blue sheets are going around yes good and we have an agenda to bash so let\u0027s bash so the on administrivia and this is this Boff we\u0027re going to do pretty much chair driven and then discussion in each point simply because I think it\u0027s going to be a lot of explaining what the problem and goals here are and the mic lines will be open as we get to each topic that there\u0027s not a long discussion of each thing in any event we\u0027ll do goals and on goals for the buff up front review what our current state of affairs is look at the problems with the current state of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:29",
    "text": "affairs look at some strongman proposals that were put together two of them to be precise and then figure out some next steps anybody have complaints about this structure or things to add or subtract or multiply I love happiness and silence always a good thing will do yeah we\u0027ve got very good sound in this place but it did yes its robust I unusually robust myself alright so we have several goals for the session today we want to figure out the problem space of internationalization reviews and what we need to do with them we want to come to some high level agreement on solutions to the problems that we\u0027re having doing these reviews nowadays we\u0027ve got two proposals that are on the list and we will describe those two they either come down to basically an internationalization review team or writing a internationalization considerations RFC and and yes and that is a non-exclusive or it\u0027s a proper or so both of those things might occur the group might decide that both of those things are worth doing specific non goal is to figure out how to handle the larger internationalization initiative some things so if you thought you were here about that please do not be too disappointed so Peter you want to talk about specifics sure Pete thank you so much Pete and I were co-eds it together so we used to call it the Pete and repeat so this is Pete and repeat repeat so issues come up and there\u0027s a number of things that over the years we have defined that are have impinge upon internationalization character sets if you go and look at the the background materials RRC 2277 so some of these things have been around for quite some time a utf-8 there are other also encoding so for instance you are eyes sometimes we try to encode unicode fold unicode characters outside the ascii range into your eyes internationalized domain names we have had two versions go rounds on that ID and a a 1980 2008 we have some non DNS protocol identifiers so we had precis work that was done to address a lot of that and there\u0027s a lot of security implications which i forgot to put the RFC in there but it was an IAB document about authorization and authentication with regard to internationalize strings and so interest very interesting things can happen there when we\u0027re doing in comparison want to know if something is allowed to have access to something so these are some and Alexei and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "actually have when we had to review the art reviewers going at one point we had a whole wiki page about this we should track that down again and there\u0027s others as well which we could add to I\u0027m sure you Sara know I should be doing CentOS ok yeah yeah so we have a number of different kinds of documents that come through that mean looking at we have Internet drafts which are not directly about internationalization but in have things in them that needs to be looked at so they might have some text strings even things like error messages that can be sent around do we want to how do we want to handle those positive so there might need to be flagged as even if it\u0027s utf-8 well you know it does need a language tag things like that so we will less things comfortable look at those there\u0027s some I would say kind of relatively straightforward applications of some of our existing technology so we have things like the lamps work that happened recently I\u0027ll refer to a couple times where we wanted to be able to support at the ends in PGI certificates how does that get done folks folks get pulled in and we look at those then there\u0027s some throwing your issues that John mentioned on the list which we\u0027ve had less success of late in getting reviews on this impinges a little bit I think or touches on what people is mentioning with some some of the larger efforts but some of these are a little bit more straightforward than others and then some are more difficult but these are the sorts of documents that come through that we need to take a look at and then so how do how do we have folks look at these things well sometimes people reach out early on because they realize there\u0027s some areas that they don\u0027t know as much about and so they might need some help and that\u0027s my understanding of what happened with lamps our working group I think people reached out to maybe you and Patrick ahlstrom to say hey you know we don\u0027t have expertise here we need some help that works well sometimes if people are having awareness that they need to reach out oftentimes things get flagged in during iest review sometimes earlier in working group last call or ITF last call often area directors a current area directors can correct me if I\u0027m wrong but I know this is where things often came up in the past and then whoever gets flagged says oh well we need to find someone who knows about this so maybe it\u0027s John or maybe it\u0027s me sometimes Reznik Patrick Falls from other folks depending on what the topic comes up we might take a look at things worst case maybe people weren\u0027t really recognizing that there was an issue and and review doesn\u0027t happen at all hopefully that\u0027s not really what happens "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:29",
    "text": "but we don\u0027t really have a systematic way to find what would needs review and who does these well we have some people they know some things and people find them and see if they can apply have that knowledge apply to the things they\u0027re working on this is kind of okay in the sense that you know we typically find the right folks sometimes but it\u0027s kind of ad hoc right so someone maybe reaches out to John or they reach out to me or someone else and say hey I could use some help on this if they\u0027re aware we don\u0027t you know so that\u0027s kind of how things work now it\u0027s sort of ad-hoc adhocracy if you would and then we sort of informally provide feedback it\u0027s a one-off thing we don\u0027t necessarily capture what gets said and so we\u0027re not really you know figure it out have a stable of advice that we provide Pete you want to talk about some problems I like to talk about the easy stuff yeah so they\u0027re not reliably identifying the documents needing review the the worst the worst case scenario was not identifying them at all but even having it happened during iesg review I think all of the art area directors for the past few years have gotten very used to finding keywords in all sorts of other our internet drafts and going that\u0027s going to be an internationalization thing because you use the word string and probably we need to go look at that but that\u0027s not sustainable and it\u0027s very late in the process we also have a pretty small number of people who we can hand these things off to with at least reasonable chops it none of us I believe are saying that we have to have the expert of all experts do this every time but we need people who at least have read through and understand the issues well enough to be able to identify that there might be an issue there and the problem there is that we\u0027re not training folks as we go along to come up to speed on how to find these issues and what to do about them yeah I mean we\u0027ve done some are there other problems that folks are seeing with this yeah the the other problem is is some of the people whom you have traditionally been calling on because of this problem are getting disgusted and are getting less and less responsive and that creates a feedback loop of this sort one doesn\u0027t like yes grumpiness in this particular group of people is not desirable in the long run yeah John yeah John Levine I\u0027ve also noticed it mean and I\u0027m sure I\u0027m guilty as guilty of this as anybody sort of in a lack of consistence a lack of consistency in about what the issues are and what to do about them right I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:30",
    "text": "that\u0027s fair so a couple of proposals have been put out one is to basically form something that we do in lots of other areas as well which is an internationalization Directorate so not including documents that are specifically about internationalization per se this would be going through documents on some sort of regular basis to review for common internationalization issues also would include if requested or if discovered giving guidance to particular working groups on the applications of existing internationalization technology so the sort of thing that happened with lamps trying to walk through and help solve some of the thorny or internationalization issues that come up although again that\u0027s the kind of stuff that probably requires a dedicated working group to address for a particular internationalization kind of problem space but for more general things certainly that Directorate can help and you know maybe that for purposes of a working group might be like a design team that works on internationalization internationalization stuff in the first place the other proposal I\u0027m sorry we\u0027re still one Directorate the the idea is much like the gen art or sector it would not review every internet draft that went through simply just time constraints there as I was talking about with regard to a bee\u0027s doing it there there\u0027s a relatively easy way to triage documents to figure out whether it\u0027s worth giving them a more thorough review to look for particular kinds of data that is floating around in a particular protocol spec where necessary we end up reviewing documents as a team to be able to communicate knowledge to other team members and you know do some expert reviewing as a team so yeah Daniel paint you just said I think I heard you say that it\u0027s relatively easy to triage documents there by criteria is that criteria written down somewhere I think yeah this is Peter I think one of the problems is we don\u0027t really have a lot written down and so we depending on an oral tradition that is not necessarily a sustainable way to do things and the other thing going on there is I can tell you that I have the I can\u0027t describe to you what the possible internationalization problem is but I know it when I see it so those of us who\u0027ve been doing it a while and know the issues can kind of go you know that\u0027s gonna be a problem but some of it is complicated to describe what exactly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:32",
    "text": "you\u0027re looking for if it says string that\u0027s easy if it says you know some data and and you notice that it looks like they might be putting text in there even though it\u0027s just a blob of bits that\u0027s harder to notice sometimes right well no I just I Dan is this is barely but Dan is not asking about getting it down into it he\u0027s just asking for triage and at the triage level yes looking for strings looking for utf-8 somewhere in there there\u0027s a pretty easy way to say this document probably doesn\u0027t have internationalization issues this document needs a little more look but you\u0027re right no not much of it is written right I was just struck by that comment because it\u0027s not that seems like a way to help with that all right yeah this is Andrew Sullivan if if we could write down reliably how to do that triage we wouldn\u0027t have to have this Boff and that\u0027s that\u0027s actually part of the problem here that because the the sense is that the sense develops really from the from the observation that gee there\u0027s a payload here we\u0027re actually somebody\u0027s supposed to do something with this payload and that turns out to to mean that there\u0027s something in there that you that somebody has to care about but there\u0027s something in there that somebody has to care about is not really a triage strategy that\u0027s a you know that\u0027s a somebody needs to have a look at all the things and and while they\u0027re going along people need to need to notice oh well there could be an issue here and then you send it off yeah the the security ones were I think the more interesting discovery that those of us who did these reviews noticed because the security people would sometimes say no no we\u0027re just treating that as a binary string to do whatever manipulations on but some of us realize wait a minute but you\u0027re get that by that supposed binary string from user input and that user input is usually going to be through a keyboard with certain features and and certain ways of encoding that input that might be different between different keyboards so it was you know now that\u0027s an easy one to notice but yeah I think Andrews right these as we\u0027ve learned we come up with new ways of discovering these john cleansin here we may be using triage in slightly different ways or not understanding in the same way where that stops identifying a document that needs further attention is pretty easy and we could probably write down a bunch of heuristics if not rules for identifying those documents and get it right almost all the time the difficulty is comes in with what happens next and that tends to require some specialized expertise and discussion plus one done I think when we were talking about triage on the list or various discussions it was that first feature ok how do we wrap this bug "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:32",
    "text": "essentially and figure out that there might be a bug here yes addressing the problem is as a harder thing there\u0027s an additional complication there which is if you\u0027ve got a small pool of people who can do the work then those people are not available to do the reviews of the work if you wanted to pendick review and one of the things which is interesting about the list of ID\u0027s who add up earlier is that if you discount the people who had heavy involvement in writing of those IDs from the list of available reviewers the pool of available reviewers gets really small I totally agree the spears in Andrzej by the way sorry and I think that\u0027s where there\u0027s two things there I think John one is that that\u0027s where things order on perhaps a design team in the sense that let\u0027s say we want to address these fun issues that we had with you know unicode seven and and so on we did have a small group of people who had awareness of what those issues were and looked into them and they me you know perhaps they need to work together well to come up with proposed solutions but then finding people to actually review that work is a tougher challenge because they were that all the ones involved this this is Barry are we discussing these proposals now or are we just introducing them yeah so um yes we\u0027re discussing that\u0027s a kind of fact so the slide says small team to start maybe five people we have had I don\u0027t know whether we\u0027ve had a formal ie TN Directorate before but we\u0027ve at least had a de-facto one before and we have had an IAB internationalization program before and both of them have collapsed what makes us think that establishing a new one will have a different result Ted I just wanted to point out that the purpose of the itn program of the IB was not to review the IETF documents in the fashion that this is directed to yet I think it\u0027s fate has a similar connotation with respect to this Tory I would actually say that it\u0027s different in two ways one of which is very salient to this and one which is perhaps a bit more nebulous one of the things that makes it a bit more nebulous is that in many ways an ITN program of the IAB must buy the Navy\u0027s nature think about liaison relationships and how it interacts with other bodies this work inside the HF may or may not have to consider that but as long as somebody\u0027s writing i18n considerations within the context of the work that the ITF has already done they may not have to spend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:32",
    "text": "a great deal of time thinking about how it interacts with other bodies the other thing is people are driven in different ways to participate in things and people who are driven into Directorate review are often simply trying to make sure that the work of the ITF completes successfully and that may not be the same driver for people who are trying to see new frameworks or new resolution mechanisms that may be significantly different from where we are today it\u0027s like saying the IRT F and the ITF may have different participants because they have different goals wendy seltzer w3c and acknowledging we face similar challenges at w3c we have an internationalization working group that has a small number of very committed people who have a lot of work you know to do so you know I I\u0027m happy in my liaison role to help share information from from what we\u0027re doing there I think one of the ways we\u0027ve helped to work with them is through tooling and tagging encouraging all of our groups to tag issues to send to the internationalization group for review so that at least recognizing some of the most obvious problems and sending them over is pre done and then trying to make the groups responsive to the internationalization reviewers when when they spot something to reduce the burden on reviewers to make those conversations happen this is Barry yes with but when he said one of the issues that we have at least in the IETF is people not being aware that they need to tag it - for internationalization review I reviewed a document relatively recently that just thought it was sufficient to say this field will be case insensitive utf-8 and you know they thought that was enough and and there\u0027s no reason to think they shouldn\u0027t think that\u0027s enough because that\u0027s you know that\u0027s as far as they knew they didn\u0027t know to tag that from more information or they would have come to us so there\u0027s that issue but the w3c has recently put out a statement about increased focus on internationalization can you say something about that thank you I can yes so w3c also has a paid staff and a staff member Richard Ishita whose full-time focus is internationalization managing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:35",
    "text": "and doing some of the internationalization review work and we recognized the w3c community recognized that that was not enough and recently launched an internationalization sponsorship effort trying to bring in more support to fund more of the involvement of experts in internationalization work across a variety of areas including identifying gaps in the platform as well as reviewing and improving the work that\u0027s being done without a specific internationalization focus hi this is Peter again I am actually involved with the internationalization working group at the w3c I think it\u0027s it works quite well especially the tagging of issues and things like that Don and I are on those calls quite often and I think that work has done well to Berry\u0027s point you know why do we think we\u0027re going to get a different result this time I think it is related a little bit to what you said Ted about different kinds of people involved we haven\u0027t done I would say a good job of training people and recruiting people to work on these efforts at the ITF we\u0027ve had some tutorials here here and there I think that if we were working on potentially working on some of the less contentious issues where we do need to do sort of regular reviews I know and at w3c we have a weekly call to go over that the things that are under review if there were a regular cadence of calls that we had or meetings of some kind of wherever reviewing the documents come through and triage and things together and that\u0027s what we\u0027re I think we get back to working as a team because we\u0027ve got individuals who know about things but we haven\u0027t really had it\u0027s more of a team coordinated effort I think that would help people feel more committed to that and be working on things ongoing that\u0027s my perception anyway yeah I like that response and I would certainly personally this is Barry I would personally be very happy to be part of a team that had weekly or bi-weekly conference calls and really took this as a team effort to do these reviews but two things I\u0027ll add when we went through the precis process that was an attempt to come up with tools for people to use in their protocols to internationalize and teach them the things that they needed to know about internationalization we are this time around separating out a triage as an independent important thing to do to teach people how to notice that there\u0027s a problem not necessarily solve the problem so they can ask for help so I think their it we have the potential there to take an intermediate step that we haven\u0027t tried to take before the other thing to point out and you know having a tool does not necessarily make it useful but the review team tools that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:36",
    "text": "are now available are actually much better than they were even a short period of time ago in with the ability for working group chairs to ask for reviews at different times for those to be scheduled for those to poke appropriate people and say please review this document for this particular purpose and we tend to use those tools late in the process but they\u0027re usable earlier in the process so I think we have at least some new things that make this potentially solvable any other comments on the Directorate stuff elissa Cooper so the idea is that this would be an art area Directorate the chairs quickly are gonna hear torn Lord Navy\u0027s who have their heads down in their phones okay Adam says that would be appropriate in his opinion I just like to I think it\u0027s helpful to be clear about these things because well in theory I think the purpose for directorates is to and they\u0027re all sort of chartered by some portion of the IHG right so typically they all roll up to some ad some set of ATS and those ADEs have some responsibilities vzv the directorate typically that would include like maintaining the membership refreshing the membership being involved in some of these discussions about recruiting likely you know establishing that the review cadence or the expectations about what happens to these reviews and whatnot and I think it\u0027s important that if people go forward with this that everybody agrees about all those parameters or at least is on board with what they what the eighties think they\u0027re going to do with this thing yeah and to that point unless I don\u0027t think we haven\u0027t we don\u0027t really have a charter in front of us or a you know proposal about how it would exactly be structured in the cadence and all that kind of stuff some we\u0027re gonna need to put that together as a follow-on to this hey this is your idea my comment about the Directorate Licht rate is how we can obtain diversity of the expert from all over the world because as you see then most of people here is from jacket states or European and very few Asian sir or Arabic such languages but the population of such language is very wide and high penetration in the world so the story says five is small I think also and invites much more language expert from the wallet it\u0027s very important yeah I think that\u0027s probably right I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:38",
    "text": "one saving grace is that for the the 80/20 rule is that 80% of these things are things that can be dealt with by anyone who has basic expertise and and it\u0027s probably even more than 80% I would guess but the the there\u0027s a chunk that actually somebody with appropriate skills would be required for and so yeah I think the point is well-taken Chris Newman another point I wanted to make about Directorate is there may be people who don\u0027t want to be like full members of a Directorate and commit a lot of time but are happy to help out and yo II have provided a way to make sure they stay up-to-date on on what\u0027s the you know the latest things that should be watched for and in help with reviews so I encourage you to consider making room for that sort of participant yeah John Clint\u0027s in the Senate interact with all three of the last comments first of all I would have agreed with 80/20 six months ago but my experience and a number of things have happened in the last six months is such that lowering that number quite a bit the second observation is that to do well on this beyond a certain point in this goes to yashida\u0027s son\u0027s comment you\u0027re going to have to recruit some outside expertise the difficulty with rikuo nura difficulties with recruiting outside expertise is that if we inflict upon those people in addition to our higher is and rich compensation packages uncle Dylan IETF bureaucracy they won\u0027t be here so one of the issues is that it the more we push this into the traditional Directorate box the less likely it will be to succeed given that need for outside expertise and the time issue mention a number of other things so be a little careful there ELISA Cooper I don\u0027t really know what bureaucracy that is I haven\u0027t really seen that I actually got a piano responder Chris as well just to note that in general for example we have like a diversity of review Cadence\u0027s so you can have people who are part of the Directorate who review once a quarter and you can have people who review twice a month there\u0027s probably not enough people in the world to populate this thing that that would be a useful model but if there are then it\u0027s not like has to be one size fits all Adam Roach actually got up here to ask Chris if he could clarify something about his comment I can read what you said two different ways and one is I think what ELISA kind of alluded to or it\u0027s like someone who doesn\u0027t necessarily have the time commitment but might want his date like either on an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:39",
    "text": "infrequent but periodic basis or you know I want to be the person who is involved for internationalisation as it pertains to say email the other way that I can read it is you know sort of experts on tap that you can reach out to who are experts on you know like Indic languages you can say hey I need some input on this and I am not sure exactly which of those two you are referring to the second one I\u0027ve actually already heard the first one is kind of new and I\u0027m just curious Chris Newman no I was more it was more time constraint you know if if you like it you know if you ask me to participate and not had to be on a bi-weekly meeting I\u0027d say no if you asked me to participate and I was reviewing a document every two weeks or something I might I might very well say yes Tony just a couple of ring for a moment I know that the actual proposal here is that the team should formulate a strategy for recruiting and training new members and there are two different strategies that might it might take one is to take language experts and to give them the training would be required to understand how that language expertise applied to protocol matching sorting algorithm issues that our particular draw world as opposed to more general that that\u0027s one set of training that might be given to people who are experts in specific language families or you could take people who are already familiar with the ITF protocol suite and give them enough training to let them identify cases where they know they now need to go get language expertise from specific language families and so especially if the goal here is for one to do triage I think the second is more likely than the first and in part because I believe you\u0027ll want the people with that deep understanding of specific language families for the work that\u0027s after triage and spending some of their effort early on may loses some of their effort and the later more tricky bits but I think if the proposal here is that the team formulates a strategy once formed then this room doesn\u0027t need to formulate the strategy I think this Ted gets like this Peter st. Andre gets back to something that John was saying that we there are people who know a lot more John to know some of these folks we know a lot more about particular scripts or language families and so on then we do hear they don\u0027t necessarily want to be engaged at the level of reviewing documents but if we have a sort of an advisory group or people that we can call on who we know who we that we can say hey you know here\u0027s a sticky issue with right to left you know you know in a in the particular internet context but to reach out to them with regard to that instead of having them necessarily involved all the time that we people that we can call on as needed I I would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:40",
    "text": "see that model probably working better because those are those deeper issues the day-night might might not want to be triaging and reviewing all the time I think what you\u0027re talking about there isn\u0027t a triage Directorate though it\u0027s a bank of people and maybe we can separate the two issues that I think triage is a function of whatever team gets put together whether it\u0027s a Directorate or something else they need to perform triage but then once they figure out this document needs review oh this is a straightforward issue we\u0027ve got a RFC perhaps that talks about these things we pretty much know what to do we\u0027ve documented what the usual right answer is here that\u0027s one thing but they know now we\u0027ve got a deeper issue we triage just as people that have the deeper expertise but we still need to call on people who have even deeper expertise about certain scripts outside Harilal lustrum know just just want to remind people about the original meaning of triage which was the Roman legions after the battle had a process by which the doctor looked at you and divided you into one of three groups one is will get healthy anyway this is likely to be the ones that you can just give them give them a piece of advice or even say you we don\u0027t care about you and this second one was this needs treatment which is something that comes off the tree edge and the third one was yeah yeah there\u0027s no hope for you you die so if you want to have a triage mechanism it needs to be fast and being fast that means it needs to get stuffed if you tree arch and don\u0027t have a follow-up mechanism then you need to have a mechanism to kill off everything you can\u0027t heal and I don\u0027t think you have that so better find a mechanism John cleansing again let me point out we\u0027ve again it goes to some extent to Ted\u0027s comment let me point out we\u0027ve got a much easier in some ways problem than w3c for example although in some ways harder w3c has had to deal with challenges like how you punctuate Mongolians so it looks right on the page my suspicion is the amount of IETF expertise in the punctuation a Mongolian is quite limited that if you put together a by person Directorate team you are unlikely to have any of it they\u0027ve got a whole page layout issues and a whole lot of issues which are very specific to specific issues with specific languages we have as far as I\u0027ve been able to tell none of that our hardest problems are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "knowing that if you do something in a particular way it is likely to screw up some language you have never heard of and that requires enough broad expertise as distinct from language by language specific expertise to detect those kinds of issues and at least to understand the world enough to get the expertise needed to address them we\u0027ve made some mistakes that have the property that if you do so-and-so then something else will be hurt and we will probably make them again but unless we get smart enough to you to minimize that number or do damage control we\u0027re in trouble this is Mary I almost entirely agree with what John just said the only quirk we don\u0027t need to know the details of Amharic or something or Mongolian but we do need to know that in some languages this issue comes up so like we need to know Arabic has variants and other languages have other things and we don\u0027t need to know how to resolve that we need to know that that issue crops up and we need to know how to deal with it so there there is some specific expertise but nothing at the level that we\u0027re talking about there so given the lull in the conversation let\u0027s quickly also look at the other proposal which is and this may impact how we design proposal one or how they will interact so the other proposal on the table is writing up an RFC to describe internationalization issues so this is not going to necessarily be an introductory tutorial for beginners to learn internationalization this is aimed at developing expertise such that you could do different levels of this sort of review so it would describe key issues and principles for reviews and documents some of the oral tradition as Dan was pointing to it no one is envisioning at this point mandating internationalization consideration sections added to every RFC that that seems to be distasteful to many how this might thing might interact with setting up a review team is I think an interesting question and why I think these are non-exclusive proposals and might need to go on in parallel comments this is Barry are you then saying that a goal of this might be to build future members of the Directorate I think that would help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "because as I say we do have this oral tradition a lot of its in John\u0027s head but other people like you know Patrick hallström and another\u0027s in mark McKay and Pete and so on we find knowledge but we haven\u0027t captured it anywhere so I think it would be helpful to capture more of that on paper so that as we do bring folks up to speed they have an awareness of what some of the issues are that need to get addressed and even beyond that I think how to think about these sorts of problems so I think we really we this might be fun this might be useful John John I know John has for certain values of fun says John and I know John has done at least two plenary presentations on internationalization and other people have done others in various contexts and the result is usually people walking away with a glazed look in staggering that a step one so but if in addition to this and like I said this might be a fine thing to do but I think we need a different level something with addressed to people with no a I 18 and knowledge that\u0027s telling you things you need to look at in your own document to tell yourself that you might need to ask us early on in the process rather than waiting until last call so whether one document or two or how we divided up at least something about the triage issue how to find that there might be a problem and then the expertise or tradition how to solve the problems okay mark he said da that\u0027s making me nervous these days I don\u0027t know why mark Nottingham a lot of this conversation is sounding vaguely familiar to me in that in the HTTP world we have the issue that everybody wants to use HTTP yay and they usually misuse it and they don\u0027t understand it and we struggle communicating that knowledge and so I have a cron job that sends me and Patrick a list of all the RFC\u0027s that reference HTTP specs twice a month and we kind of shake our heads and say there\u0027s no way we can review all of those because we don\u0027t have the resources we don\u0027t have a review team built so that\u0027s why we started BCP 56 bits to document that knowledge and part of that and why I think that this is important this proposal is that if if you don\u0027t have a shared truth of this is the correct thing for for documents to do in this in this situation or all rightie of specifications then then you\u0027re gonna have contention you\u0027re gonna have someone coming in on the review team imposing their opinion or their view of what internationalization is which may not align with the rest of the review team and/or reality so I think if we\u0027re gonna do this sort of stuff it would be nice to write it down and I\u0027ll give a I think the w3c has done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:41",
    "text": "a good job of this the there was a character model for the internet document that was old and has been updated and a lot of good better things have gone into that and so yes having something along the lines of what you\u0027re saying mark I think would be very helpful Dave Taylor so I\u0027m going to go back to one of John\u0027s comments and then give two analogies the comment of Jones I want to focus on is you said your opinion that the percentage now is different from it was six months ago that tells me that there\u0027s a sizable percentage of information that you might need to know when doing a review or even a triage that is not necessarily a static enough that as soon as you put it into an RFC it\u0027s not update the two analogies that I want to give is one is the way that mid doctors worked now the one is the way that the RFC style guide worked okay in both cases the set of things that you\u0027re reviewing for were somewhat dynamic and there was a subset that became relatively fixed and so both of them kind of start off with being you know a wiki page a web page that gets kept up to date with tribal knowledge that can be revved very frequently and that the authors and even cite that their reviewers and even authors could go to as being the latest source of knowledge of things that reviewers were showing information about they didn\u0027t have to wait for an RFC once you had a subset of that they became stable enough and unchanging and often that portion of it moved into an RFC and I believe that happen in both the start style guide as well as any guidelines for moobs and so that\u0027s the model that I think one would actually need to do here says the RFC isn\u0027t the starting point you need like a wiki page or something as a starting point now might be a subset of it that goes when RFC so that may I attempt to rephrase Dave and confirm that I\u0027ve got what you\u0027re pointing out is perhaps the title of this sludge B proposal for documentation and the form of the documentation might be one the other or both of these kinds of mechanisms over time correct and so this gets to I don\u0027t think the first step is let\u0027s charter a working group ripoff or something whose task it is to define an RFC I think that\u0027s the only way to frame it I completely agree with a showing of knowledge right which is you know the style guide admit doctors and stuff the original sharing was not on IFC right it was web page wiki style so a question - I\u0027m guessing a DS although anybody can obviously contribute to the question is is there a willingness to charter a working group whose output is not an internet draft that\u0027s going to go for RFC but more in documentation in some sort of space that that will force people to concentrate on it I I don\u0027t want to answer that question but I want to extend that question because whether it needs to be a working group or as just a Directorate is a question mm-hmm can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:41",
    "text": "answer people Alexei Melnikov we we had some discussions in IHG recently about documents who really liked not to be published because they have no temporal usefulness you know and you know this this is not necessarily the same example but I personally don\u0027t think don\u0027t see a problem with a group which is chartered to maintain certain documentation without a specific outcome as long as we can measure success Dan York and I was just to echo days comments that was my comment was it\u0027s not an RFC it\u0027s it\u0027s a set of things this is when I think about the work I was doing earlier about deployment of various protocols you know it was it was a suite of materials it was a thing like that to Lexi\u0027s point yeah this there is a value in looking at how do you do this in a way that\u0027s dynamic that is something that you do the other piece is to realize that we don\u0027t have to you know do all this alone there are many other resources out there you know such as the w3c s but others other entities that are this is not a new topic right so part of the thing is can you gather people who can look at what are the ones that are useful for people to know what are the tutorials that have been published that are useful in some way but it just it\u0027s it\u0027s more than one document it\u0027s a suite of something wow this discussion continues to put up the last slide which is the conclusions that your chairs and I expect your abs want to figure out by the time the discussion ends might be useful john cleansin I want to reflect a little bit on on one of the earlier comments from mark and and draw contrast and apologize because I\u0027ve managed to make it through 45 minutes this session without saying anything snarky but I\u0027m about to violate that know will toss appropriate chair concerns at you when that time comes mark of the people who are working actively on HTTP how many of them do you think there are likely understand HTTP significant number two the ability to review a document that uses HTTP a handful okay I was you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:33",
    "text": "but but that particular guideline applies to a lot of the stuff we do here in terms of - of having the intuitions for quote triage end quote the thing which worries me about the wiki kind of approach is you\u0027ve got to be sure that whatever that stuff is and however you presented which makes much less difference is carefully reviewed so it\u0027s actually right yep this is Andrew Sullivan so or - I don\u0027t know um maybe what I will say is I\u0027m a little bit worried about something that is going on spoken here because there were you know we\u0027ve had a couple of suggestions there are lots of other resources outside of our community which is true there are lots of people who are working on these things which are true and now there\u0027s the suggestion for a document here and I think it\u0027s worth noting that one of the problems that we\u0027ve had is that we are not alone in this space but there are a number of people who seem to want to own it and so one question that I guess I have if we\u0027re going to tackle it with either of these techniques or both is what we\u0027re gonna do if somebody comes along and says none of you people are qualified to do this and none of you people should be doing it and please sit down and shut up and go away and let us take back our our proper area of expertise and I\u0027m I don\u0027t want to get into the question of whether there is such a proper area of expertise or whether any of the experts in question actually have that expertise but what do we do about that if somebody comes along and points out that actually we\u0027re not that qualified for it admitting that as a matter of fact we probably aren\u0027t sounds like a liaison issue not something that worker bees would necessarily have to focus on I don\u0027t know okay so we punt it to the IAB that doesn\u0027t you know what what is it what\u0027s the expression hope is not a plan this is Adam Roach um just I think if a group came to us and said you know we phrasing what you said they\u0027re effectively stopped trying to get this right we would say okay but it\u0027s a none company\u0027s incumbent on you now to take on the load of making sure that we do and I think that would actually not be a terrible outcome assuming they actually were experts that\u0027s why I call be audited at the end it\u0027s Hardy with a hopeful response to all of this is that yes getting this perfect is going to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:33",
    "text": "extraordinarily difficult getting the situation to be better than where it is today might not be and I think that the first suggestion here to make sure that we have a structured way of ensuring that this review occurs would make things better than where we are today and that building up the resources around that structured review over time would involve both building up documentation so that things which are currently verbal knowledge in a small number of folks experience would be broadened out into that review team and also building up the connections between particular expertise outside the ITF and bringing it in time can can take place over time we don\u0027t have to run up against this problem and say I hit my head on the bricks and now I\u0027m going to sit down we we can say okay there\u0027s some grout I can start pulling it at this particular brick get it a little bit better and and move on from there so I think that there are some some action items we can take from this that really do result in things getting better without necessarily us fooling ourselves that they\u0027re going to resolve the entire problem I mean I had a conversation at one of the ICANN meetings with a language expert in Ethiopian languages which cost multiple different language families using a single script a different problem than the one John was just alluding to and it just reminds you that it\u0027s always a little bit worse than you thought in the internationalization world well so I don\u0027t think trying to come up in this room or in general with the grand unifying theory of internationalization is likely to result in anything but a quick headache so I think we ought to be looking at what makes tomorrow better ELISA Cooper here here I just want to flag sort of the theme that I\u0027ve heard this discussion is in today just it for people to keep it in mind as if this work goes for it as it gets described and that has to do with the notion of sort of exclusivity in terms of who can do this work and just how you know incredibly challenging and difficult it is to get right all of the things which are all true but if the notion is to eventually try to involve more people in this work and inspire people to look at this area and say hey there\u0027s some hard problems maybe those would be fun to work on maybe I would find them compelling as somebody who is new to networking or natural languages or both I think we need to be very careful about how we frame this so that it there can eventually be a pipeline of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:33",
    "text": "people who could be in a position to contribute to this even if they can\u0027t do so today and I think this is Peters and Andre I think that gets back to what ted is talking about which is incremental improvement we are where our base is very low right now we were very ad hoc we don\u0027t bring people along into the into learning about these things I think if we had more structure a little bit more structure around it and we could try to bring lift up the level of knowledge about some of the folks that participate that would be great it is a very difficult area I\u0027ve been trying to learn about this for the last 10 years or so and I feel like don\u0027t know very much so it\u0027s because there is a lot of complexity which Donna\u0027s going to now tell us about no actually I was going to say something quite contradictory I don\u0027t believe that this work is fundamentally harder than a deep understanding of for example internet routing and what all the issues are there it\u0027s just different and our difficulty is that we have not a lot but a reasonable number of people here who have that level of understanding of of internet routing and we have a much smaller number of people here who have that level understanding of this problem in part because it isn\u0027t taught in computer science network engineering school ah the other observation is that I am all in favor from making incremental improvements but what stimulated Patrick\u0027s and my request for this off was the fact that ultimately a binary decision has to be made by the area directors in the is G and that binary decision is about whether or not we are ready and competent to review any particular document and that decision may have some fuzzy edges but it\u0027s ultimately not a making things a little bit better kind of decision it\u0027s say when are things good enough decision so we are right at time and I think we can just creep over a minute or two to at least for us to express what we\u0027re getting a sense of from the room I\u0027ve first heard that people seem to think that a director at a group of some sort is an appropriate thing to undertake it\u0027s gonna have a range of tasks maybe with a range of participant types which include triage include some more expert review include the ability to maybe give a document or a particular issue to a super expert to help with a particular gnarly issue I\u0027m also hearing that an internationalization RFC is not going to be the target as much as some sort of internationalization documentation which might involve an RFC might involve some more dynamic text and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:35",
    "text": "there getting a group together to work on that would be a good thing anything else you\u0027ve heard or anything from the floor that we have missed anything else that the ADEs need to hear I mean I I think well and I mean we can do a hand raising exercise to see what constituencies there are but do you care I mean I think we need to at least develop the discussion so that people get a better idea of what they might be volunteering for but I think in the long term we\u0027re going to want people who are interested to learn enough to triage people who are interested to learn enough to well well as I did when I was young and stupid decide to implement an international text editor and and so I\u0027ve learned to hunt and peck at least four scripts John but you know you see where that\u0027s gotten me and you know and then people who are willing to contribute expertise which I don\u0027t think is generally in this room okay so high level and I\u0027ll split it into high level who has time and inclination to be learn enough to triage and part to time and inclination to be more expert like folks so the first who is inclined to try and learn to triage and be part of such a team okay so I\u0027m seeing five hands in eight yeah okay so a smallish group are there folks in the room who feel like they have the time and inclination to learn more deep expertise and contribute to such reviews and and yes about the same number and different people note so we\u0027re talking in the dozen ish category and for what that\u0027s worth to forming such group yeah the the where the purchase order goes and what the hourly rate is is always interesting Stewart Stewart Cheshire I\u0027m gonna offer a third option which is I\u0027ve noticed that we\u0027ve got more students attending with things like a an hour W running I\u0027m prepared to be an ambassador recruiting some of the younger students who are asking how can I contribute to the IETF and I don\u0027t have the time status on myself but I think all of us in this room can spread the word to other people yes I like that idea very much ah so right so yes and so part of next steps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:39",
    "text": "which Harold just mentioned is what form are willing to use to continue this discussion and we have a mailing list do we need to do something in addition to that and what are our timeframes for next steps he turns to the ADEs who might be implicated I think a mailing this is probably just trying for this next steps I think I want to confer with my co 80s to sort of figure out what a reasonably forward here is I don\u0027t think it can take a lot of time because it was you know I think the messages we heard who were relatively clear but I just want to make sure on the same page first we are five minutes over anyone want to keep us here or go get your cookies go get your cookies thank you all thank you did anyone not sign the blue sheets yes blue sheets please make their way up to the front they\u0027re right in front of you yes oh gee has-been yes "
  }
]