[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "so the should we start or we wait one minute more maybe we can wait a minute yeah okay now okay I think we can start do not don't delay the meeting time so welcome to the ITF Ro inter meeting uh Please be aware of the not well this meeting is aligned with the ITF policies and the notwell we are not going to read it here but you should be aware that this meeting are align with those um rules"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "and as well H we expect that everyone treat each other with respect and um in professional way so these are the resources for remote participation please H volunteer to for minute the link of the notes are in the chat as well uh this is the agenda for today uh this introduction then we are going to mention the status of the r rnfd mopex enrollment priority and NSA extension um finally with the Open Floor some comments on that okay H so for draft status how the varable was set to ad evaluate ation um the projection was submitted to the isg and the routing directory review was addressed we are waiting for the sue the r directory reviewer to reply the version 34 address or the concerns of the reg then for NSA uh it's in progress issues are being addressed um then enrollment priority as well is in progress as mopex as well has open issues that has to be addressed there rnfd as well then the draft that are waiting for attention are the capabilities and the RO acknowledge uh what does this mean waiting for attention"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that um basically are expired and need to be work on yes yeah I was just going to give a different answer but yeah the just nobody's working on them they're waiting hello by the way I haven't said hello yet and Pascal joining as well and we just Michael yes I think Michael go on back but he'll be back yeah okay more questions okay then we proceed Milestones were not changed since the last time they were updated in January um comments okay so there are a Open tickets in jeub for mopex we have two tickets rnfd four tickets NC extension we have two tickets and enrollment priority two tickets and those we believe that been address it okay for regular meetings we aim for half meeting every two months um so the next meeting will be April May we will make a Google for dates in both months and let's see um what is the day that we decide some thoughts on this yeah yeah we can talk directly yes so for me it's fine yes please uh you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "can some comment no no it was just this okay sorry uh okay further comments no okay um uh this erata from the MR H tra was verified so thank you Dominique for help improve the document see yeah actually that was a consequence of the NSA drift by RS which prompted me to go back and read RFC 6719 again and I figured oh something's not right there so thanks Aris as well so I I created a problem and it uh cascaded into other places as well right yeah we're making the the whole thing better so that's good great thank you further comments okay we proceed with the rnfd basically the status is that um we have got four reviews uh from the routing directorate Security directorate review for Anan and carless so every review has a ticket to be tracked and all these reviews are being addresses the out to confirm us on that and um um there are change in the draft but is it's not yet published um when it's ready um the author will be publishing the draft course and then the next steps after this reviews being addressed we are going to issue the working Ras called um the then the shaper we follow up and then submit to the isg um comments or suggestions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "okay um then for mopix we have mopic now Dominque um okay well the agenda was different but never mind um so yeah last time we at the interim we discussed the mopex uh stuff and the issue 28 is about reusing the same numbers for the old um I mean the existing values for mop within the extended field mopex and um so I said I would provide some text which I'm working on these days um so I expect something soon on that in within a few days I've just said set up the the fork on GitHub and get repo on my computer and started uh hacking the text uh but anyway it would be good if we have something somebody else uh willing to read or comment or contribute text or work with me so if anybody's interested please let me know um I might take a look but I'm between this and the en enrollment priority which I had also read in the past so I need to manage my time yeah I think you have already a lot on your plate if I'm not mistaken a bit maybe Pascal will uh read my Pros before we publish H in the chat Alber deir is happy to contribute good thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "aler do you want to introduce yourself since we are a very small group feel free to jump in yes do yes if you if you send me some post to to review I will I will look at itly very good Dominque did you hear me I'm not sure my mic works I mean I never know it it does thank you I heard you thank you very much I appreciate your offer and I'll take you on it and I see Alper introducing him himself in the chat so that's good thank you thanks for joining okay so yeah I'll uh that's soon text ready on on the GitHub Fork I'll send a pointer so you can have a look and we can discuss it very good thank you for the contact information Alper okay thank you Dominque further comments or questions okay uh then we can go to the enrollment priority um so last version was from November H we got the security directory review and the routing directory review the security director review some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the reviewer outlined some issues and the ticket 18 track them and the wrote in director review just some needs and the ticket 19 track it we have assigned or we have asked uh to reviewers for review this document but we have not get answer yet anyway we we keep um getting uh asking people for review this document and then after uh have addressed that we will issue the working group last called and working the shepher to publish some comments or questions okay Michael is not now here but yeah um I think he's up to the date with the status of the document so we proceed s for NSA extension am uh yes well it's very simple I think nothing has Chang since last time sorry yeah I didn't manage to work on it so the idea is to to create a shorter version of the draft to basically remove the dependence on Mr Hof specifically to make it as a generic technique let's see if if that makes sense or not this is what Pascal had proposed last time if I remember correctly yes great okay great thank you further comments or questions okay so I think in open floor was a fast meeting someone some comments comments have some comments or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "questions um sorry I was taking notes um yeah I just want to mention again I reiterate that I intend to step down as a coacher and I need to be well I'd love to be relieved uh on June 1st because uh I might be of grade for some time after that so not being able to uh assume the the duties of a co-chair so that's my uh statement and I know we have a candidate um I'm not uh filled in as to what the process is for uh appointing uh co-chair uh candidate and the John has an ad didn't come back to us to our emails asking what the process is um I may find the information another way I I don't know sorry I wish I could say more at this meeting but right now this is the status okay guys thank you very much Pascal uh yes there there's still the the review of the rod projection um do you have any news on thatp H we have writing wrting to sue to the reviewer and we are waiting for her replay as soon as I have it I wrote her in January and she said that she was a bit busy and that she will review it and get back to us so I'm still we are we are waiting we understand that she's very busy probably more now that is in we have the next ITF soon but I will keep a p here so um but yeah as soon as uh we learn"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "something we will let you know anyway I put you in CC in the emails thank you in thank you so much yes thank you some further comment or questions okay so next step will be to send the doodle for the next interim meeting in April or May okay thank you very much to everyone and I hope to see you in the ATF 11 n have a nice day take care thank you if anybody can fill the notes on enrollment par I was taking notes on M at the time so if you can okay I will do it okay very good thank you thank you thank you all thank you bye bye by bye bye byebye"
  }
]
