[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "Alright. Welcome everyone to the hundred and sixteenth edition of the ops area working group and joint ops area meeting. We are your host, I'm Joe Clark. Chen, and hen bur were here the chairs. We have got one heck of an agenda today. So let's just get right into it. This is an Etf meeting as such it is covered by the note well which governs all of your contributions and participation here at the meeting. One thing to pay particular attention to is we are respective organization we're respectful. So be sure do you treat others with respect give them the time that you would expect to receive as you make your contributions. And there there is all the information that you will need to understand the well and participate. You may also notice a Qr code there on the screen. I see Alex taking a picture of it. Those our virtual blue sheets So definitely be sure to use that to be in the meeting. Speaking of being in the meeting, we will queue to the mic using the neat echo queuing tool So if you go to the agenda page off of the I t f dot org, one sixteen page, you'll see the ability to launch the either the mobile or the full meeting participation. So before you join the queue either virtually or person, please be sure to virtually raise your hand. That way, we all stand in the same line We also have virtual transcription service going on. It's been pointed out. It's not Perfect. But it is great to have something helping us out, hank and Rob have also agreed to do some minute taking for us. So we will have our our usual action item list and things of that nature. In terms of the agenda, we did post it we are over overtime"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "There were three presentations by... I I know Luis and Chin in particular, there was one other we will almost certainly not have time for those presentations. However, Benoit gave us some time back so we'll we'll go as quickly as we can through things. We will use the timer but just be aware that we we we have more presentations than we have time for. This is us. We've already gone through some of this We are using Zulu as well, you can launch that off of the meeting off the meeting page to do the chat and we'll be monitoring that here in the tool. In terms of our updates, real quick, no new Rf published, but we have a lot in the queue. And Rob has been diligently working through many of those. In terms of the things that are in the Editor queue as well as the things that to are now in the G's lab for publication. We did get a update to the Tac plus Tls draft, and I thank the authors and and reviewers like Alan, who have have gone through that. I would ask that more people review that. This was one of the things that that prompted us to do the informational Tactics plus draft in the first place so that we could get some real security around Tac We have one document in adoption call that is the Dm L draft. So please be sure to read that and reply on list. Any other updates gentlemen? Alright. With that, let us get right into the agenda You've just heard some in trivia just gonna click through here. You can see where we are These last three Chi phone Luis and Chong thing, almost certainly, I'm sorry we moved"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "probably won't have time. We do have some ops area items to discuss. Any bashing of this agenda before before I hand things over to Thomas. Great. Thomas, if you wouldn't mind kicking us off. Good morning, everybody. Thanks a lot. Good. So this is the on passed delay in Ip fix, Next slide, please. So seeing three are since since adoption with did some minor changes on the draft. So we extended the introduction section to have also the terminology from the performance which is to three. We collected some small small needs increased the ip entity date type size based on tests real life implementations adjusted some of the data type semantics also described in the operational consideration section how they reduced size encoding is applicable. And according to Clicks input we are detailing there already existing Io application section just to make sure that there is no there. We removed... There's also something from there. From the deployments we have in our lap that we removed the nano second because we saw that it's it's not very feasible. Micro seconds is it's good enough to cover all of the use cases. And on we had on the It ikea hack"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "three implementation, which I will describe in the later side and we don't that the implementation start section. Next slide, please? So this was one of two top apologies. We were running in in the lab. So these are two vendors of Cisco and huawei we while huawei we already while both vendors implemented Six trough, which is now at and huawei I implemented own passed delay measurement and we had two six traffic engineer pass while one path is crossing a link which has artificially high delay And we had Pm Ct to the Pm city data collection basically calculating the me the main delta micro seconds based on the delay delta micro seconds. Dividing that in from the packet account And on another top luxury tv based on Vp. We had an implementation using Au face type option Next slide please. So this is just a screenshot showing some... Somebody's also on the top left side, you see basically found that s a h had up two different seat lists, so you can see from a data plane perspective when we did the failover to the second pass. While on number two, you see, basically, the delay grouped by note. So as soon as basically we are switching them the path to to at the end to another note you see the the increased delay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "and on number three, you're seeing basically since the failover is triggered by the Pg overlay So layer three Vpn, we were using P p Monitoring to make that that visible. On the high hand side, we were also using some detection so basically using that kind of operational metrics and showing the the use case that actually the verification of such top policy changes and how it's affecting the overall delay can be automated. Next slide, please. So So that's the current status to, so we have to network render implementation, one data collection implementation. And we are planning for the next after version also to call to add some some examples for the data recording and the data templates. Any questions or comments? Will be highly appreciated. Thanks. Thanks, Thomas. I also just that's the fact that you're working on implementation. So I I think great to see operators bring the problems and work in the Hack on implementation. So appreciate that. Thanks a lot. Cool. Thank you very much. Next up, we have med okay. So ian This is for to give the, I would say the of of the work we have done with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "also tier on the review of the Ip fix three. So next slide please, So last time we the do have to about the Tc flag long that's have only one one I would say draft and one you has to do but when you come home my I have to do a on on the on the. So next slide, please. There, I would say, one issue that we reported this on the cheapest tab. But when we sit down we've been while we ago out that there is, I would say more than that in your. So if you want to do is really cleaner And I would say it fix a lot of issue that we have in the in the registry. We have to do more more efforts So we we don't have it on a plan to how to proceed. Something that can be really pragmatic and not to to to dolby the ocean there. So the the planet close to the td working and that was by major production for the Rf seventy one. Twenty need twenty five is to to progress the that as it has not an existing Rf, in the meantime, three is a second trial that we can the really I would say focus The focus will will be mel on, I would say fixing in small staff and not, I would say define new information elements. And if it happened that we figure out that there is a need to define new information elements we the plan was to move than a separate documents. And the third one and this is that to to see as the sample fixes May or may not be I would say publish as And to be honest with you, I wanted to plug the document as soon as I could I publish it. Then I will will give you the the a update on that. Next slide, please, So when we started to decide to implement the that plan. So the Rc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "it on the seventy one three twenty five, so it was center there. We I would see I that we received from the the working group. And also we have implemented I we say the resolution from the issue that we were left here in the the last Meeting. So we are... We know we go for a document product update. And this document is really ready for the working of last call. And the we also a second document. This is the what we call the. This is... Yeah, fixing the the discussion mini information elements. Fixing pointers point to existing in would say real street when when really to do this once, so we avoid having I we say fixed a really stable or at the side and we that we we received from the experts that for war responsive in the in review on this document. Next slide, please. And we all of the issue that we found in the simple effects there are two one that are really critical the one about the session hit and the other one about the dc options. So in one of the internal version we have with Benoit we played with the retail design that tried to used existing ones, But we figured out that this is... This is it doesn't work given the limitation we have already in the Ip specification that does not make an assumption about the order of the elements. So we we went for, I would say new information elements too that will I would say, with new points for Adi, these two these two these two elements. Basically the issue that we are not covering the fall, Would say range of cpu option than the session inhaler. And also there is no link between the the view that has Ip on the on the physical option on the Ip your extension inhaler and what is really assigned by the the working books who are working on on on this on on the sub. And the the the the fraud document which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "Bonus. This is something what we work with with You. This is to provide. I we said the protocol priority for the Udp as you know, or you may know Udp also has options. And this is a working of the, I which just started be done in Tc since many years now and recently it is it is it is the working of plus Easily. So it provide you to to to place some information in the Udp. Not in the header star, but in the in the trailer, and we designed the options that will be mimic what we have in options. So The same design will be a leverage for Udp option as well. Next five please. So in in the second slide mentioned, that for the the planet had in mind is just to... Yeah. Once you have this three d give it to the expert. We have a reference for the changes and and we are done. But unfortunately, we can do that and we will be obliged. If you want to fix these problems we have in the Ip three because many of these information elements was set by the Consensus, we need to modify them via consensus etcetera. So we need to publish the document as well. So next slide, please So the the is is is is closed to the R the update for the rs one, twenty is really ready for the working of plus. So I would like if you're working up can can just use that one. And to request the adoption of for the full set of the Ids, they simple effects is the Ip six accessing head tcp option and for the options. Just as as a note for this for the last to documents we may just merge them about for logistic matters, because I don't want that the the Option and the extension to be still because of the norma dependency of the which, we working up. I prefer to them so that we are really... I would say sure that there is no delay for provided for publishing the tcp option the basics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "slash headers. And then then for for the report on this on this point on this work I don't know if if been was in for the to to to mention. We have two in the queue, Thomas. Yeah. Thomas car from Swiss. First of all, thanks a lot for for this work. I think this is really very helpful. Have just one comment on the Ip six extension header. So if I understood correctly, like, we have currently and also in your proposal, the limitation that basic for each extension type, So there can be only one occurrence. So if you're addressing this in a new element, ip element, it will be good to consider that we can support multiple types in in in in a packet. Yeah. Thanks. Just indeed comment or yes. That I can I can remember the of the account when? Yeah. We'll do that. Yeah. Thanks. So yeah. Just as as you you you about the extension inhibitors Actually, we are we fixed some issues in with the the existing information elements in the simple fixes, So basically to to to define your history three, because we don't have any anyone so far. And just we have done to checks with the the the day between what we have in the And what is we currently assigned in the by the the six poly. So We have the request for this. So this will be cleaned for the existing ones. That's for the new ones, will use the same, but just that do play with some code in there that we can cover the full range when there there there will be new ones that we will come in. What's your point is taken and you will take that into account. Thanks a lot. And yeah. And it's not another command. This is not only specific to this one because also for the options, you... And for the other object that you have in the Ip three, we you may have a value having the occurrence of the objects in the itself. But so I will just need to discuss with Benoit how we covered this one whether specifically specifically for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "be option... For the exception here, do I sell. Or to be coming to other information elements there. So what to here? It's Scott you doing this and thought cleaning up the think that's great. I understand that process slightly harder because of how it's to set up on things. So my contrary read to the working group. I think the case is where we have stuff like this. We just trying to sort of fix things get things going. Let's try not put too much processing there let's get these things documented. You talk adopted and move through relatively quickly is my desire. Tech I think been benoit you're you're out. So I did see a request for the the working group last call. Makes sense. And it seems like that there is as Rob mentioned there is desire to not only fix this from a an overall Standpoint, but interest in the working group. So we will raise it on list. When we get back from My Yokohama. Thank you. Thanks for giving time back. Next up, we have pronounced separate? Do we have a speaker his remote. I don't see Anyone remote? See if we have any of the speakers sure Yeah. I guess we will defer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "Last chance speaker on this on Ip flow information exports, now. Okay. One, I think you're next then. What's that? Alright. You are on. Where is it? Single. Here it is. Sorry about that. Hello. So I'm jean, I would be presenting this this draft in behalf of the cells. So next slide please. So the the quickly call the the the context. What we want to do is to be able to have a characterization of how the data that we have has been corrected. And there are many reasons for that. But mainly need it idea to be able to understand if there is a some words in the time series in database. While it's there for instance. This is the kind of example. That we want to be able to do. So next next slide, please. So this is the very simple example. I have and the statues? And if I don't have a new update on the, on the statues. Is it because did not move. Is it because there was a problem in the correction? Is it actually normal because it's it's it's unchanged. So this is the the kind of question that we want to be able to to answer we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "So next slide, please. So the Idea was to propose that a manifesting two parts. One part which is the the platform from manifest, which is about the platform. So the it idea is that depending on the platform you might have specific bugs. So you want to guide completely the platform that you have in order of that later, you can go back and say, oh, yes, in direction that this bag. So you you can have all information that you need. And then the data connection, which is more specific to yan subscription actually where you connect have the information about that subscription in particular. Like hours is configured and performing. And so basically, it is that these too many must be you be when you have some data in your database at the end, you must be able to lean back to the region data manifest. And next slide, please. So we you did some changes in the introduction since the last iteration. And mainly the thing that are important is that we propose use case one very important use case is the... Of course, the the data principle, which means that You're not just giving some data? Your some data and you are explaining what this data means? So it means you need to pay the semantics. You need to screen out they were corrected and so on and you need to export that in a way that your? Can actually use the data that you're? So this is the two antibodies that do repeat do this draft. And there's we want to clarify that the goal of this draft is to be able to store outside of the device, so it's not really device mode. It's something that we want to to be able to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "start independently in that sense, It's more like a network model. And it could be that's in a transition period, if it's not supported by device, it's okay. Maybe even if it's Could be supported by the correct, but to be much simpler from a correct point of view if the device could export this manifest directly. But still, the would be like kind of a network model. So next slide please. So this is the the change that we did in order, to make that clear we the change in the model. So now instead of having okay from, that is just one model on the device. We medical by adding in index on the platform. Each platform being by an Id Of course, when we are an id idea it means that we need to again, have some kind of advantage where this id is to confirm. So our suggestion for that is to reduce this his name, but It's more like a suggestion. I don't think you want to enforce that. Idea is, this platform should be managed by because they will have a way to that their own platform. So this is Yes. This is the pack that So we have this eighty. The there's of changed it by is to add the place number. Then we removed the dependency and the young packages at least because that was causing holes. And we added thirty stuff things because this is necessary for young push or Eighty six thirty nine."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "So we need to have this and this is actually property of the platform. So we it in the platform manifest. I see v. I think V was in the queue for the next presentation so that trying to... But Ben out, do you have any question on this Next slide, please, then. So for the that collection, we did the same change as deals one, which is the That's A as a as an index it's a network view as well. And it has some to the to the platform model course the platform made. So there's team which is needed for Eighty six thirty nine and do data as store, which is needed for Eighty six forty one. And so we switched from some kind of generic model to actually reusing the push model? So So we have the the notion of subscription and the same ta. And the additional field is the current period, which is didn't yes? For subscription if the period at which we are sending updates is the same as the one that was subscribed. Sometimes some device might decide that because they already they cannot or not the the the the popular the subscription. So they will take a larger. But still as dates. Okay next slide please. So We have some improvements and actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "gave me some insight on this, but it's not in the last yet, but will be really soon about the. And so we have some question. So we have a technical end problem, which is that when we when we update when we want to reuse the yang with, it's very hard to... Well we can import the model of course, but then we can only include the grouping and if you have a in the grouping of something like that, and you find instance you switch from device model to network model There there is a good chance that your has will not be working anymore. So I don't know if you're I is any kind of And now two to solve this problem. Or if it's kind of okay to copy be paste of the model and we do the same, but network level instead of sweet? Can you use the keep amount? Moment moment that I seen I think there is a new one. It's at time. It's not time at the design time. Here would really like to have this the same thing. So Okay. So I guess So one of the things that Yang was looking at. I think one things very got so stuck. Not somebody discussing and so resolve was trying to do something along the lines of I don't quite have to design time but design time scheme amounts. A survey idea of the young manufacturers you could now describe what the possible modules you see mounted particular points. Whether that solves all issues at don't know certainly, if you wanted do, like, leave reps across modules you'd have problems, but but that is maybe a possibility. Sc out does that complexity here where it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "you got to a simpler solution. But just to check understand, the idea that these models are used both on on the device and off the device. Now upgrade out the intention. I I see that demo was not like had. I said, rob in Cisco. Sorry. Okay. So I think that's sort from email. Yes. Last slide just to say of course, you would like to request for more adoption. Position that's once we have the next version of this slide, we should be of the of the task we should be ready. So... Yeah. That's that's all of for me. Joe Fox Cisco as a contributor on your platform Id is a string. And you you said sis name might be a suggestion and what is the... What if I change the name of my device is it important to correlate this over time and make sure that it it always stays with the device that I'm monitor. I get a little nervous when I see a lot of strings that feel ne, and not a lot of guidance. So I'm curious what what your thoughts are there. Yeah. So that's that's the issue. So Ideally, we should have some kind of maybe model where we could have a different, and then it would be okay to name that must exist in the. I mean, maybe that's something that we we should try to to to go for. But I I don't see the the inventory part being ready yet. So this is the... I think the first thing And then regarding the whether if the name changed that's from change. Well, actually, yes, because if you say, I've got this this packet this message."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "And I got it from this device, then you want to be able to go take the name of the device and go in your data database for the platform manifest with that name. And that should be here. Okay. So I I agree on on on the image It sounds like maybe there is some work that's going to start being cod on inventory. And with without the guidance though, if if I look that name up, I may not know exactly like, one vendor may do it one way one vendor may do it either way. I would just hope that ultimately, if there isn't something to hand it to, there's some strong guidance on what this should be. So there's some consistency So I can look it up, and I can tie it to something. Specific and and the same thing over time. Yeah. But... Yeah I think here it's kind of the place where we define it in the platform manifest and in the data manifest we have to it So this is the way we say, okay. We should we should be able about to link the two. This is the way we moderate it yep thomas Swiss maybe just one comment we have been debating this and let's say, the other option would be at the moment to use actually the Ip which is exposing the metrics from the device, but since the router can have many Ip addresses, you know, from where the metrics can be exposed we saw probably identifying the note by the the disease name. Might be for the moment the best option, but so you have we the valid valid point how to identify that out. From Huawei. Okay. Hear me. Yeah. Perfect. Yeah. Actually, We have been working on that network inventory and we also noticed there some work in say can't work. But they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "trying to, like, solve the, like, abstract the device from the only from Hot perspective. So I'm So I think this work is going on, and and I noticed there are some, like, platform specific attributes like some software and and and also the Os tab I think it's in. So it that can be like, reused between and consistency. Between this models. Rob are you still in queue? Okay. On the just as c chair on on what you looking for adoption, I think this something we can we can raise on list as as an action. I I've seen quite a bit of of feedback or discussion about this already. Probably have time for one question. No. Okay. We're gonna go back to Then kat on the previous somewhere. Find it. I think this is it. Yep yep. Thanks, so. Yeah. Can you hear me? We can. Perfect. Okay. Thank you so much. Good morning good afternoon and good evening Everyone. Chai here I'll I'll be presenting updates to the draft. On behalf of my fellow quarters. Next week, please. So we'll go a quick recap of what this draft is about. So every network will eventually encounter issues like packet loss from time to time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "You know, multi layer network, it a studio and money work to localize and root cause, traffic black issues. In our avoid the tedious workflow drop drop package may be subject to deep inspection along the forwarding path. And sent to a host or a software queue. Along with the type of exception the in incoming and going interface information and as a relevant data. So this can help network operators immediately. I I understand the root cause and can facilitate automation to fix underlying issues. Now this proposal was introduced and idea one zero nine and was last presented an It one time. Some of the Ip effects information elements already exist. And this draft defines for new information limits. For for the sake for the same for the sake of the same solution. That is the forwarding exception code, the forwarding next Id. The forwarding look type. And underlying ingress interface. We've there's quite a few number of comments that we have comments that we received during and after it month time, Next slide, please. So there is a comment from Thomas. Suggesting extending the forwarding exception code to include all the categories from information element eighty nine, that is forward forwarded dropped and consumed. And additionally, I think Thomas also asked us to consider including the existing points from information nine in the forwarding exception code. To support Migration park that device does not need to export the information elements. Have we it... Address this in the draft by modifying section four four dot two dot one, the forwarding exception code. To and change that to forwarding status score."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "And incorporated all the existing categories from in from from information element. Twenty nine. Next there was a comment from Jeff. Asking if we can include a way to distinguish drops in in the data pipeline line. In in the packet. And ip believe tac may contain some additional information to classify which lookup failed in the internal pipeline. This internal classification may be useful for debugging. And the way we have... We have addressed this in the draft by adding such and four four point two point three the forwarding lookup type. To stream the last look up that is performed, on the package in the spot. Additionally, we we saw the need to add a new information element to report and underlying Ingress interface index which the... Which the child member index of an aggregated Ethernet interface. In case of an ethernet interface being an ingress interface. When a packet is being processed by by that interface. And we took care of a few a few statements here there as well. So with respect to next steps, So we are requesting some motor view feedback and and comments from the working group and some working group adoption after after after the review. That's all I have any questions. Questions? Since I don't recall seeing a lot of discussion on this Hank, would you mind raising a pole with the working group members here to see... Do people find this is this work interesting? Is there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "Is there a desire to work on this in the ops area working group? We've got some time. So I would be curious. And this works contact specific. Yes. Things seem to have slowed. So of the people who participated. There was some desire overwhelming other the people participated think this is interesting work. And we can certainly do a a more formal call for option. Thanks. We still do have a few minutes if there are any questions on this draft. This is amazing. I I really thought we would run out of time and look at all you giving back so much time. I love it. Thank you. Generous crowd here in Yokohama Okay. Like, Thank you. Next up, I think med your back Yep. I think this is service attachments. I swear I'm clicking share."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Okay. Hold on. Sorry. That's it's on me. I'm the guy who's keeping us from moving forward. Let's try this again. There we go. Thank you. You, Joe. So Yeah. Try to to give back five minutes for for reason and? About Because. Understand work we are doing about the attachment circuit bureau and, this is stands for service attachment points. Next slide, please. So this this is a world that we are doing collectively with the, I would say other people from vendors and the creators to bid on the various pieces that we we have built here in the York hotel working group. One of them is the the service point. So just as a reminder, the service points. This is what we... Specifically reference points that are facing the customers, and this is where the services deliver to the customers or where you are ready to deliver services to the to the customer. So what's up when you expose it to... Do your... I would say, x not Apis, does not mean that the service is actually put into effect or it is running or not. So we are not making any assumptions on the studies of the service that are down to your to this app. So this is really important from I would say, a operational points, because otherwise, we will be making some assumptions that would be handled the way your model will be will be used. The apps are not specific to our given service by default or not. So it's opportunity to though correctly you five you can build or you can associate a sub for a given service. Or you can multiplex multiple services over the the same. And the sub they are connected to to another I say device or functions, that devices can be, would say physical or it can be a local."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "And that's one can be an function it can be an New we Or call it. So can there is no assumptions on the the other, I would say component the three minutes your subs in the other in any other files. And what we call the logical constraints that up to the other device or components, this is what we call the attachment circuits. So we are obstructed does that notion to to something, which is really logical. To I would say, graph your subs to the customer to customer device. So multiple, I would say additional can be built down to the to the head to the same sack, And the same, it can see multiple peers. That there's no one to one not between a sub that is insisted at the network side And the other one it can be in the customer customer side. So for example, if you are using, I would say a broadcast domain, you can have once you could start in Your p, for example, that can see in multiple cities. And all of those are seen as being, I would say connected to one single attachment circuit So again, this is important in terms of the model, because otherwise, we will handled the way, I would say the the the models are are are be used. And the same way, you can have multiple additional under the same subs, we are not making assumptions that each time you will connect your or giving interface in your network to we said an adjacent customer device. That you need or your mask yet definite secrets. Again, This is out to the operators. This is a guideline line that I'll at to them But at least in the model, we are not making this these assumptions. And then there is this... I said this third notion this is what we call the bears. The bills are really done there. This is the links, the physical connectivity that you you had between the equipment. We are trying to generalize the mission of the bearer to be... What we... What you required set up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "over which you can run your attachment circuits. So over the same bearer, you can I would say connect for example like cable or wireless you on on on the pick your favorite, you can run multiple attachment secrets over the the same barrier? Next slide, please, So once we have said, I would said, this overall context we we have service attachment points. We have a that then we have the beers, then we are some version that are we are seeing in various... Is initiatives that are say Not here the e Etf. The first one is that some of the data models that we are seeing they are making some hud Not to say it I would say politely, in a correct assumption the attachment circuit, which are really probably ticket term of the climate of this model. For example, some of them they are just making yeah. Attached my I just need a little back of functions, and then I I I will servicenow no. Reality is that some... This is more subtle than than that There's a lot of complexity there in some situation. If you want to build your service, and deliver to your customer. There are some other models that are trying to overload some of the recent concept that we have find here you do some working and they see that there's and need there. So sorry for for that for that need. They are trying to reuse, I would say the the Peer Id as a of the logical. So the attachment will be notified, but it's peer sub Id. Which is sometimes if it will work, but in other situation, this this won't be, I would say that that's systematic. And the the third problem there, which is I would say more important is that there is a lack of constant between the where we are modeling the attachment circuits. If you pick, for example, Vpn vpn slice etcetera, Every of these models, they are building their own I say, easy structure. Why I manipulating this some objects? So you are presenting them in different way,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "there will be problems when we comes to not able this view in into the actual configuration of the network. So we need really... To have say a coherent view of this segments so that we will do yeah Would say the configuration, I would say. So the deviation can be difficult for example and providing here the example of the slice purpose because if you... The slice is just a service. And then when knew, for example, plus a a slice service you need to... I would say, translate it into actual configuration of network. And typically, This is down by To repair Den policy on there south Traffic you can, you can there. But at the end of the day, you need to map, by would say your slice service into vpn as let it be l two or l three So there's not to be done. And if we are sent the people that you that are billion yields training and these two n m you have to expose a mapping now we say function that will be specific to the service that that that we built over already is really I we say complexity find staff, and we need to I say to simplify as much as possible this interface will translate the service view into the network the network view. So there there are some. Again is a polite word. It do not say something else. And I would say the last the the other issue is that all these service models including the wires that we edited here in the Working group. In order to touch attachment circuits, you have to have a Or a service. So in the attachment circuit require having the service service that's in place, which is not always, I would say, through in all the operations that we are we are aware of. In some of the operation the the team that are emerging the connectivity, the base between the the p's and the infrastructure which is hosting, I would say the network functions or the cx are not the same. So we need to... There's is a need to have I would say an interface to control the attachment circuits first, And then when you create your service, just to bind, I would say the service to attachments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "You don't need to create first, the service before you start touching chain the attachments itself. And the last one, this is this is right to the work we have done here when we. Is that The first scope that we set for the we wanted it to be really very focused so that can be usable So we don't expose the glue between the subs and the attachments it it it can mean this just termination point. But you don't know what services they terminated. What town was we are to the customers. What it at we have from the the sub itself to the to the attachment circuit. So That glue is needed to be to to be completed and As you can see in the next slide, we are proposing we have a proposal for the working group together with with the group we we started to to this work. This is really I we say straightforward. If we want to have and coherent among all the models that are cut attachment circuits? We need our library to be able available for for them just to take if you need some of the types. Yes, we have a reference and and so that is avoided everyone, will define his own objects group the tags and so on. So we have... We defined we are proposing this attachment circuit canon model. Which is a a sort of library. And the second contribution This is what we call the dutch circuit service. So if we want explore the attachment service the service, This is... This is the way to go. And in this service model, We are trying to cover both operational models. The first one, is if you want to... I would say the integrated model in image that I want to define an own service model and I would like to control the attachment circuit that I am using in side that's very smaller. Yes. You can do that. But please use the group that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "goes into you because we want to ensure a consistent view of the attachment circuit. That's that's that's fine. It's our decision of the service that is model. And the other ones, which is out currently what we are recommend recommending on february connected This is what we called the surprise provisioning. We we are separating the of the service itself. From the provisioning of the provisioning and attachment circuits. And for that one, while exposing references, attachments circuit references and the bureau reference So in your serious placement request, You just need to define your service and then And given y there just to point the that will be provided to you by the attachment service service model. So this approach that that is exposing the references to the brewers and to attachment circuits is really, I would say optimal in the way that we are avoiding having aggression right node, it is right it's And the... And actually, we have another model which for the bill, but I'm not exposing here for... That's what the sec of, I would say simplicity. And the last contribution is to specify the network model for the attachment circuit. So this is the glue I was talking about in the previous slides, how we can connect these tabs to the attachment circuit, So that we can have. I would say the network view of the attachment circuits that are drafted the sub label. Next slide, please? So we said methodology for this work is the first one is to adhere as much as possible to the what we produced here in the upside working up the automation framework So that we can ease the map in between and the automated marketing between the service view into the network one and the network into the device model, We really use as much as possible the name of the yet know is much that the the the cross translation can be a straightforward. The second one is to leverage on this table I would say specific question so far. And the third to third aspect, which is important for this work, unlike what you have done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "for the for the War. That there are some specifics for the cloud that would a provisioning version there. So We are challenging some of the the way are configuring going the that's my to make sure that we are account some of the specifics for of the cloud cloud infrastructures. For example, the way the Bishop sessions are, I would say maintained on on. For example, in indeed three, or We are always assuming that is one single decision, for example, while in the new design, we we are not assuming that because we of some of the specifics that we are aware of about the the the cloud infrastructure. Next slide, please. Before we go to your uses, did you wanna address it Hollow question, or you wanna wait till the end? Did you hand it computer. This this is I would say some of the you which has scheduled us with the people who are doing with some work in the the run. By the way, I know that Yep. It yeah. This You would like to review this... I would say, the the slice service model which is fine in the Test working group and the various attached circuit data models to which various segments that that that you can have something which is ready modular, and they want that to be exposed to the 3g g so on. So this is really good for the Etf that the people they are trusting to work we are done on the And the... I would say did the logic care is that there is no need that it's is the defined, I would say, it's us model for for the same devices. For the same, I would say obvious you add manipulating. Next time, please. This is just a simple example to see that yeah. We are not just covering do usually all I would say, use cases that we have done here in Etf about the legacy Vpn. So this is a typical, I would say deployment which is done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "For example, if you want to go after we say Your, for example, with a cloud infrastructure, some failures, I would say cloud operators. Yeah. They can provide you a connection Id and then basically, you can create your attachments circuits and we are showing how we can meet this kind of say the this kind of of of deployment requirements. Next slide, please. Just an overview of the current works started so there is a lot of four that has that so far to I would say to fix of the issue that was where reported. This is really dynamic. We have I would say still some some working progress, but we are progressing really and in a go ship and a try that we will I would say have stable versions of the of the of the of did documents coming soon. Next slide, please. So this is for the the next step. So the are deal with for this four, so it would be good at the Idea I would say show that they are here in this voices. There is a room to to to I would say ensure consistency of the work of the additional circuits And there is a group we committed to work on this a good on it. And the last point is that we commit if this work is adopted here our go to to sync with the other working with especially the t bts working books that the you can sync how we slide service itself with the attachment. And that's that's my last tenants. Yes, thank you. It From away. One comment my question. The comment is, I think the grouping is is very useful to do. So I strongly support to move for around that. The comment is on the definition of Phase and all as the Isa upper don't really really need all discounts call is the difference And the link from Forty five, it looks like a special type of link It's it's it's it's it's... Yeah. We we can I would say? In term of of Tell, we discuss this with the... I would say with the auto"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "we can we we can use some... I say Even for this because see that's, you can just give it termination points and then we are to to define new one. But we need we say some specific items that to really focus on the specifics of this obvious. So that's why for example, we went in the past for the service tab. For the nineteen, forty five then. If you need more we the sub is of by the way, that that actually so that's not for the link is that the problem that for the people in their minds, they thing that the link is is physical. So it is just in terms of mortality. We if you want to see up concepts This is one of of the of the we same motivation for that. And the other one, is that we are trying to align with the that are already existed for the services days to pen for examples. And then the notion attachment circuit is really placed and massively use and implemented by I say the vendors there. So that's do to to that we are not defined which is new, but we are providing some I would say clarification because sometimes, yet secret is not what you think is circuit. So We need to do that exercise and what is important is not the word that we put there, but the definition we put behind So what really relay invite you is to start is to go to what we have there and build some receive some of the a review of that part. That is really important. And we are. So that's that's open for the working, if you want to to change or use another term. Francisco. So so I'm pleased to see this within happening I think it's good to evolve the animal model that so it's sort to put like a process question Are you just hoping to define a new young model that's adding on like, augmenting existing ones. Was any intention here to the, like, the service of account models at all is Not yet. it's just what the scope of the work here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "For for this work, we worked for million on circuits. Then maybe if the workload is enters in the future, is how we can leverage on on this one, for example to to where would say the update the interest and end, but we are not is not covered in the current scope. Purpose. Because I think one sort of generic issue I see in terms of how young is being evolved in It first, You say open, they have a very much evolving together quickly. Yeah. We have a much slow process of producing rf overseas. I think we somehow find Like bridge between the two. Fully agree with that. I think I med. There were two others in the queue, but I've asked to go to the list because we're we're over time. There was a comment from Adrian about overlap with teas I think we do need to have more discussion on list about this work and where it belongs Thank you. Yep. Thank you. Bow. know she knows the agenda? Yep. You It is bow inventory model for enterprise network. Don't have run. This. My name is Paul. I'm here to present this network inventory model on behalf of other the authors. This is the not new draft. We presented this last time. So next Next slide, please. Why this network is important here's some some use cases for this network inventory model. The first is that in one domain network management system may need this devices hud and software informations to doing some network management. For example, as, like, doing some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "network maintenance or or network has some problems then you need to identify the space hardware, component of staff components issues. The second is that like, in some enterprise network. They they're maybe be several domains one network bombing, but the other actually have could have security domains or some performance monitoring domains the separately collecting information from the network. But actually, these efforts are quite redundant, like, repeating the same message, but maybe representing different system different naming. So that's some issue we try to, like, fix that we try to modeling the devices from a hardware and software perspective. And more, like, consistency way. So next slide, please. When we're modeling in this, we we're trying to see what's existing work. In Ihs has been done. And what we found is that there are to other work, quite relevant why is in C camp working group they are trying to modeling device from hardware component. Perspective. And one in ups in group writing here, the name is asset l life cycle management. One piece of elmo draft is also modeling the network device from like, the more general way. And also covering not only the hardware, software, but also the configuration and status of the devices."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "And our job is mainly trying to cover the network device and also endpoint device and some physical link between these devices. So these are quite separate definition. And on the right, that's something my standing. About the three different droughts working on. And you can see that the overlap part is that the net for the network device obstruction. Like, like, the first C cam job based only focus on the hot piece. And as draft cover more things and has, like features, entitlement and incident usage and we working on is the network device from Hot and software pieces. So that's, like, some overlap. We can see from this inventory modeling perspective. So next slide, please. So What what I what I we understand about this for is that We feel like some quite defining a similar attributes, but using the different naming. So Here's So I have some, like questions to the working group. Like, should define some generalized components list? Like some components grouping to be reused in different work draft. Or we can define some device attributes grouping? So in that way, like, just like the hot I I think Jane, just presented that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "that manifested. Big some attributes can also be reused. In their draft. And the other issue is that whether we can model this inventory model based on eighty three forty five because if we need some physical cable connection? Obstruction. That's something missing from the just from the network model. So that's some issue that I think we still discussed between the the authors of the three drops. So Next slide, please. And we think, like, The drops are quite although, we have some overlaps, but they have some, like, can complementary each other. So we we like to We think this is useful and asking working group adoption and it more review on comments. Thanks. Alex Brook Brook, can you be sure to raise your hand on the tool, so we come in the line. Thank you. Alex. It's yeah. Alex feature. So think I think this is important work, but I I I have one comment actually mentioned in the end, the manifest work earlier. It seems actually good opportunity to really tie this together because Mh. It would be better to see tools separate models Yeah. It would be great. essentially modeling the same thing. So I think if this can be burst. Yeah. I think so things. Per comment. Mari? From Francisco. I just want to make a note about the overlap. Right? I will be presenting later for the ml, but we understand there is no overlap with inventory because we believe inventory remains in a different layer. And this is what is discussed as well in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "side meeting this week, we come to side yesterday day, one medium to come still this week. And our objective with the Ml is to d from the inventory discussions at the level of that physical layer or even application. We have another concept of services, but this remains a it should remain separately. Probably in the same discussion of the side meeting, but from the inventory inventory. Yeah. I understand your concern on this. I I actually discussed with some, like, some other, like, representatives from the meeting But the their concern is also that because we try to modeling the device from out there. Pieces, but they are thinking that the license and feature also need to be part of it too when like, identifying the, like, root cost of some, like, configuration course then it may need some, like, like how that like Microsoft what's the version of this software? And what license use, then you can finally identify the root cause. Of the the configuration. Yeah. That's something. I... But but I think we can, like, going apply to discuss. Right? We will keep it in the side discussions. Yes. I hope you have a I want to say just that it I I think as well use eight three four five and that you used the full old entities Like, one thing would be that I think there should be a kind between had assets and some assets like some, you know, for the south. Whole license. And you get close over to the mic. Having the common properties for systems device you know with all that I think it's a great idea. I would only be careful about layering there. And for example, traditional state said the link and things like that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "Where does it belong? Like, you know, I understand you are talking about physical. Yeah. Links here, probably user defined links. Mh in that case, like, if are looking at the operational states of the link, is there a normal layer to operational status. So maybe those things could be clear. In the draft, what you have. Yeah. I can add more text on. Robert Cisco. So just to sort update the working group there's been discussions on Inventory yang in on the yang list we have same set were interest have these things. And also we've had meetings this week. There's been a couple of meetings. I'm went one of them second. And from that, there seems to be quite lot of different interest in different entry inventory yeah and having with different working groups in overlap in different places. Some that work overlap. So there's a desire to try and get that together. And have a common base model and have different models to sort to augment into that. So I think there's sort of direction from that side meeting is the proposed set up a a short focused working group to focus on solving this problem of actually just getting the right people in the room to solve the issue of how to get a common model how these things will fit together. So so that's what's going on. If people are interested in that can you join the inventory Dash young maybe list and I think there might be another side meeting organized this week. But sure you can also be enough to send you the details. So but just to let you know what has happened. That's I so. I was gonna ask about the whole n thing that I saw. So Thank you. Yes. Please do join. Well, it's very much connected with this. It's not only about the aligning model. Maybe is not about aligning the different inventory report. I believe that we need to have a clear to draw the line between where this where not inventory etcetera because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "If we assume that inventor is whatever has to move with any data that is related to metal devices saying inventories is servicing. And that's something that we have to be very careful. And we have to probably, it will be advisable that this group that Rob was mentioning. Initially, takes a step back and trying to to precisely fan talking inventory and which is the relationship among the recent things because any and for sure, the inventory is yesterday discussing with those currently we were talking about the the sources of of of trust or something like that, or it's a road of the devices you have. I'm looking into that, and this is what we have by the way to do in Bm and all right now, is that I'll say, well, yeah. Somebody's taking care of the boxes, the cables, it seems that we have And link the cycle or whatever the the operational aspects, the root courses then etcetera So it's about taking a step and into to vetting when what we're talking about we're talking because otherwise, we're going to be keep moving us extremely motors. On this I think that may be why that side meeting and that that focus working group will be very important. How mean, okay... Yes, you for this work and the harmon the working the account It's very useful and I think you also useful to cards to speak cover both hardware and the software session. But one of my question would be it may not be that clear on the boundary between the hardware and software because sometimes we digital utilize a lot on the hardware and it's show on the software. For example, or two machine those kind of stuff. It can be wheeled as an infrastructure, but it can also be a kind of software tool. So. So I'm not sure if we are going to need the definition of concept of stops, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "let this is just to use for reference may not be the the final to to the model. Okay. You Thank you Bob. Mari, believe you're next put this one. And I'm here with Dia cam as part of the authors for the data for cycle management and operations. We are currently on version nine And if you the next slide. We are currently on call for adoption. Basically on the background for the Ml, and I think coming from the previous session is important to highlight where it has been discussions around inventory and what we were considering as part of this concept asset initially, all the inventory discussions were more linked to hardware pieces. Right? Hardware and even so that is running on that network element. But what we can consider as part of this asset we can look into other naming as well or other way to define within the the Dm, but is the concept of that entity that might be running in the network in a form of hardware or a software, an application or even a service. I'm going when we are start looking into d is when we have been buying or choosing at a specific asset. And we place it into the network. We start using it we need to entitled. We have been addressing this into our group to the rename their license to entitlement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "and we enable certain features. That's configuration that we start to use as well. And here where the the cycle management starts. Right? We have been considered as well in management in there. We might be renamed it as there is another draft coming on the the manner with a different concept. But this is where basically the work of Dm days once we have been defining this layer inventory, how we use that inventory. Right? And in a way that it is configured on that concept of capabilities for features and how it is used. Next slide, please. Basically, the changes from previous version, it was a good nice say idea of hundred fifteen where we receive a lot of feedback and we address things that we're discussing there. We have been licenses to entitlement that we believe is a more generic term and we have been also reducing the L assets module, removing what we understand at might be considered as part of an discussion we have been extending the capability of assets just to do a reference to an inventory that we might be referring to and with the capability to extend Right? If we need to consider any other attributes that might not be as part of that inventory. But this is has been addressed with an example on the appendix in the Dm draft. Next slide. Examples to be done this is based on the different feedback that we have been receiving since the call for adoption was done we will be including examples with visualization of the use cases there are some confusion on terminology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "you made a a couple of comments on the open source type of license, we will be addressing that. We will review again any based on side meetings and you reference to that we might still remain on the draft, we will be able we will try to the couple that, making sure that we can continue with D. And there is this probably on the incident march class that we might need to to include as well. As in for us it's, you know, an sure that might happen into a certain feature that is running in the network and we need to raise that as as an incident. Right? As a ticket. To the technical services in in this case. And we will also work on the structure. We understand we have not been doing that much work within the structure until know the modules are a bit more in the discussions. Next slide last but not least considerations for the group and where we are asking for your feedback and collaboration as well. We want to... That the entitlement and is a good name. For what we were considering before as license. The main model and we believe there is a value to keep them together for us is this asset and entitlement feature and usage, there are other modules that initially were considered future extension, we were including it in the L classes, but we can still separated from the pure initial document and that could be the part of the you see the management that we are referring to organization and and users. With that, open for questions. Maybe time for one. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "So, oh, is on. This is still in call for adoption, I think it expires next week after we're back from Yokohama, please do read it and provide feedback on list. With respect to this. And as well, anyone is interested in the inventory work, that is as Rob pointed out, there's a list on that real quick diego. Again. Just I on this regarding the the adoption let me interesting one thing, we believe that this independently of the we're trying to couple this from in inventory discussion because we believe that cycle management However, we represent the substrate is important. We we have made any fourteen in is actually making this separation. So I'm I'm what for sure, I believe that this is a strong interest for the for the operations in general in the of the come of the inventory and we're trying to to to make this clear separation. Yes I wanted to remark this. Because it's something that and I I I want just dx exercise that they was talking about stepping back and looking at the different items that we were dealing with we want to deal with is something that we are trying to do and what the mari has summarized there. And yes, as we we talked in one fifteen about extracting out that inventory and you've as I said, when I as a contributor, I thought it was pleased that you did the work. So, yes, please do read working group, please do read and provide all feedback on list. Thank you. Thank you. Man. My phone went sleep. I think it's Alex. Yes. Screen. Network metrics."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "Yes and also I'm At time I'm presenting on green networking metrics. On One office. Click Next, please? So essentially, so the question for the draft is y green network metrics so just as a brief recap busy reducing carbon foot to net zero is one of the grand challenges of our days. Charge also extends network technology. And there's actually growing interest in this topic also here in. So that has been recently the Workshop on environmental impact of internet application assistance which took just place in December. And there are various drafts also that are starting to appear here. And for any of those activities, arguably visibility and instrumentation into yeah into. But into energy usage and forth is an important building block for which to start because how else can you assess how you are doing? And how would you enable other solutions that want to optimize and minimize those types of aspects. And this type is well sorry having some consolidation starts with having the right metrics and things that need to be instrument. And this is the purpose of this graph. We presented this slot actually, briefly early an Ip one fourteen, And but I think busy it has evolved and matured since then and we would like to but also basically to see if it can have a home here and Next please? So just as a a brief recap of what's in the draft? So basically defines set of metrics in a space divided into four different aspects, the first and most obvious crops concerns the equipment of the device. So this basically is about attributing the footprint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "filed footprint to the roots, basically which is, of course, the device that need to be powered. Focus of those metrics in this area on energy consumption and energy utilization efficiency see. There are of course, other considerations beyond just how much power is consumed also for instance considerations for how to take energy sources into account, how you would adjust point the energy mix with which the metric is being powered to also relate how does power usage and carbon footprint how long they related support so there? Of those considerations also described. Likewise are special considerations for in cases of virtualization, so points instance, in case where you have V f and of forth, how would you attribute common footprint occurred there. Is just all the hosting infrastructure although we need to have also notions parts of virtual energy. Virtual carbon virtual footprint. And so... So... Some of the examples or you will find basically other the different power consumption type of metrics on a p line card port, etcetera, stuff that we're going to data sheets as well as very sustainability ratings first next? So beyond the equipment are couple of other aspects one basically flows. This is the attempt to relate covered to to close and service instances. This will be a function of the volume and duration of of traffic on the flow, but there are fuel additional consideration that be taking the conference about replication, what's the amount of loss that you're occurring, etcetera? Application for this, I'll also also include current based accounting And so again, some of the examples would be that you would want to assess what is a covered footprint that is generated over the duration of a flow. positive Further concerns paths. So basically there's a also a whole"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:03",
    "text": "sub discipline if were emerging concerning energy carbon and pollution awareness networking, you'll find also many papers in that area. And this basically concerns about how you would assess the carbon intensity of paths and route alternatives and optimize your network follow things. And then finally, of course, there are metrics for the network large. That's... I mean, at the end of the day you want to optimize thing for the for the totality of things. Next, please. Addition do those basic metrics that are a number of additional considerations of which I already mentioned and the perfectly spends considerable rules playing on those. That's one thing concerns how you relate energy consumption and carbon footprint. So obviously, and consumption is one thing, but you can also account for energy sources, etcetera place converter form from etcetera. You also need to account for other stuff funds for your heating ventilation, air conditioning air conditioning, etcetera. For hidden devices, it may not be Yeah. The they may not be insulated but you need to take into account for the picture as well. And which to constitute the attacks if you will and so forth. Then then there are other aspects such as points in inherent carbon in the basics. That's incorporate into the device itself due to its manufacturing this it's sustainability and so forth. And basically all those are additional factors that be in addition to the pure metrics if you will themselves. Another ask the concerns certification, so how do you know that these things are corrected that the information is reliable. Actually clearly busy see if you yeah. If you give the wrong data, you can be optimize for the wrong thing. So also also security implication there and actually need for certification."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "And then finally, also how you deal with the precision and uncertainty. So far the pollution that we're networking of new preference is to specify ranges and bands if you were as opposed to opt absolute values. Next one? So this is the last slide. So basically, I thought there have been a number of changes as mentioned since this was last presented here, arthur who's joining if school, the plan next in the next revision is we wanted to tighten up the distinction between primary metrics and derived metrics based on this which are basically take into account well which are based on primary function but I'm taking certain last other factors into account are discounted support, so we want to basically have keep those really actually better separate. And Yeah. Made few additional. And it's something which will not be in this draft is concerns for definition of gang models or Ip fix information elements. Those things will be important. But we believe that those that's what constitute follow on, work, Yeah. And as mentioned we're looking for could here is a landing spot and yeah. That concludes my it's John. Yes. I I just have one main point about the security. In a previous life, I was working on the smart grid and things like that and one of the issues that we had. Was that issue if you if you publish the consumption, like in real time, you can use a lot of things about the usages. Mh. Probably, that's not really true for router, you know, like data center, but maybe policy see, you might have some things like did use without the person at home or not. So there might be some security considerations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "That is true that is that's absolutely correct. And does are this needs will be... I think this particular aspect is actually addressing the security considerations. But yeah, Clearly there are implications. So Rob walton Cisco. So the Held the workshop on energy usage see your networks and these are like... I'm I'm making green networking. I think that was really good and useful. I think it's it's good for I to be looking at this. One of the sort of observations when I was attending those was is hard to sort us pick out the things that would be great ideas and things that have like a practical benefit and are useful. And I see that is one sort of obvious thing that the given information of the device seems to be and these good sort first steps doing something rather than I like is that might have any real value. So So basically, I'm I'm supportive of doing this work somewhere. Might maybe Age b might the right spot or somewhere else or something I know. But in terms of doing this work. I think that this is is useful working. Thank you. On that note, hank, would you mind we have a few a minute poll is Do people want to work on this in ops Aw? Raise of hand. It's a pole. Raise your hand if you want to... If you think this is the right place to work on this work. I assume that's going to come up shortly. I'm hoping Yeah. go. Very There you go. Raise your hand. Raise your hand, if you think Ops Zed is the right place to work on this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "Of lot of participants this time around compared to previous one. Maybe it wasn't as clear last time. There seemed to be a of the people participating there seems to be a considerable amount who think this might be the right place. Is worth bringing up on the list. I myself have a number of questions I'm going to bring up in the like, who watches the watchers and how expensive is this to watch. But Thank you. Thanks. Just just one for the question. So just to clarify, I wasn't saying not do it here, it may be that that this turns it to a broader area and and some sense stuff work So that was what I was thinking. I certainly see it's fine for this to be the home for this draft or in the short term before that what's of might happen. Mari, if you could take your question to the list, we're gonna we're gonna move on to t last of the regular participants regular presenters. Oh, I have to dismiss it. Sorry. Yeah. Shoot. How was that the size that we're seeing here as No. No. Come on. It can't be maybe next slide. Oh, okay Next. Okay. Crazy. Alright. So Thanks so this is not about new technical work, but this is about the document that we authors tentatively called her"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "and energy and overview. And we first presented an It f one one four with a target for individual submission, but then we all so got feedback that there could well be interest to bring this to opt A g and this is a working group item. And this was also presented at the Ib workshop about sustainability, and I think so well for for others to read their as background for new work that they wanna do and that's pretty much also the goal. By the way, it's if you're interested to learn more about the Ib workshop go to Ia open, on Thursday, I think it is, and Y is going to present the summary we report about the workshop that happened in last November december right think was, Right. So this this document we want to provide background references for the different items that the we think the eye has done over its time to help anybody who wants to learn, but also to provide background and references for the ones who want to do a new work like the metric stuff that Alex was presenting and other work so that there is foundation on that And while writing that up, we've we figured that there's really a large set of areas from very high level to really very detailed, you know, even drafts that were in adopted at the end. Of the document Next slide. So when you started to think about what has the Done for energy, it's kind of nothing that you would find immediately from the old world explicitly with the label energy. It's more like that a lot of the work the Has done, had an impact on energy consumption of a lot of workflow Right? And that's the high level stuff that we started with. And so the more then you you recognize the scheme by which to look at It of work, the more it becomes clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "how to vet its impact on energy and sustainability. So now there are a lot more slides here and obviously too much for five minutes. So most of it's for reference, but let's at least check the next slide here. So yeah. So the the the very high level I think is that the Internet at at large has really cost and started the biggest wave of digitization of workflows that previously, you know, were all done without you know, digital mechanisms. A lot of it involving transportation, which is as we all know very energy heavy So everything everything's starting from email and going through a lot of other applications. On on to that. But then also the Internet as emerging network of a lot of different network technologies has achieved a lot of energy consumption even the digital space just through the benefits of scale in its architecture that was always, you know, based on being very efficient Next slide. Right. And so this this is where it goes down into more and more of the details So I think the tele collaboration starting with a very simple things like email up to maybe in the next few years happening with holographic representation of us are virtually sitting here. Right? So I think we all know that large range of things that happened over the time to to enable this collaboration. Obviously. We had more or less good examples and still work on how to best do that ourselves with the hybrid. So I think that's an next another big example where we set the standards where we define the networks. Next slide, Yeah. So there... Obviously, a lot of, you know, a working group in low power loss network networks. So that's hopefully well captured and and summarized next slide and then very specific technologies that we also felt to be worthwhile mentioning as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "something that has a big impact on energy and then all of course, the use of Internet Technologies within power networks themselves central phase networks And for example, the Smart Grid next slide, So that fifty seconds from you with the Next slide. So Oh oh, he's doing the next time. Okay. Right. So Yeah. Let's cut to the Chase. So basically, let us know what you feel about interest in this work being done through the opposite a g working group whether it's be supportive of it and obviously always looking for is to finish that document Either way, however, it's going to proceed Thank you very much. Thank you, Thomas. Mari reminded us that there is a side meeting on Thursday around energy. Around environmental impact, net zero, read out of the workshops it happened in December. So if you're interested in that, there is that on Thursday. And I think we will be having some discussions around green and energy impact and least initially on ops. Michael Richardson pointed out that we may be a little bit over tax in terms of the amount of work happening in Ops a right now, but solving real problems is always of interest. So thank you. Apologies to Xi, Luis and Chang, we will not get to your session. However, I will encourage the working group to read up on the policy based Ac, the gang data model and network diagnosis, for Oem tests and the new incident management drafts that have recently come out provide that feedback on list And in one seventeen, we might have time for more sessions. With that that concludes ops Aw g. I would like to hand it over to Rob Will and our virtual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "c ad warren for the ops area portion of your program. I will be continuing to run the slides apparently. Stuff later. I think. I don't actually see been lost slide sir. So how well well, joe tries to just out slides and things. I just wanna to cover the ops area part of this. So unfortunately, warren can't make person he had coded Early this week, and so he's separating pleased to see that warren has been selected as opposite upside a for another two years. So that's great for who go on. Then we've got sort of one presentation lined up today, if we can get it sorted, hopefully. You're you're ready? So Is it Ben benoit? Is it Olga? What's coming out. we're getting that. I think Then we'll have a open my open mic session at the end in case any questions. Yes. That's fine. So while you're getting a slide maybe I could just start with an intro? Yep. So Hello, benoit and I want to present something that we've been doing about digital map. So basically, better the feed feedback operators"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "we've been looking at how different young models fits together. And we want to share the that we've been gaining in our team by doing this Poc. Give me a little bit more Hello. My name is Ben benoit I would like to present So actually, what you want to do is that we've been looking at top young modules and starting from the bottom to the top. So one of were by Matt about sap and circuit. They're going at a higher level. You know in the For to see all these modules about yank. Work together. And somehow, if you look, will see that you've got many young modules. Enough time. Hello. My name is Benoit So thanks, Joe. So modeling is map based on that Rf see and it's a base model for top. And we want to share experience. And I think it's this why is in the ops area I'm not obsolete sorry with g. So on the next slides. Yes. So we could be thinking that we've got many young modules already. Right, specifically about apology. And I'm missing a couple of them Right? The first one is the one title. A younger for apologies, but you got l two l three and T at C. So in the indian we could be thinking the work is done. Right? Now on the next slide, What we see on the next slide. As if look at the catalog, you will see many young modules that are augmenting this best model. Right. And with my technologies. So if you go to the next flight, we would see the list of all these Rf."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "And we see that we have like, l two. L, Dc fabric, network top top. Great. Now if you go to the next slide, again in the catalog you will see that if we look at the latest approve which are rather are being worked on the this top model. We've got money. And you could see out all the different technologies there. Right. Service ot. Service oem. Network slicing at Etcetera. And I highlighted one, which is even the B of mounting this yang module with some geolocation information, which is again produce Right? So next slide, So this talk do those young what you work together, which is the kind of recurring question we've been having in the. So we don't want to borrow the ocean and look at all device, mod let's look at all the ones that are top related. And Rob you mentioned before the package right, If we conclude that some of these work together, they could be advertisers of packet Now the the question you asked is can those young modules be useful to create map? I to show some with the top in as well. So the Id idea is simply to share experience to share the open issues to show the guidelines that three man have for the people of mounting the young modules And in the question, what do we actually require for? On the next slide? So I want to do all the definition things they are in, but if you think high level digital twin it's a vision, but also a marketing term, it's a replica network that you could play with with what if scenarios. Offline. Right? To do that, you need a basic model."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "And the virtual instance of a top information. In the network. And to do that you model. So we focus on the modeling part of this digital month. Okay. On the next slide? Map provides a multi layer approach or physical l two l service attachment circuit. It's a multi. And this takes into account the core top entities. The rolling network, the core properties relationship. And that's the one that correlates all of the twin data through to entities in different layers of the network. Right? On the next slide, This is what we know team with our being there. Leading his effort. So basically, she's been looking at two different laps. At two different vendors. And trying to see how the first basic models fits together. Based on the entities, the components that are the best model. So we've got the Network, the note T emission point and the links starting from the devices. The links l two then going into the Ig F Isi sis, going even in the l three Vpn. So that's what we've been doing. Now on the next slide. What do I forget? Yeah. We look at terminal. Mp Lg and E and S sr six. And we're looking how they fit together. And we've been presenting this to some operators to see if this is useful to them. And specific operators who've been playing in the same area and we compare notes. So on the next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:06",
    "text": "Based on the discussion, we actually ask our of what do we need for this map? And A couple requirements is we need the basic model waste network no interface layers. They said yes. And on the right hand side, I've say, yes, if we take it eighty three forty five as reference it works. The layer approach, they said yes. Out to the customer because a customer intent and the service, Right? Because in the end is what you want to have. Open programmable said, yes, obviously. Standards, yes, obviously. And by the way, from programmable, I mean that in the future, we want have the ability to write into this map let's say for the what if scenarios in the twin. Right. Must be cross domain yes. Then There are some more requirements and some of them are not completely fulfilled. The semantic for layer network apologies. Sometimes it's not very clear. Right. Relationship it's not always clear and partial. And sometimes you we might want to have relationship between different object types. Right? It must be with metadata data. Like, okay, let's assume I want have more information my map and exactly like Diego mentioned for the inventory. Want to make sure that we know what is inventory and want to make sure is digital done map. But what is plug is, like, the inventory you was to discuss at the lange and enjoy your like, what is this name? Right? You know, you've got, like, the sis name, you've got ip the address you've got the Eu id inventory And basically, if you've got this map, we want to have a meta a point telling If you go that world of inventory, the eu id is blah. If you go in that world of management, address is blah. And maybe no Id hopefully"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "Id need to the same. Right, But we know it works. So I working meant by p with functional modules. And we realize that other thing is yang. So you know, there are different words like flows something like this. So if you want to plug those information in there, And I don't want to say this the code is map. It's part of the functional modules that would be using the map. Alright. Next slide. Doing good in time. If. Okay? Now what have we been observing specifically on this Rf three forty five? Well, a simple thing. We don't have bidirectional directional links in the map. Do we need that? Well the answer it depends for which use case. Right? Because you've got internal customers of this this map with different views of the map. Right? If you get kept capacity planning, Do we need that? Yes. Or no. If we look at up to the service level, Yes. Or no. Multi point, we just have point two point right now. Again, if we look higher in the service, you need definition of hub and spoke. Right, or full mesh. So we need to have more semantic. Information. I could go more details, right, but we going to write a draft about that. But relationship properties. The notion of layers supplier, the notion of assumption that redo do whenever we have a map. Telling, we assume there was connectivity well, maybe no because maybe there is a policy there is access list that's going prevent for certain prefix to have access. So again, what do we want from the map for which use case the people doing capacity planning with different requirement people telling our want connectivity. So some Okay. Let me let me stop here. I want to say well. So we start to arrive with some guidelines on how to recommend and how to make it useful. Next slide?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:05",
    "text": "High level observation, again, some more open issues some more guidelines. You know, just to mention one of them, I don't want to go into all details here, but Bg could be used for under and overlay. Right? You have to to to see how we fix that. It needs to connect to also different points. So this notion of, you know, What is l two? It seems like your very is simple question, but we've been discussing what we want to have into the L view. So all of these means that we are coming up with poc with some guidelines with requirements on map And on the next slide, we should be lost. So we're your Poc We will keep evaluating the different technologies that we add to the the front to to do the map itself. What we want to connect in the end is up to what Matt was mentioning, right, The sap key for. Because we want to go into the service on top of that the attachment circuits. So the end, we want to have I don't just say everything. But you want to be able to extend this to be useful. And how to fulfill the requirements because we could be boarding the the ocean that have everything in there. Including the entire inventory. It's not the point. So we're focusing simply on call method that you could. So we we plan to to request. I mean, to to have people working in this area discussing with us discussing together. So engaging in parties, we might have side meetings in the future and what we want to do is report this to the. In the future. And I'll finish here. Questions So you have ton of questions is any?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "Hi this is think as a contributor so to speak some eight or ten years ago, we were building digital, and we didn't know that there were the and the web maps and there were and they were billions of data points in there and we did realize that to spoke then his a standby by for direct things that one and your primary and all these semantics and relationships nest. So layer two appears in layer three which can again appear you can nest and so nested interfaces, all these relationships semantic happen to find some at some point already, and and they would... Yeah. Have to be une somehow. And and put together for your proposals here. I think that's a nice thing to do. But there's a lot of things out there that's conflict not you should not conflict this. And... Yeah. And have to document, what's already there. Good points. But otherwise, I think this is interesting some so thank for bringing here. I think it's good to present this and I'm just to show how the how these technologies have been used and how what the problems are with them and how nice solved. So I think that's great. So yes. Thank you. So I think that leaves a sort of a five minute slot for Open Mic, again, sorry the one can't be here to take the questions because lord normally like to feel all questions to him. So if there are any questions to me to me or questions to warrant the language to proxy through to him. Virtual. Is virtually. Could just respond. Yeah. I think there's is anyone in the mic. Doesn't see anyone standing up? And otherwise, if you want to try and just some time then then drops us an email. I'll find on the corridors I'm sure be have to chat. But if not, Give once. Going twice. Were done. So thank you all for attending today."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:12",
    "text": "Thank you for insurance. Sorry. I'm I"
  }
]
