[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "can all of you hear me yes we can it just takes a long time to unmute hi Daniel hi everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:50",
    "text": "now can you hear me yes yes okay okay right okay so so it was only me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "being muted I guess so um so okay so I restart so we have the not well and we do have the agenda bashing um I'm wondering if anyone is willing to take notes or and um why Logan um handled the brush of volunteers um I'm also asking if anyone has um anything he wants to mention on the agenda um I think I see and Drake so and Drake is probably um asking for uh something with a CMP um no was it the CMP well the CMP draft I I think um in eight foreign just be very brief on the notes I mean we don't need to have everything um just the main point maybe so um let's start so CMP the CMP draft um um I I think yeah we were expecting a response from to the security directorate from muhit and I think indeed it so now it's really in the hand of Paul um this is my my I mean Paul has everything to to do a ITF last call um I'm wondering if um there are any actions that uh that uh the working group is expected to do all the chairs um and Drake do you have any expectation from us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "no no special expectations so just wanted to give a quick background um I think Mohit responded to Paul's comments and uh um yeah said he will submit an update of the draft I think Paul is waiting for that that update if if I got it correct [Music] um on the other hand why am I interested in getting this draft finalized um it is a normative reference in two of my documents um which are in the RFC editors queue and as this is the last dependency that is open um of course I'm interested in um yeah getting the document approved and I feel like it is it is ready and it is ready for more than half a year or already so yeah I would appreciate things moving forward so as you mentioned I saw an email from ruite on the mailing list but um I think he was responding to Valerie's comment but I don't see the new version on the data tracker so I will try to follow up with that I don't think he submitted a new version so probably address that um but yeah I will try to to send an email to to respond to mui to say um uh probably is waiting a response from Valerie to publish it but I I'm going to to say we would like a a new version to be published I take that on my um on my site um any any other comments no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "so maybe let's move to the pub sub profile can you hear me I seek them yeah we can hear you hi uh unfortunately I haven't progressed it beyond the previous meeting but I received an email from Marco that there will be some changes to co-op pops up in core um yeah so it's the same as I last reported Okay so what matters to me is that if is there anything that that blocks you or anything I can do for you not really just that I didn't find the time okay that I can't do anything nobody but I will get to it as promised yeah yeah no problem as we speak actually uh working on the core Pub sub document and progressing it uh I conference again that I can help especially on the security side so if you want to have a chat about that one of this week's uh let's do that but I am not directly um on the core Pub sub document thank you yes uh I have both your emails so um I'll take a look um where the updates are planned and then raise any comments concerns or questions I have so just a clarification are you are we waiting for something in um core or um no this is just it was raised before in last meeting that there whether that has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "stabilized I wish whether we should keep an eye on it and okay that's what I'm going to do okay right okay great um what timeline do we expect is that next month or in the next two months um it's it I mean um um I'm hoping to get an idea I'm hoping next month okay okay sounds good because most of my Brokers are going to be resolved within one or two weeks so oh okay okay so perfect and um as soon as you need the help just uh contact us s meaning anyone that can help will do thank you okay right so um now I think um we are leaving the floor to Marco sure on revoke token notification well I started working uh on it for the next revision you can already see some relatively small uh updates on the GitHub but big things uh are still to come I confirm I expect a version for the cutoff uh hopefully to be ready for a working group last call after that so around itf116. okay so that's perfect just work in progress okay perfect uh on Oscar Jim admin uh I have an actual presentation okay so do you do you want to take the yes I just requested the uh okay the slide sharing I think you have to um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "you need to relinquish the screen sharing first I think okay but otherwise my request kind of right so let me try yeah I don't see it no you should but I don't see your slide either well they should be available on meteco but uh right now I've just asked permission to share you don't even see that request no I don't see that maybe that um Logan do you see that well we have a fallback otherwise I can share my screen I'm not saying your presentation sorry so when you look at Marco's label in the queue there is something that looks like an A4 page with a hand on it you have to click that okay okay right yeah so Grant preload slides right and here I see it and here we go thank you yeah thank you I was looking at the chats okay uh so this is an update uh on the GM admin document and uh to recap this document considers the the group manager supported of the group of score protocol and defines a restful interface at the group manager for administrators so that they can create or configure uh Delete the the Oscar groups run by that group manager and right now and for a while actually the document can be used considering a link format and playing c-bar or otherwise uh Coral and the organization of the interface and the management resources that the group manager is pretty simple uh there's a single instance of a group collection resource and uh for each"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "existing old school groups at the group manager there is one uh child resource a group configuration resource uh including as its representation a description of how the group works and is configured um so it's pretty clear that the the administrator responsible for the group management uh acts as Ace client here the group manager is the resource server and of course we have an authorization server responsible mostly for issuing access token yeah this View at the glance should further clarify uh the administrator can specifically interact with the group collection resource in the first place to to retrieve the list of existing uh Oscar groups both online or to create a new one with a post and when that happens that results in creating a new child resource uh for the corresponding group configuration uh and after that that group configuration resource can be accessed uh in order to retrieve the configuration of the group all together or selectively uh to update the configuration all together or or selectively or to delete the group um all together right uh the last version was presented almost one year ago uh in Vienna where a lot of feedback and good comments came up and I think what we have now actually addresses um all those comments that we discussed um in Vienna but we basically have uh two more versions uh since then uh one for the July cutoff and one for the November cutoff so I'll just go through the major changes that um happened since March last year foreign so the the update from versions five to version six and especially what in this slide um has been the major um update uh we have been used aif uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "for a while also in this document to model the permissions intended for um administrators uh but before Vienna last year we used to have um a separate dedicated AF data model defined and used um in this document and especially based on input and discussions we had we Christian we realized that it is actually sufficient to have one single AF data model uh which is already defined in the other document um Oscar which instead focuses on on the group members so starting from from that data model defined in kicker Commodore in the interest of group members uh that as a model is now just inherited and extended in this document also to express um as as we mean here uh permissions for um administrators so overall we still have um a scope encoding uh information with aaf in terms of scope entries as a pair of identifier and permission set now the permission set hasn't changed it's really about using uh Flags to indicate what an administrator can do on a certain group or set of groups and also the the specific operations have not changed but we have changed the to ID identifier it used to be a Simple Text string indicating a group name pattern now following again suggestions especially from Christian now the tid can be three different things um if it's a simple text string it indicates exactly one group name as a literal um if it's the simple value true it's a wild card so whatever name Works uh but since we still want to enable group name patterns as well you can do that by tagging any symbol item that we expect to tag specifically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "text string practically and with the tag that would indicate the semantics um of that pattern for example you can go for the already existing tag indicating that you are expressing a pattern using a regular expression uh so to recover now we we have a single AF data model uh aligned with the one defined in keywords Com or score uh that you can also use to specify uh permissions for administrators and there's also a nice side thing uh for every permission expressed for administrators the least significant bit into perm is always one uh while for uh scope entries related for group members again in the same data model uh the least significant bit in the perm is always zero so you can quickly distinguish uh the two different types of scope entries by means of that bit which means that you can issue a single access token uh granting to the same Ace client of course permissions to act under the same group manager as administrators for some group uh and as group member for uh for others which is pretty efficient okay that said we had to revise a bit some details in the interaction between the parties mostly considered what I issued in the previous slide and we also considered all the uh operations uh exported by the group manager for administrator and we categorized them as mandatory as optional to support and this is in the same exact spirit that we considered from comments from joran I think on previous reviews of the key groups come at your documents on providing this categorization that now um is happening here too uh we added one more parameter that the administrator can specify when creating a new group as a requesting the group manager provided"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "that the group manager supports this all together um to perform a recycling of group identifiers Integrated Health School Group which is an optional feature defining Groupon score and finally we used to have a quite a long amount of text in the document body describing how the authorization server was supposed to check the token request from the ace client against related access policies in case a group name pattern was involved we decided to move that text to an appendix as just an example of how that comparison process can work a while like in the Ace framework RFC uh the the process about that in the document but it's very limited short and kept at a high level okay and that was around July after that one more revision happened and there the major update was about um aligning the the use of um an optional feature already defined in the key group com uh document but in principle available for any application or profile of Ace um it is now possible to optionally tag the scope claim in an access token to to give up front and explicit indication to the resource server about the semantics considered in that token and we used to do that in in a certain way again out of suggestions from from Christian uh that changed and just focusing on the new way now you can simply tag um the the sieber by string transport in the scope uh with the tag indicating the semantics um used for that scope so this may have the downside of impressible opening for many"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "registration of civil attacks but uh there should be plenty of available uh space for that and on top of that thanks to the work done um in the file magic RFC mentioned here often you may not even need to do the registration explicitly and including in this case we are just going to build on on a silver tag that is going to be automatically registered out of the registration of a co-op content format related to uh the defined AF data model this is anyway an optional feature and the point of this update was just align the possible use that this draft makes of it to the general definition from AC group com uh we also Define one more um error code to be included in in a response payload from the group manager and like we did for other code we gave guidelines for the administrators on how to react in case that error comes back and um yeah again aligned with what happened in the previous revision for operations uh we considered uh parameters uh in this iteration classifying those as mandatory or optional to support again following feedback from joran and then of course the editorial and Diana related fixes that that can never miss that should be also stable now so that's where we are and this is the next steps I can imagine uh and a roadmap if you want to uh so thinking also in terms of priority uh we have in mind to add some more um text giving guidelines on um how multiple administrators for a same Oscar group can coexist which is functionally possible but I think it's worth giving some more guidelines for example about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "informing uh primary administrator about what other second class administrators might have done um on a certain lawsuit group and we need to extend the security consideration that right now are really limited to one paragraph um only um if we move forward it's about uh points related to to Coral so as I mentioned this can work either with a link format and playing C board or with coral um instead with reference to the coral part uh I found a few things that required to be clarified a bit better also in the examples are a bit too tears and I'd really like now to convert all the examples we give for Coral to use not the obsolete textual notation like they do right now but rather the expected notation um with the additional use of a packed Seaboard that should really be the norm now um I think uh so as I mentioned I I plan I hope for for the cutoff to be able to address uh points one and two fully and points three and four uh as much as I can but then there is point uh five that I wanted to start to um race today and I hope we can reach consensus about that um at the next ITF meeting um it's something I I mentioned in the past to Daniel already uh that seemed to sympathize with the proposal here but uh for everyone to be um aware of um I think we are reaching a point where the the work on on Coral as a document in the co-working group can can delay the progress of this document because more time is required uh by the coral document to be completed but still this document in Ace is self-standing if focused on link format and sibo only so my proposal would be to split this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "document into two uh where document one would be what we have today after removing uh all the parts related to Coral and that's the document that we can finalize uh during this year and ship uh document 2 instead would be a new awfully working group document from the start as the result of the split um including the pulse related to Coral and of course building a sort of a textual framework around it so that it's a readable document uh that in due time would probably um update uh this document as an RFC uh we can put document to um in a freezer and resurrect it when Coral is done or cause to be done so we don't need to take a decision now I believe but I just wanted to start raising this with the hope that we can take a decision um in the March meeting but of course any feedback anytime uh is welcome and this is my last slide I think thank you I think it's um um we should take a decision as early as possible so um I'm wondering if I I thought we we already took a decision so um no I I talked about this with you and a few other people informally but it's the first time we really raise it okay at the working group meeting so um I suspect we will have to to have an email on that especially the the thing I I was a little bit worried is that if in two years you come with a document um we need to be able to to show some evidence that we or we agreed that um a coral specific document needs to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "adopted so um is there anyone thinking that we should do otherwise um so the current um question is with that document does that does it sound uh reasonable to everyone that we do not provide examples in Coral but we stay with what we have and then when Coral is stabilized we do update uh we do a maybe a beats document or something um with a coral or um should we wait for uh coral and we don't have um any idea on when curl is going to be finalized so any anyone has any strong feelings are you around here I think this is a this is straightforward and I I don't have any any objection here so so please split out the coral related parts for now and I don't have a strong opinion how how we handled that when it uh when Coral is available so but I think the important thing is that we progress this this trust yeah Daniel I I was explicitly proposing um a document too to be submitted and put in the freezer just to have it as a placeholder to not forget about this and bring it up again and progress it in due time yeah okay so I I think I am going to to send an email saying this is a um we decided to split that document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "and and can you send the document for that uh as early as possible so we can I mean maybe today uh so that we can combine um the call for adoption with that one or uh the the split is not at all straightforward that's why I also had this time again in mind um intentionally the coral parts now are really Blended uh okay that's why I I wanted to address points 3M for um anyway it will benefit for the future but then it will take some effort to do a split in a clean way so that's why I was okay right after itf-116 so just send me the name of the document that is it's gonna be put in the freezer okay yeah yeah about the detail you mentioned before for what is worth I think they would appropriately be an update uh not really a base just a personal take okay yeah yeah yeah no I I mean um that's um but just so so so we have a something that we can reference in the in a later discussion probably probably when it's going to be called for adoption or revived you know you never know on this other detail you also mentioned before of course it's up to you and log on to decide if we have to go through a separate adoption call uh what I saw as presidents in other working groups is that if it's about splitting some especially very Advanced working group document um the resulting new document is submitted from the start as a working group document so it doesn't necessarily require an adoption call if you think it's fine yeah I I mean for more transparency I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "think I mean of course anyone opposing to that needs to have strong arguments but uh yeah it's more to to give a period for anyone saying its opinion um so um I don't want that to I I I I I don't see that as a huge constraint um um and I think we I I I I I think two weeks is fine and um everyone is going to be aware of of what we're doing it's more to have that period yeah in terms of timeline again I prefer to prioritize the the first points here and I can imagine to put some effort to do a clean split after 116. yeah yeah yeah sure sure no problem but that's the plan yeah yeah [Laughter] no no no but that's uh that's fine I mean um okay any question any comments I'm I'm hearing nuns so um maybe we can move to um key group come Oscar now Israel yeah I don't have uh news from last time but I'll leave it to record thanks yes so hello yeah so I'm there yes I'm the Shepherd police document and well let me ask give a short update so I haven't submitted the shepherd write-up that's in progress and along with that a review of the document and essentially my plan is to finalize that during this week so I can send it out and upload the write-up well latest Monday um next week so in one week's time okay so that's good um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "I mean I mean Paul was um suggesting to have some uh another quote for adoption for the two documents um I I think I mean um um I had the impression that uh um very few people were um thinking it it was a good idea but I don't know um if Paul has changed his mind so um uh we'll we will have to check that but um um has anyone anything to say regarding that that we should um carry to Paul or um is anyone thinking it's a good idea or it is something we should do yeah uh I I don't remember Paul asking for that in the mail exchange you started with him Daniel you mentioned uh the need or not need for a working group plus call actually and yeah that came as a surprise to me I I don't know if that's needed I don't think so yeah same for me so okay so um well I mean what I have in mind is that um once we ship that to Paul um he's going to maybe maybe trigger a last call for both of the documents and then um those documents uh I do not need any actions within the working group that's my um that's how I think but we'll see how it goes so yeah Ricard as soon as we get it um we probably uh have more information on what's uh poorly thinking yep and uh that would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "good um so so as soon as we have uh we can ship that to Paul and get um get his reactions yep sounds good sounds good from my side as soon as I get the the review from record I can yeah take it into account for an extra Vision uh that is already incorporating in the editor scorpion GitHub sounds more fixes so I I suppose we ship the the upcoming next revision yeah okay yeah yeah sure um but uh Rico did you find anything that needs uh to be I mean strong things that need to be that makes the revision being a no I wouldn't say so okay not not really no so don't if I made it like that well nothing I don't have the well I found some I don't have the the I didn't prepare any like stuff for this meeting but I like if you ask anything maybe or no it's nothing that would like um mean a some kind of significant large amount of work for revision that I that I would see you know okay so that's great so uh Marco I think when um when we have this Shepherd um I mean uh it's try to address those as soon as possible so that we can ship that uh to Paul um um I'd like to have that by the end of the month uh so that I mean you don't get overload with the next ITF and that if there is anything that that can be discussed we can use um um I mean the the time before the ITF and then eventually have a meeting um a discussion during the ITF maybe so um so that's a that's how I see things sounds very good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "okay go ahead um next presentation garon sorry can you hear me now yeah so I I sent in the slides late so I don't think you have uploaded them okay now I see your uh Grand screen so I'm going to provide you the screen right so let me do that yeah we can see your screen can you see the slides yep yep okay so um this I I asked to to give some some input here uh ask for some input here because this there's been some commands and we have started to think about the next Updates this there is no change since uh since this was adopted this is still the zero zero profile of the ad hook postcode profile um so the recap here is that it's it defines uh this profile which is provisioning access rights and an Associated asymmetric key to a resource server and client and then it uses ad hoc and all score a security protocol and then there are a number of different options here which I'd like to get into in the following slide on that you can you can have a very simple flow and then you can have sort of a lot of optimized flows or or a few optimized flows and that's basically one of the comments another point which is also valid to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "make here is that you can you don't need to carry the credential all the time you can actually have it by reference so the the authentication credential used to authenticate the other party could be just as in ad hoc something just a reference to something you don't need to carry it both in the authentication flow and in the access token um so here is a um oops sorry just needed to get out of this apologies I a little bit confused here we are again so here is a simplified sketch of of the state diagram and so if you need as a client here you need new access right starting at the top then you would client would contact the as the authorization server with post slash token and get back some access related information from the As and this is a vague formulation because we are not we're meeting token provisioning in this figure here so the token can reach the the client and the RS in different ways and if if this is the first time so there is no Oscar called context valid or no ethoc session Valley then you would go straight ahead and run ad hoc which is the bottom box here in the middle and then you would derive the Oscar context and that's a I mean this procedure we could of course apply all the time but it's not very optimal because then you would need to run ad hoc more than necessary so for example if you have now an established ad hoc Oscar context with an Associated access token um and you want to update the access"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "right so you start again from the top here um and you get to know new access token or access related info and it's then there is a valid all score context well then you can basically go to the right there um to the uh the upper right blue box where you just post the that token using unprotected good old school and you're done or the case that Oscar context is not valid but the adult session is valid then you can run a procedure which is similar to to the core the old score profile where you include the token and a couple of nonsense and you use the other key update with those nonsense and derive yourself context so that's one that's so this I mean this in this the general question here is basically um or these options are it's fine to have this this set of options here or should we go for even simpler state diagram and this is again already simplified as it is so that's that's an open question for for the working group and we come back to some comments from Christian in the next slide that's the final uh comment here is that if if you need a new oscore security context now now on the left side then if you had Kudos implemented then you could just run that and that's completely independent of um of the the access token really so that's an alternative flow as well and if you don't have Kudos available then you would need to to either use Ado key update or rerun yeah any questions on this slide okay so then we had some comments from Christian along these lines um so for example um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "the when we do the token provisioning so that we have two options for this we have the post authorization info which is the client um in a separate flow client and rs or we can use the external authorization data of ad hoc which means it's in line with with analog this is similar to the dtls profile that there are two different flows for token provisioning um so I think that but if you look at the update of access rights then as we saw that you actually need to do the post authorization info then you are not running ad hoc again if you just updating the access right so I think that we do need to have the different options here um if it's if we have support in the RS for post slash authorization info well then we for updated rights well then we might as well use it for initial rights another comment on the same line is if we need a to have multiple ways of running adult and oscore so you know there is this independent flows where you first run ad hook then all score or there is this combined request where you include ad hoc message 3 and Osco request well adult message 3 within the Osco request and the question is can we use that all the time do we need to have these these double close these alternatives and my answer here is uh I haven't really confirmed this with everyone so but I think this is the answer is no here we could um oh it says exclude this option that's not very well formulated it we could just settle for the combined request for example to have that as the the only option and any comment on that any idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "so if in terms of examples there is in the at the end in the appendices of the draft there are examples of doing either the combined request or or doing the separate so those are spelled out in detail and the question is do we really need two votes um or can we say that can we recommend one or should we mandate one so I hear no input here so maybe there is no no major opinion uh Marco here I was raising my hand it probably depends on on the resource servers supporting the combined request in the first place so um if there is no support it's really way better to go for it and it should happen that way it could be a sort of a requirement for in order to support the adult profile you must import combined requests and that would be in line with the fact that we are now mandating support for adoki updates so yeah yes so either we raise expectations as a baseline or otherwise I think we need to be flexible and keep it as optional yep so that that's a good good summary and I wonder what we actually go for here what what is preferred here is it that we have the different options I I'm just I'm just afraid and I think that's sort of Christian's comments here that we we get too many options maybe it's better to require more I mean this is not requiring more in terms of um in terms of uh Power of the of the device it's not it's not requiring additional um computational power or processing power"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "or or battery power it's it's just requiring a specific implementation so maybe that is preferable okay so if there are any more comments that later after this meeting that's very welcome otherwise I think we will as authors will we will come with the proposal for the next meeting and the second third comment here and also along the same line was the negotiation of there are certain parameters being negotiated foreign and that's that's also flexible flexibility which we can have or we can take out in the in the in the interest of making the protocol simpler and I don't have a really strong opinion here I think I think we can exclude this negotiation and I haven't asked my co-author so what do you think Marco just looking for the onions button uh yeah and it's not fully a negotiation that information comes from the authorization server and is given to uh to the ace client based on a better early knowledge that the authorization server has of the resource server and then the client would just uh stick to that uh as learned from the authorization server while the resource server knows already so it's not really a negotiation in band between the client and resource server it's more uh some some hard-coded configuration on the RS side that the authorization server passes on to the client but you could still you could still omit that information sure and that's the case already then you default for the value defined in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "adult draft yeah so the question is if we should allow I mean this is also adding adding options and making this is just one one example here so I don't think it has a Major Impact but it's more like an attitude here should should how much flexibility should we include sure and the same applies to the master salt size of course yeah just so there are multiple parameters okay uh so we've raised these questions now and in the absence of other input we will we will try to make a voice proposal here going forward then we have some some new features for which is um relevant not only for the adult profile but it's some of them are included in the other profile and I'd like to mention them and and ask for uh what people think if we should just keep them in the adult profile or make them generally available so one is the alternative flow for Access token provisioning so instead of the client uploading the access token there has been a request to allow the authorization server to upload it to the to the resource server so this is the post slash authorization info and that's an unprotected request so it really doesn't matter from the RS point of view where it comes from because it will anyway need to handle the denial of service aspects and verify the access token so this is described in the other profile but maybe generalized to the ace frame and that's something that we might want to split out of the document if if that's we I think that from the author's side we think this is a good idea"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "because it certainly makes sense uh in other profiles as well but we're happy to get input on that now or later any spontaneous input here no okay so there are two more we have still have the chance so there is also the use of certificates of s authentication credentials okay the focus when Ace started as a working group was on iot devices using symmetric keys and Republic keys but as we see there is also um for for various good reasons the use of certificates in uh in iot deployments and that is something that we include now in the adoc profile but it's not included in the details and TLS profiles so that's something we may want to generalize as well and then we have a third type of generalization or a general property which is a request from [Music] from a partner to use the to use an access code token for multiple devices so for multiple orises I should say so if you request an act you want to be able to check out an access token and use that in say you have a number of identical devices uh that you you want to access and you don't want to have an access token for each of those devices so for each of those rs's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and today we the setting is that you provide the public key of the that device in the RS CNF claim so that limits this the validity of this access token to a single resource server and that's that's a limitation so what we'd like to do is to introduce a new claim to allow multiple viruses and um that there are different variants of that either we we use we Define a new one say RSC and F2 and you claim which contains multiple public keys or we could have another setting where we Define a a trusted issuer of credentials so so we don't need to list all the devices that are trusted or that are are recipients we could list the ca if you like and then you verify that the device you're talking to is actually has a credential issue by by the ca or or some other assertion it doesn't have to be a certificate so that's that's uh an option which is not yet described anywhere it's applicable to all the profiles which are using asymmetric keys and one option is that we just included in the adult profile for the time being or that we make it separate um draft any opinions on that point so how does the client now it's talking to the right device well what is the right device so if you either you just provide the public keys"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "of the right devices okay so I mean so what I'm trying to say is that what is the operation you want to do let's say that you want to operate on all the smoke detectors in the house and you want to make a certain operation you want to have the ability to configure something in all smoke detectors then right device is a smoke detector of a certain well the the if the first smoke detector has gone Rogue and is able to to catch the traffic to all the other smoke detectors then the smoke detector can pretend to be the other smoke detectors and you won't succeed in talking to all of the smoke detectors yes that that's I mean yes that's a consideration and they I mean you you would know since this is asymmetric so you would do you would still do individual authentication of each uh smoke detector so so you would be able to see if I'm talking to single or if I'm talking to multiple and you would be able to identify those and to make a record out these are the updated smoke detectors so you would still I mean you would still be able to authenticate and pin and you would there will still be a client would know what who is at the other end and what operations have I performed on the other end okay so that's just my point that this needs to be very clear how this is done in this case yes yes I mean the list of of public use is probably simpler than this sub bullet here where you where you just have a trusted issue that you should probably have more than that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "an attribute assertion rather than a um rather than a CA so we're adding adding indirection may make sense uh but uh yeah I think you do have to come up with a use case where this actually makes sense to to explain this but yeah the use case was exactly what I mentioned here that you have multiple devices identical devices and that you need to configure yeah but how is it better to talk to what you call a CA I would call it a key distribution center instead of the AES no this is not better but this is about the information that's provided from the as so the AES so there are there are three options here the a either the as is issuing one token per smoke detector right uh that's option one the second option is that it issues uh one single token and then the RS info the information about the RS contains a list of each and every public key of the RSS and then the third option there is a single access token and the single key is the key of the trusted issuers and then you don't need to to know each and every one you need to just trust that the issue has issued um certificates only to those smoke detectors or with some other provisioning some other attribute uh so you can be sure that this is a relevant smoke detector for me to configure okay so there are these yeah maybe I don't understand what what you mean when you say certificate I think we need to be more careful when we use this term so this would essentially be an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "authorization of the smoke detector to act as a smoke detector in your use case uh yes so let's say it's the manufacturer that has issued a credential uh so there's a public key certificate of which is signed by the manufacturer and that is that is the so the manufacture public ca key included in the so what what does this certificate say that that's really what we need to isolate here it well in that case it just says I'm I'm produced by yeah which maybe and that's probably not the right right requirement so that's why I was talking about attribute certificates yeah so I think that um yeah getting that right would be a useful thing yeah yeah thank you so yeah let me give you a better example it's basically let's say that the operator that you have uh he issued local certificates for for each device by a certain CA and then you might have also have when you do that you have some in that certificate there is some some property that makes you identify this class of devices then then you would have control over uh of which which are are allowed to to be updated but I think I think you have a good question there mccarstan this needs to be clarified indeed I think that the first two cases are probably straightforward the third one was a little bit short from the hip when I made the slides I need to think a little bit more or or we all but then come since you were bold enough to make a question Carson I asked a question to you again should we make this a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "part of the adult profile or should we make this a general draft I don't see what specific about at home here none of the three features here is specifically yeah okay to me this sounds like one or more additional documents that explain how they apply to a talk and the TLs profiles yeah for for all of them or for well it may not be possible to say in one sentence how they apply to all of them but for each of them yes yes of course okay there's also for Ace framework General aspect about how to encode uh rscnf2 that can be useful in future profiles that we can't even imagine now yeah and before you you touch certificates a lot about indicating the identity of a specific resource server but in if you want to use uh what we use today yes because it is I don't think you have a common quality parameter to indicate uh the identity of the other side so probably we would need to look into how to extend that too yeah that's a good point okay so there's definitely more work to do here let's let's see where we go then thank you all for the feedback uh Rika do you have a comment as well no just a brief thing that I think definitely could be interesting to explore all three of these and yeah probably as a new new document then right would this be one new document or would it be multiple new documents I bet this started as one new one otherwise it becomes a lot of the new documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "okay so this little bit like new new features for new new features for Ace right and subscribe yeah new feature phrase and then describe how it impacts the individual profiles hmm could be a start at least yep okay um yeah that's that's it from my side we need to resolve the comments that we we raised here we're going from and from Christian and we are strongly considering how to reduce the um the different Alternatives in in the addo Costco profile we'd like to have a new version ready before the Oklahoma meeting and more comments are of course welcome so I'm I'm done thank you okay so I think we've reached the end of the meeting um so I think the mitching is a drone and um see you next meeting thank you bye-bye goodbye"
  }
]
