[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "sounds good to me okay good apparently with the headset it didn't work so i have to apologize for background noise if any so we are now at the top of the hour so let's get started um welcome everyone to the fingertiping research group um this pre-idf 113 summary meeting so we are not planning to meet at the idea face-to-face meetings so instead we're having this meeting summer meeting before the actual uh ietf week so uh my name is arik keran and karsten bormann is also the co-chair of the group also in this meeting this is an irtf meeting so the usual note well applies if everything goes as planned you are being recorded please be nice to each other and the ipr guidelines apply for more details you can check out the following two slides in the share slide deck but i think most of you are already quite familiar with them a quick reminder about the goals of the irtf so here in irdf we focus on long-term research issues that relate to the internet so we do actually make research here instead of standards although we do work very closely together with the ietf where the actual standardization work happens here really the primary goal is to promote development of research collaboration teamwork exploring research issues related to internet protocols applications architectures and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "technology uh quick administrative issues um we have um notes uh at the url that you see on the slides today please go ahead and join the the ether pad well kodi md nowadays and we also still have a jabra channel that is connected to the um meet the code chat you can also use the medical application to join and finally if you're not at the mailing list already please do join it that's where you will get the announcements of the latest activities and a lot of the discussion is happening at the mailing list and as usual we do have github repositories for all our meetings you have the link to the repository of this meeting as the last bullet on the slide then to the agenda of the meeting today we are not right now in the introduction part of the meeting we'll give a quick update on the current states of the research group and then we'll also give reports from the wishy and other activities after that we'll go to the main part of the meeting um we have a a half an hour session around uh security considerations for constant restful environments seccore a new thing to research group activity we have had quite a bit of work on iot security before but it's going to be a more focused set of activities happening and uran salander will give you an overview of that then a particular item related to that work um your matter will be presenting amplification attacks on iot after that we'll have a as a research talk from savio on security extensions for using much to give fast response to new vulnerabilities on domestic id networks and then we have a couple of updates from a organizations that we have close collaboration with so michael mccool will talk about the double to receive web of things and michael koster will give an update on the one dm and iot schema then finally carson will give you a quick teaser on the sworn work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "and finally around 1700 see utc we should be able to wrap up and at the end of the meeting any questions or comments on the agenda okay then going for the update so um we have had um usually the wishy activity um by or or by one monthly meetings or monthly meetings depending on on that on the occasion where we look at these um interoperability aspects on on semantics and hyper media and we're planning to start a similar meeting series around our own security so as i mentioned before we don't have a thinking artsy meeting planned at the idea face-to-face instead we have this summary meeting before uh we have had a set of online meetings earlier with different sdos for example uh w3c with oma but also very much looking forward to have similar meetings with other alliances and in particular open source communities so if you're interested to have a such meetings together with us please go ahead and approach us chairs very happy to work together with you also we are thinking of having a work meeting so whereas this meeting is a summary meeting where you mostly hear about the updates of various activities we're planning to have a work meeting where we actually have more of these research focused discussions and um currently planning one around april may time frame one particular topic that came up recently this digital twins and how that would relate to use of iedf iot technologies so please stay tuned more information about that coming soon also we are always very keen on having a collocation with academic conferences we had one recently um online and doing for example another one online this year or maybe even face-to-face going forward that would be very much in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "our interest so if you're participating in one of the organization committees of such conferences please do approach us chairs and let's have a chat and also we've been having only physical meetings for quite some time for obvious reasons very much looking forward to have a face-to-face meeting also something very soon so perhaps one of the upcoming ietfs or perhaps a work meeting then quickly uh update of the current research group documents so restful design for iot document got a minor update just a few weeks ago uh mainly on puts method use of side effects and also addressing some of the chair review comments there's a plan to have a bit more substantial substantial prs um pull requests on github on some of the bigger issues from the chair share reviews going forward and then the idea is to move towards research group last call uh it's an iot got a bit more substantial update recently and now it's waiting for chair reviews and also reset scope last call coming hopefully very soon then we have had a quite a long standing process on the secure iot bootstrapping traffic is nowadays known as terminology and processes for initial initial security setup for iot devices uh we didn't have an update for this meeting but what a check with the authors and they said that work is still ongoing and we can hopefully get updates on that also soon we have a few other work items that are not currently resource group documents but we're what we're ramping up one is this iot information model standards prescription and there's a related work on semantic landscape that has been discussed earlier in wishy and there's probably going to be a new draft coming on that topic soon and also we have had this um idea of id uh work um on the route of trust security work um from from michael richardson and for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "that we actually got a review quite recently hasn't yet been posted on the mailing list but it seems to be raising interest uh from from different people so we look forward to also the progress that work and finally we have had in the wishy context quite a lot of discussions and there's an uh plan to make potentially research group documents on some of those what we call now wishing notes for example around terminology then a quick update on the wishy activity so a lot of the work related wishy has been recently happening in the asdf and one dm context so where in which if we look at this hyper media and semantic heating durability um a lot of a lot of those topics have been now discussed in those two fora we did have one meeting uh in november where we discussed web of things topics in particular however things think descriptions and things models relate to sdf how these technologies can be interworking together also we have been discussing um ipso model sdf dtdl interwork and make an implementation of that how we could bringing these multiple data model technologies together and demonstrating how they can be nicely working together currently in the easy work we do plan to continue probably around the sdf topics mainly but if you have any other topics you would like to bring around semantics and hybrid media please do approach us share so we're more than happy to take the discussion with you so that was the quick update um on the research group status any questions or comments from anyone okay hearing no questions um next it would be uran and sakura"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "hello and now your slide should be coming up can you see them i can see them and i can use them thank you carson okay so i'm joran i'm going to talk about this new topic series uh for thing to think rg which we called seccore which deals with security for co-op based applications or more generally constrained restful environments we try to find some good name here korsek was apparently taken and has multiple meanings sekor turned out to be an italian word or at least understood by italian as meaning dryness the property of being dry which seems like a good name for it for topic dealing with security so that's that's what we went for and this so there's been a series of planning meetings in tttrg and we've discussed a little bit of the content and the forms and this presentation is my take on on on the outcome i don't think we have converged exactly on on meeting schedules and topics but so so anyone who participated in the planning meetings are welcome to to raise their voice and and um comment and then as it's anyone else of course if they're having comments so this work actually started uh with a breakout meeting at the core working group itf 113 in november where we realized that we need to do more work on on security for co-op-based applications"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um and this slide is just showing that we do work already on on security for applications uh here are two examples and so we do work in the itf like the first example is a recent rfc looking at security enhancements for co-op one example is on the top right hand side the echo option which is used for anti-spoofing freshness there also other work in ace and lake and cozy and so on on security related to co-op applications but there is also work done outside itf which is used in sort of use results that are needed by by the idf and this the second example here which related to a problem that appeared in with co-op group communication so that's the example on the bottom right where we have a multicast co-op message or a co-op over ip multicast for example which is signed and where the response could either be a signed message or a emacked message and in particular in the case when there is unicast response uh it certainly makes sense to just have a mac uh targeting the the the sender the client in this case so in that case the question that appeared was can we use the same public key so that the client public key would be used by the server to verify the signature could we use the same public key for creating a shared secret with the client and derive a key used for the for the mac and is that secure basically that was the question and this was proven by eric to marker in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "this it's a reference here to to uh a proof so that's the type an example of a result um which where we needed some research to advance the the um the work in the itf in this case the the group security for co-op i should just add to just clarify this picture encryption is also included in in both ways so this is a simplified picture of what actually happens in the group communication so with this in mind we started to think about this we have we need to do more work on security for co-op-based applications and these this could example be topics that are not not in scope of a single working group uh so we or or an itf working group at all but we could see that there is plenty of space in the ttr rd charter to actually perform a security research group for for iot so um so the rationale here is that we we think there is a need for for a space where we can gather researchers and other people who are interested and to progress the research as one one one important item but also to explain the results for those interested but perhaps not experts in in the in that particular security area and these results can then be reported also at the summary meetings like like this meet so that's that's basically the setup for uh motivation for this work um the type of results that we expect is specific research papers or or preprints um it could be surveys so which they're already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "i mean this there is already an example of that the t2trg rfc on it security or it could be that we are discussing topic spanning multiple itf working groups which doesn't have an established home and there's an example next slide and as ari pointed out the the work in this should be related of course to somehow to idf work and here is uh i wanted to write candidate topics but that's not i i didn't want to do that because there are some of these drafts are adopted in other working groups and this is not intended to be a competing activity it's a supporting activity where we collaborate with with working groups and we try to solve problems that doesn't have any other um home basically where we can work on them two topics are highlighted i won't go through the list here we can come back to that if you're interested in any particular topic to our highlighted or boldface and those are topics which we think we could work on short term and one of the topics this was already prepared for today so we also in this group started to think about how to group topics in in short made the long term identifying what karsten is calling a pen holder maybe a good name secretary a person that actually takes doesn't have to be the one doing all the job but is preparing the topic and providing the starting points or at least some starting points for for discussion and um yeah so that's basically the ideas um i don't think we have a strong uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "view yet on how frequent these meetings should be bi-monthly was a proposal um i think it should be need to be driven by the people who by the interest basically who are interested in driving who are interested in finding solutions and formulating the problem statements that we will have as a starting point we have a first candidate topic coming up now on amplification attacks there is a second candidate on firmware update using multicast but other proposals are welcome any comments or views or ideas on what we could use these meeting series for yeah i didn't want to impinge on on euron's uh segment here but if we have time at the end um i will have a quick teaser for something that that's swan and maybe will be called tina um so that's something that's not directly sitting on top of of coab but it's also a security uh consideration in uh working with constrained devices so this we don't need to be um extremely sharp in in distinguishing things that don't fit and distinguishing things that fit so for instance what i'm going to present has has a lot of interactions with who are the actual players in a security protocol and how do you set up iot environments so i think it's more important that we get interesting conversations going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "between researchers on one and and um of course between themselves and uh also between protocol developers in in the iitf that want to make sure that the security concepts they come up with actually are supported well by research okay thanks carson and colin please go ahead uh hi can you hear me yes yes okay so this seems uh not unreasonable um and that there's clearly some some research things here i think my only caution would be uh looking at this topics for inspiration slide there's a lot of itf work so make sure you understand the boundary between what this group is doing uh and what the the itf is doing and try to stay on the research side thanks yeah that's it that's a good comment we actually had the discussion in the planning on the boundaries to to working groups uh to iot iotops and and cfrg and other things so yeah so there that's clearly something to to think about i mean in this case the the boldface highlighted here are are not um identified as as iot uh sorry as itf working group topics so so those are i think we are safe and and uh most of the other drafts are not adopted and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "which which means that they haven't found a home but that's that's what i just why i just won't call these topics for inspiration this is not not intended as a list where we are taking things with which you already have found between working yeah yeah and and all this seems entirely reasonable i think yeah and the things which you highlighted also seem reasonable but yeah as i say just just be aware of where that boundary lies thanks great thank you colin and and for everyone i mean if you want to uh join the comment queue there's the hand raised button uh in the top left corner of your of your mythico so you can use that to join the join the queue um meanwhile um euron what should be for everyone who is interested in enjoying this work what should be the right way of going um getting involved um should they wait for their first meeting or will that following meeting invitation or should they contact you directly or what do you recommend as the best way to get involved yeah that was actually my question going back is do we need to plan anything more should we just get started send out invitations and based on that see if more people show up and and have proposals we what we did was we had this this slide here where we said that if you have a topic that you [Music] think is relevant uh why don't you just prepare this type of think think through these starting points here and and come come back send an email to the ttr list and say i haven't i have a proposal that's i think that's i mean it's fine if anyone wants to contact me personally that's that's uh that's excellent and using the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "tttrd list is fine showing up at one of these meetings when we discuss these topics and say and mention new topics i think that would be a sort of recurring point on the agenda for these meetings what what's the next topic what do we have any new topics in mind and so on so yeah just interact in any way that you find find easy yeah so so i'm just in terms of what this thing could be organized as to trg um meetings with a focus on a particular topic right which happens to be the set course stuff right yep yep yeah okay [Music] just make sure they get announced in the usual way so they're in the data tracker and everything yeah that's that's that's that sounds reasonable okay then i'm done and the next next thing is the first tttrg topic so john will present the amplification attack thank you and me switch the slides your slide should show up any second now so uh so this is uh one of the topics we we suggest should be handled as sec core it was recently discussed in core and the suggestion was that this would fit better in thing to think already and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "after thinking about it i i i totally agree uh so this will this short presentation will just give an overview and the presentation is about amplification attacks but i think secor should probably work with the knight of service in in general uh so the night distributed denial of service is a huge and costly and growing problem in general um it can be it has been growing and you can do quite many different quite the denial of service tech you can do something smart based on the specific protocol such as the tcp student fluid attack so you try to drain the resources of the server you can compromise a large number of iot devices and then send just any garbage data to a victim and then you can do amplification attacks in application attacks you send a small message to a server but you spoof the ip address and then you get a request that generate a large response and the difference between what the attacker send and what reaches the target is the amplification factor uh this presentation and the draft i r we recently submitted exemplifies amplification attack with co-op doesn't mean that co-op is worse than other protocols but there has been some significant amplification attacks with co-op in recent years and uh it's ex they likely used co-op and nosek luckily the number of new sec serve co-op servers on the public internet has actually gone down quite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "drastically since i presented this in july 2021 uh and the big co-op attacks started in 2018 the biggest attack reached 320 gigabyte bit per second is a very large denial of service attacks at least it was in 2018 then 2019 the attacks totally stopped and quite little is known on what actually happened most of the reports are a bit misleading and strange but i think we can conclude that they did happen but not how it seems like co-op amplification attacks made a return in late 2020 and 2021 one and i'll say likely because it's highlighted in this raspberry report but the report used the same caller for coop m memcached looking at some other table in this report you can see that memcache is listed as one or two magnitudes lower than co-op so it was likely co-op but it's um you can have reasonable doubt uh at least they seem to have disappeared again in the for the rest of 2021. yeah i guess this is quite you can see with the other attacks here they come and then they disappear because the attack was patched by the device or they found something better so very high level different types of application attacks that you could do with co-op simple is that you said yes send a get you get a much and you spoof the the source address the server answer with something much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "much bigger and sent it to this spoofed address which is your target this can be seen much worse when combined with observe in observe you send also a single get but the server will send you n responses to the application a factor will be a times n it's very similar in multicast here each server will only send a single response but if you have m servers the amplification factor will be a times m and the server every single server typically doesn't even know what the fact factor m typically this get cannot be sent from the open internet to a local network but you might be able to compromise a node in the local network and then use multicast to get out of the network and if you combine and you can also use it to attack some service on the local network not on the public internet if you combine them multicast and observe you obviously get the application factor of a times m times n and whatever a a and m and n is here it's it's big reasonable amplification factor that quick recently so atf has tightened the requirements on amplification factors recently had a have which was published recently have it must not have an amplification factor over three which is a very hard requirement it is can seen as best practice for non-constrained devices"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "so denial of service is a major problem we don't want this of course and it's also a bit unacceptable that critical infrastructure has to take the cost for too much cost saving in in devices idf should make sure it's not worth if we don't take care of our denial of service hygiene probably nobody else will either and if the industry doesn't take care of this then probably regulators will step in if they do we want them to have an idea for irdf document to read um we don't want to think this is a perfect uh topic for tinting or the sec core we need to raise awareness increase understanding and hopefully find some suitable mitigation suitable for constrained devices i think this topic should handle the nano service in in general not only amplification attacks and that's it great thank you any questions comments please join the queue carson go ahead yeah i think the the interesting observation um in in this amplification environment is that um of course the amplification only becomes a threat if if somebody actually uses it and um the the interest in the community of attackers is highly variable there are fads people suddenly detect the ability to use ntp and then they use ndp for a while and then they start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "using dns because people are becoming better in protecting ntp um and so on uh so the understanding the dynamics of of the attack community is certainly one um questions where where we could make some some progress uh better understanding what's going on because it's really not a property of the protocol that is um of interest here that really is when is this actually [Music] started we're getting started to be ex exploited and the other observation is that of course protocols can be deployed in different ways and some of these deployments are uh more vulnerable and some are less vulnerable and and actually the the co-op standard contains security considerations telling people to not deploy the more vulnerable cases but these deployments did happen so why did they happen was this essentially just just a lack of communication that people who were planning deployments don't know about the problem um or were the the requirements that we put uh there were they actually uh not requirements that people could follow so so there was this incentive following the requirements because that created operation problems or something um so this is again something that that is very hard um to to assess from a distance and where we could uh really benefit uh from research um i mean people can go out and and try to get interviews with people who have running these deployments and so on this is uh research that that would be really useful and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "us in understanding what we actually uh can do uh to to make the recurrence of this less likely so for instance the the quick mandate is interesting because it's very hard it's very measurable you can write an interrupt test for for that probably uh and um so yeah what what are the the best ways uh to incentivize uh implementers and and deploy us uh not to create these vulnerabilities that's i think then the next step once we understand the motivations on both sides thank you sorry michael go ahead ask carson back here so on on your comments what what do you see as what kind of input do we need i mean you guys give an example there on research but who do we need to involve to get the type of data that you requested how do we progress this this work in that direction that you proposed we can come from from various angles here so um of course there is an existing community that examines the ddos earth space so talking to those people will be of interest uh we know uh of the the various uh open source implementations uh so this may be a channel to actually talk um to find and talk to uh people who are deriving um their implementations from these open source implementations and who are building applications um around it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "and then of course from from the the ddos research we might find big deployments that we want to address directly so that there was this one deployment that initially was responsible for almost all of the servers with a high amplification attack and it would have been interesting to try to find these people and talk to them to do interviews with them of course there are limitations to all these approaches but i think uh in in total they could generate some some useful information yes indeed i think that would be great but what how do you see is the next step is do we have people we should invite or or other sort of research projects we can fit into or master theses or what what would be the next step yes okay thank you i think we need to do all these all these things and i think starting with with the ddos research community and actually uh finding out the structure there and finding people who are interested in this uh what would be a good uh step to to move this forward good who should talk to the research leaders community oh there we are at the penholder issue again um so so somebody needs to push this forward and that's probably someone who already has a little bit in the way of channels talking to research uh communities and uh um yeah of course doing master fields in this space and so on these are all uh also very very useful because there's a lot of information out there that we haven't gathered yet but i think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "actually talking to to the people who do the investigations in this space will also be very interesting okay is there any sorry michael for keeping keeping you waiting i just wanted to sort of nail down this one is there anyone that is interested in going forward and uh addressing research community in this on these questions or maybe they already have experiences [Music] that that could be useful already or already now that we could sort of base some of the input here so let me just give an example so for instance we have pretty good connections to the riot community which is really an operating system in the iot space but in the right community there are people who actually are looking at vulnerability to to attacks and so on and uh gathering these people and and having a special workshop um bringing the various views of these people together might be a first step to get them interested in the subject okay good good starting point thanks sorry mike okay now michael please go ahead yes i mentioned one use case we've been working on discovery um and we've been taking an approach of a two-phase strategy where we have an uh an open mechanism that's kind of on on ramps and then we do authentication then we act as metadata but your talk may be realized that the onboarding of the on-ramp mechanisms may themselves you know result in amplification attacks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "of the return is greater than this three-fold factor so it occurs to me we're going to have to look more carefully at rolling back authentication to an earlier step in discovery if you want to avoid having discovery mechanisms be used for attacks so i just thought i'd mention that use case that i think we need to look in uh carefully at things like discovery that are meant to be open um but and would have to be to get started but maybe we need to really nail down exactly how to minimize the the information yeah i think good i think the important goal of this like talking about the nervous service to raise awareness i think i think it should cover more protocol than just co-op that was the example here i think there's a lot of i think people don't realize that the protocols and systems can be used for amplification attacks it's easy to forget that michael michael do you have a pointer to that or is it just some some sort of part of a project that you discovered talk about discovery and both of things later and i'll return to this topic okay thanks yeah michael richardson made some comments in the chat about things we could document in a way that is useful for both protocol designers and and implementers so i think we should look at those suggestions as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "okay very good i mean good discussions and good input for the work i think we have a good amount of interest on the whole area secure security and and secora going forward so yeah as as europa pointed out please don't hesitate you know communicating on the tingling research group mailing list are more on the topic and then look forward for announcements on the um invitations to the meetings on that topic and let's continue the discussions also there now moving forward um we have the research talk from savio savio please go ahead yeah and custom thank you very much for the space and for the time uh here i'm gonna my name is sabo morais i'm sorry here i'm gonna talk a bit about the the rece the product of my master's research my master's course research uh which resulted in the draft morris iotops issue which focuses in coordinating fast responses for two new responsibilities in home iot uh okay uh which was was carried uh in the in the labnet which is the computer network laboratory i have made my masters in the federal university of of the united states here in brazil so going to the point uh okay the main problem uh not not exactly the main problem but one of the problems that we have in home iot insecurity now is that we have a lot of persons having small problems uh that can be joined in a big problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "other things with infected devices or vulnerable devices that can have data leaked uh from malicious agents and for the end users it's hard to keep protected from these new vulnerabilities as every day's one new vulnerability uh is discovered from the community from the attackers or something like that and uh the idea behind this project is to speed up this response in a community view in a coordinated view for many home iot networks so one of the possible answers to this question only speeding up the the responses of for new vulnerabilities and attacks for home iot is by using ids or ips solutions but it's not exactly practical for end users and it's hard to coordinate [Music] all this response we always need some fine tuning we always need to get news attack signatures or or vulnerability signatures and we we and for doing this we somehow need technical expertise for for that and they read my users that does not have it and when we use uh anomaly solutions based in anomaly detection we can have some scenarios uh where the device uh is prof the common behavior that the normal behavior of the device is profiled during one attack during one infection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "has a high computational cost and maybe the current uh algorithms has high computational costs and in some cases uh we need to outsource this processing for cloud computing sources or something like that all supporting uh putting in risk my the privacy of the end users sending private data from my internal network to cloud computing services or to a technical expert a technical expert security expert for analyzing and fine-tuning my roles in my home network uh this is one of the points and another answer good an answer that came from from the ietf is the rfc852n the manufacturer usage description or just mud which gives important tools for us to dealing with vulnerabilities in networks and the first of all is that it somehow reduces the divide the possibility of one device being attacked or exploited by one vulnerability as mud provides means to to a manufacturer say to the to the network manager which is the expected by traffic for that device and then they can block all the other traffic which is not expected uh in the awards of of the manufacturer uh and besides besides of that we also have one important tool which is also mentioned in the in the in the rs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "that is uh but gives gives some tools to us that supports the generation of uh supporters on building a graph of the network communication of our iot devices independently of our topology and having this graph in mind or in our hand sorry we can uh identify it's easier for us to identify threats vulnerabilities attack paths or something like that because we have one one two that maps all the communications so uh this is also important and is it's used in this proposal in the proposal of issue [Music] but the problem of mud is that we still keep relying in the manufacture we originally only relied in few more updates of the security updates for that device now we have one one security tool for giving a kind of coordination coordinated uh response to a vulnerability for example a manufacturer again releasing mud file blocking the traffic that it's related to one one critical vulnerability but we are still we for uh for the manufacturer or the device vendor uh and not only this uh [Music] the users keep using the the iot devices even when uh they are uh they reached the the end of life the manufacturer is stopping to release security updates from the device so we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "need some support in this kind of situation not only during the life cycle of the device but after the end of its life cycle so the idea of issue of the proposed orphan shoe is to give the support this cognitive support as a second as a second security support for the ordinary user the common users so uh the the issue the name the complete name of issue is international exposure analyzer utility is a proposed framework to simplify the process of identification and classification of potential vulnerabilities and threats so ensure provides means to give a fast and coordinated responses in a community view for new vulnerabilities in iot not only vulnerabilities but attacks and and and malwares whatnot and so on so for doing this we have one one architecture that where we do he like rely in one 30-part support that our security specialists and security security experts that provide some some and attack signatures of the ongoing attacks in a moment of time [Music] but uh the fine-tuning process of these signatures is made by issue in the internal network by using the information provided by mug so we keep the end users privacy as we do not need the the third part support our rules our signature signatures"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "and all these works how this process works by using knowledge sharing for the the community protection uh as a whole okay and uh more than on the the holy community protection we also have one on protection for the whole internet community when we talk about for example botnets so this is the architecture of issue we have basically uh incorporated integrated the whole functioning of mud and in as the output of mud we have the communication graph of the of the network and then we we use this this input this output from what to process with issue and we have also the the malicious traffic malicious description file which is provided by the the security authorities the security experts to the to the home iot networks that will contain the attack signatures and in the in the board in the edge of the the whole network we will process this information and identify and assess potential threats in our network and by comparing the signatures of malicious trafficking of attacks and mars and the the actual traffic that we can have in our network which was provided by web so uh we also proposed in this draft the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "malicious description data model which is which is an end data model inspired is strongly expired in the data model where we use access control list for describing the uh the attack or in our signature the whole traffic for example a common network service so we use this this the acls for describing the traffic but we also have the context information in this signature uh which uh describes the the conditions the scenarios of where the combination of of exposure of vulnerabilities can can become a real threat a real risk where someone can exploit it for for care on one attack so uh this is basically how do we describe the the the two kinds of of malicious activities isolated attacks and malwares where we we separate the both things because attack attacks here we understand as one single attack a coordinate not coordinated attack carried by only one person exploiting one or two just a few vulnerabilities as for example someone brought foss in my my the ssh of my cpe for example and then our description is a way more complex and has much more complex information with combination of of critical traffic that can become or not malicious uh risky sorry so uh [Music] in each attack"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "or mower is is defined by one or more acl control list [Music] and this acl has one risk threshold this this threshold will be used to compare with the exposure that we identify in our network [Music] by summing by adding the value of all exposure to the malicious traffic that is associated to one access control entry so each access control entry that that describes for example the telemat the access to a telnet port has one one integer value uh associated that if there is a exists one exposure with some all this this this risky exposure and then identify is that acl is risky or not and also in the scenario of mowers we have combination of risky acls which which uh here we we mentioned as critical ecl sets that when we have this combination of criticals we have we indicate one action to take when we identify the this combination of critical issues so the process uh starts by by with the the network communication graph provided by mud so we get each one of these links uh this is a just for a visual tool that uh the mod visualizer provides us just to to give an example a visual example for you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "so each one of these links is compared with uh each one of the access confluences in the uh mtd file and then the first phase of the the assessment of threats uh is on identifying uh the exposure of vulnerabilities so we compare source and destination ids of the of that link of that communication with the access control entry the protocol that comes in the segments if it is icmp udpr tcp in case of this in tcp communication we can specify this tcp initiator the transport in case of transport header tcp or udp you can you will compare the source and destination ports and in case of icmp they type in the code of the message nothing exactly new but after identifying a complete match of of uh communication link and malicious traffic description we will combine all them for assessing the the the trap the this approach assessing the combination of exposures to understand if it is a really a real threat so uh we will sum the risk of the exposes exposed ac access control entries uh in the context of one device and access control list and verify if we we hit the alert or risk threshold and when when we hit the the his threshold we will go to the second phase of the of the decision this uh that is specific specifically uh assessing the trap where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "in the context of isolated attacks we just block or suggest to block depending on the implementation and that's that link that communication or in the case of malware we will see all the acls that access control list that are in the context of that malware and verify if we have [Music] some combination of critical sales acl sets as a risky as as a risky combination as a great combination and then take the action that is indicated in the in the malicious traffic descriptive and then when when that file can see which links we can block single links simple links uh and broke the chain of the attack and reduce the threat the risk of trap so we have carried some some experiments in the experience by for comparing the protection that comparing the the protection of mud and issue and also in one network with no protection uh by using one mirai variant i i don't think i have time time for explaining this this this experiment but we have really we had really good uh results with issue where for example uh while we were using mud we still had generation of the dos uh packets in in a private network and while in issue we did not have any generation mud blocked almost every traffic but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "but ensure did not generate anyone so i can't go ahead but basically it should block at all the traffic that we that we describe it and this is the the relative gain that we have that we had of issue over month i had we have one paper published with this this this results but and maybe we can we can check it later but the next steps that we have now is for using issue as one optimization for anomaly detection algorithms as we initially try to make it should be be an ips itself but it will probably have a big impact of the in the usability by blocking critical blocking critical communications based just on in the risk so we understand that maybe ensure can be improved by using its output as a filter for the input of an on anomaly detection algorithm and then we are planning to test with different approaches uh for profiling the vast devices traffic and identifying these anomalies uh and about improving the issue proposal itself the draft itself we currently are still working in the transport layer but considering what we had in our in our experiment we saw that we still can exploit dns traffic even with with the deployment of issue so we are planning to go to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "application layer only for protecting dns uh [Music] and uh also deploy and test ensuring in the real world for measuring the impacts in usability and see other things that we can improve it and we also have one undergoing one ongoing undergrad uh thesis being developed in the federal university of eugene on a collective uh approach show to profiling one hour uh with the same idea of keeping the end user private even when we share uh data of our traffic but we are still trying to find some ways to share this information and keep privacy of my network uh and the final output of this research the idea is to have the automatic generator of malaysia traffic description files so uh that's all for now but i'm hoping to listen to any comments or questions thank you great thank you savio and for anyone who would like to learn more about this topic i guess um reading a draft and having a look at the related research paper are those the best sources your question can you repeat this yes no you should be able to talk oh yeah so but my question was like if someone would like to have a bit more reading on the topic um you have now a link to the draft on the slides um i guess also we could put a link to the research paper that you had on the topic that people can kind of have a look at that would that be the best sources"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "for more information and i can also share with you with you my master's thesis which describes more about it so you can you can have it also but i don't have a public link from the university for example for diseases i can check the the fire okay thank you carson go ahead yeah i like the offer of sharing your master's thesis so that could go into a collection of uh documents that we collect in conjunction with the secor activity um but i i have um two questions one one very specific to your slides you you went over slide 13 a little bit quickly um so can you quickly explain what this two letter you go back to slide 13 and quickly explain what the uh these two letter things were i'm not sure i understood that which slides 13 1 3 yep this one so you have cb and i and sn what what are what are those uh the the meaning of controllable controllable bots is the number of bots that really were connected with the common and control of the of the myriad uh but not divided in the variant we use it in this pyramid so how many bots really connected to the to the command and control circuit so the the first two items we can see here is that uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "normally uh more than 100 nodes go into the the botnet and some 20 less than 20 are infected and when you switch on your mud implementation you you only have 40 who join the the net and almost no one is infected do you read this right we had some scenarios where we started with in all the scenarios we had at least one device uh infected but in this we had 100 bucks in in the experiment uh in in the paper in the diseases i explained better this number but this this metric the the cb uh we get from the really connected device to the to the to the server so even with the device infected if it starts infected in the in the running of this experiment uh it cannot connect to the server because some solutions block well so for example in this second scenario uh from the left to the right where all the devices were infected but mud was was deployed uh but mod based rooms were were deployed uh only 40 or or i think that was it devices could conduct even effect it could connect to the command control server okay while for example in the same scenario with the issue protection if you go to the to the right the first one in the in the extreme right all the devices were infected but no no one of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "them could connect to the to the command control server michael do you want to ask on on this point i have a different point and i don't want to lead this discussion as phrase so if you want to ask no that's a different point okay um so my second point uh was uh you you now have these uh mud files and the malicious traffic descriptions and so on um and of course that um to be useful this needs to become a pretty sizable collection of data so do you have any idea how you would uh want uh to to organize cooperation with other groups on sharing this uh data so that there is for instance this group in australia which has collected a lot of mod files and i think it would be interesting interesting to uh bring these data together and get a little bit of a synthesis uh between what we have from from the various groups uh working on this do you have any any idea how to do this or do you want to help doing that the mod files that i used in the experiment were the were the ones that was provided by the group in australia so the the networking started there uh but yeah i can i can share the the malaysia traffic the malicious description file uh and i also have in my github account the data that i collected from this experiment if someone else can can check it and they can find some way to to share all this information but i think that in the draft i have i have put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "the as one example of mtd file the example that i used in this experiment uh based in this variant of my life so it is all it is public but maybe we can find some some other way to share it i am completely open for for sharing it yeah great michael michaels um so i guess my question is so you have uh a mud controller that's running i'm wondering what what what did you use um and since mirai mostly has infected uh routers um and some dv dvrs what were your actual devices that you were that were vulnerable that you were using and how did you protect them and with your control firewall in in the experiment or in general in the proposal well well you did an experiment yeah so i'm interested in what controller you used and you know you wrote mud files and not every so far i don't know anyone who's implemented all of the mud spec um so i was interested in what you'd had and and then if uh um also and if you actually were just using routers which were home routers which were vulnerable to mirai whether the mud controller was running"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "on them they were protecting themselves or something else was protecting them for the experiment i have as i as i said in the in these lights it was in vitro past like i used docket containers with open telnet servers for simulating vulnerable iot devices so it was not like in actual devices it was really in vitro not like real traffic it was just like the my right traffic uh in the in the network it was really individual okay so basically what you're telling me is you had containers running vulnerable uh instances uh with a telnet server running and i guess this is some really old open wrt or something like that running inside of it or and then your mud controller was something you built yourself really the the mod controller i have just made it by myself the process that mod defines for for using for creating the the rules and then i deploy those rules uh by hand with [Music] in the the open v switch which was connecting the the devices okay i understand all right thank you okay thank you sorry thank you for the good discussions we're now approaching towards the end of the uh this slot um so thanks again for the good discussions definitely let's continue them on their thinking research school mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "and also of course on the sec core activity i think this could be a good fit to be also discussed there um and now we have next w3c web of things update from michael mccool let me allow you to share the slides they should be showing up any moment now here we go great there you go oh so we'll say i've got a fair number of slides here but i will uh basically uh quickly go over things that people have seen before most likely and then focus on some topics that are more discussion oriented so i'm just going to dive right in but just be clear i'm going to be flipping through some slides quickly but the slides are available to look at them afterwards um so okay what's the other things we're basically trying to adapt web technology to iot and the the gap we identified a while back was a lack of a common you know narrow waste and the ship had sailed make that narrow waste protocol so we focused instead on common metadata to describe interfaces across protocols and so we're kind of looking at you know how to build the layer between protocols uh not just focusing on one particle um and and the main deliverable which is already published is the thing description uh we are currently on the second round and we are looking at uh new standards including one for discovery which i'll talk about here okay so again that's what td looks like and it's basically a json ld file meaning it has semantic support and in fact we in our discovery mechanism we're looking at uh enabling sparkle queries to allow full semantic functionality"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "um i'm just going to skip through this and get to the meat i'll skip this too this says say that we generally speaking uh can deploy tds in different use cases it can be you know peer-to-peer devices it could be clouds or devices it could be between two cloud services and so forth so we can describe a range of different services they could be individual devices and it could also be services in the network or on the edge okay so i want to do a bit more of a deep dive into this and discuss uh the point that i raised earlier about amplification attacks among other issues so constrain my pets here so um so in discovery we have a spec that is currently under review and we're hoping to publish it later this year and this spec is about okay we have this metadata format how do i get it and how i get it in kind of an ad hoc fashion and so uh we're looking at i mean a two-phase strategy where we have introductions and we the introductions are kind of uh don't require authentication and the second stage is expiration and exploration does require authentication and the general idea is to reuse existing mechanisms for introductions including simply being given a url or having it with beacon or upnp or things like this and then the output introductions is a set of urls which then you need to access a service authenticate and then get full metadata for devices so the challenge here and then the the exploration services the second phase can allow you to do queries and even"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "things like sparkle endpoints to do uh queries we've also been looking at json path and xpath the problem of having is json path is not standardized yet it's still in flight under uh i under ietf so we're kind of waiting for that but it currently lacks particular uh substring matching and regular expression matching which we feel are important for filtering out tds xpath is great and it has json support but there's not a lot of industry pickup of it and there are enough implementations out there so we decided not to include it and sparkle is there um but it's relatively expensive to implement so um so we're kind of uh waiting for jsonpath to really make queries be uh appeals by the right level um we also are still uh we were originally going to be doing location based queries but we decided to defer that because we're we're waiting for some convergence on geospatial data um anyways uh so i i have i have a link in the in the minutes about an issue about the amplification attacks and we're we're probably going to figure out how to limit you know introductions that return multiple urls um and require uh i'm going to look particular at core rd which is one of the introductions that we've included um probably require authentication if you have lots of results from core id um anyways uh let me just plow through here so we've been updating our scripting api this is not normative but uh we've been looking very closely at how to deal with things at discovery as well and we also have various integrations within the node-red that also support discovery now um i won't really dive into this just these are uh out there and there are implementations of them node what is an open source implementation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "that can consume tds and then talk to them using the watt abstraction but it's not a normative part of the spec uh we also have a huge document with lots and lots of use cases and we're currently uh analyzing these to derive requirements for a further round of work on other things um and in particular you know looking at things like uh you know muds looking at you know proxies um how hubs work um lands and onboarding mechanisms so there's a bunch of things that are currently gaps in the watt spec that kind of are appear in some use cases a geolocation information so we're going to be looking at those probably in a new round but we haven't been decided yet but sometime in the fall we're now finishing up this phase and the fall will be discussing you know do we do another round and if so what does it include so i would welcome comments on things that are gaps i'm not going to flavor that i will just mention that we have a bunch of links here if you want to do lots of reading but again the new stuff is uh updates to td 1.1 we have a discovery which is totally new we have updates to architecture and there's also use cases document down there we also have a brand new website that is trying to organize things better and that's the last one and the last link is the one you can remember because that has fixed everything else uh next week we have a plug fest if you'd like to join us and play with watt you're more than welcome uh just send me an email i'm also gonna in a minute have a slide talking about some new applications and uh of uh what in commercial applications actually um and also some open source projects uh for discovery we also have some implementations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "at least two of which are open source um and uh allow you to do queries of various types and as far as ietf goes a couple major things i didn't mention actually json schema which is actually quite important to us but also json path and and also things like core id and cos a and asdf so we're we also have a thing model and we're looking very closely at making that interconvertible with sdf so the same information can be expressed both ways uh another relationship looking at closely is open api so a lot of what things described by watt tvs could also be described by open api but open api is sort of very targeted http and web of things thing descriptions are open to other protocols including mqtt and co-op and we're also looking at bacnet and uh opc ua and other things like this um anyways we're also been looking at signatures to be able to nail down and constrain changes to watt tds that's not in the current spec we have a draft but we need to like uh we need to align that with json ld signatures which are in flight right now and there's also geospatial data and we're working with ogc to try and get that aligned with their standards okay so just mentioned some applications so takanatha corporation is a huge construction company in japan and they have been using uh one of the things for building information systems so for large commercial buildings keeping track of all the various devices and presenting unified interfaces to them and actually siemens has a commercial product as well as the same thing so we've been actually been uh looking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "at collaborating with link building data model and things like looking at the bot ontology and things like this things which can work well with the json lv uh infrastructure that we're establishing with thing descriptions so what thing descriptions can include extensions from other vocabularies to handle other kinds of metadata and so you could examine uh imagine for example identifying what room a device is in or what zone a a control or a sensor affects and so forth and these are actually quite useful in bim systems and in building management systems netso it's a startup out of uh basically from tom university tum in munich and they are looking at creating uh dashboards and hubs so the other place that uh what method is useful is to generate you know uh integrated dashboards for a set of devices that you want to coordinate and have a nice single user interface for um ditto is an open source project which is primarily however been being driven by bosch and is basically you know a foundation of their commercial products and they're focusing on digital twins and i will say that oracle is also involved in what is heavily invested in digital twins and has a way to interconvert between their proprietary digital twin model and web of things tvs so there's also some activity around generally digital twins and having services uh that can you know shadow or provide additional functionality uh to uh iot devices or even just simulate them for testing so that's the duo project and that's available under eclipse um okay so i guess i have like five minutes left let me just uh mention a range of things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "that we are you know thinking about doing next and that we probably need some research on so one gis integration um i didn't mention smart city applications we there's another group in w3c looking at smart cities one of the things we needed to consider there is gis integration because very often in smart cities you have to know where an iot sensor is what it's measuring and you also have to look at things like historical data so there's an ieee group that just started looking at standardized query mechanisms for time series databases and for geospatial queries so we're very interested in for example extending discovery to discover devices in a certain area um and how to do that uh in a in a scalable way but that requires us to standardize the metadata for where a device is um data management digital twins there's a bunch of patterns like shadows and simulation systems and proxies we need to figure out and we have to figure out how to handle uh historical data perhaps and event notifications uh like uh you know how often you get them and whether you want to get notified if things are differ from past experience or whatever okay however i would say the biggest blocker right now for watt is definitely security so what wanted to replicate the success of the web in iot what does the web have going for it it's like common data format html like common protocol http and it's a common security infrastructure structure for identity and keys ca certificate for is okay so in the wat we focused on standardizing the data format"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "and describing protocols to get some consistency around the abstraction for protocols okay but we don't have and we have declared out of scope in our past work is a common mechanism for establishing identities and keys and onboarding and all this stuff and that's a big problem especially on lands and local networks that are there segmented so this is probably the biggest barrier right now what can be used if you can depend on ca if you don't have the ability to use ca for example in a segmented network you need some other mechanism which is currently out of scope for what uh and that means that browsers for example necessarily work out of the box with what because you have to set up search and things first so this is a big problem uh we i think it's also kind of something we need to work with browser vendors and to adopt something that works well iot devices online and it's not like technical problem there are known ways to deal with this it's a problem of getting the browser vendors on board and and having some common system everyone agrees on is the right thing to do so that's something that's probably going to be another big chunk of work in the next little while also been looking at accessibility mapping uh you know input and output modalities and uh doing things like having smart city services for mobility and so forth okay i'm just gonna stop there i know i've been a little long but according to schedule a couple minutes so yeah maybe we have time we can take questions yes thanks michael we have a few minutes for questions uh carson go ahead yeah i just wanted to to thank you for this i think this this list of gaps is definitely a very useful uh piece for us and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "may we actually should go into documenting in a little bit more detail what those gaps are um there is currently a discussion going on i forget which mailing list this was um about uh doing pki like stuff with iot devices that that are in a home environment so i think that that will be interesting in this uh context um i'm sure yeah richardson has has more thoughts about that yeah and i think we need a good technical solution and then we need to get it adopted by browser vendors so one of the motivations of doing what is to use browsers as a user interface iot devices right but you can't do that right now at least not easily without having a lot of security set up which an ordinary user will not do so that's our biggest problem right now we need to get the browser vendors to buy into it yeah we would need to understand their incentive structure in this space and build something that hits that incentive structure so that's not just a technical problem it's not a technical problem that's right okay if nobody else wants to say something i might mention that jason path had an interim meeting yesterday and we have a way forward for regular expressions now you mentioned substrings do we need that when we have regular expressions well no it's just that regular expressions are probably more than we need so i i sent him my comments already saying that we at least have substrings but if you do have regular expressions that's great of course okay good thank you okay thank you thank you mike maybe one quick question like um to continue the uh discussions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "on these topics what are the best venues um for example for the um sdf web of things interval i think wishing meetings i will definitely continue that i guess for the security aspects secure perhaps um what about for the all the others what do you think is the best way to continue the discussion well w3c has both interest groups and working groups and so we're going to be now looking at i think the interest group need to like explore various approaches in a non-normative setting that's sort of more researchy but at some point we want to get to the point where we have something we can work towards a standard on but i think we really need to do is work on our use cases and get the business case and the incentive structure in place and like i said get passwords on board but yeah i think that sec core may be useful but i think we want to do is look at the actual requirements and look at existing mechanisms that are already out there and see what we can simply adopt and push forward and ideally it was pick something that's already been standardized and is something that uh you know is worth it while adopting as part of other things okay great thanks yeah and perhaps we could take a session in one of the working meet upcoming working meetings too to explore this in in more detail but thanks a lot for the overview and very very good uh good discussions so now let's move forward to the 1dm update so michael coster please go ahead so michael can you request the slide sharing ah should i i will slide uh slideshare hang on how do i do this yeah it's the second button um yeah i click right on what what shows up you know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "screen the screen request yeah can you try again the slide request so the second button or if you wish you can also share from your screen you look better well that's what i'm oh second button uh slides okay okay that's fine now okay great i got it that'll work better fine uh let's see where is it there it is got it it should show up in a second yes there you go okay it's there you see it yes now my video works out looks like my video's working too cool can you see the slides yes we can see the slides okay cool so um i'm gonna mostly talk about one dm and and summarize some stuff but also have a slide on um iot schema so how do i advance the slides is that is that real obvious here or there we go okay there's a button at the bottom okay so um so where we are is uh we have a lot of contributed models from oma spec works and ocf that constitute about 200 definitions in our playground we have developed an operational process for selecting and converging and what we call adopting models but this is a hard problem to uh to to do and what we've what we've kind of come up with as a metric uh as as midterm ultimately we want everyone to be using the same models but in the midterm we want to come up with models that will mostly work for all the different device ecosystems and there we recognize there may be some corner cases but this is what we're kind of shooting for is a midterm goals this is sort of where where we are conceptually in in the organization"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "and we really have great interworking between ocf and oma uh demonstrated already with the converters and in fact a little bit more about that later and we've um we've out of the process have come some requirements for how designs really ought to be structured to meet everybody's requirements from simple to complex without losing functional uh interoperability so internal functional modularity is kind of what that looks like how do we layer functions within a definition so that we can have a semantic thing that has some some varying depth to it and and won't go too deep into that but um going forward what we're doing um sort of the new stuff there's a new mailing list we're off causeway now and we're on uh o so you can sign up for that it's just one dm at groups dot io we are continuing to refine the convergence process um working toward how we create evolvable designs and so we're recognizing we're probably not just going to be adopting existing designs but um rather adopting sort of refinements of those designs and then what are the best practices around that to arrive at at those results really great development in my opinion we've created bespoke repositories uh what i mean by that is that as an organization or model developer you can come in and create a 1dm repo that uses the ci tools but doesn't uh have a convergence requirement upfront so so only if you satisfy the ci requirements you can you can basically publish models on one dm in your own name space so we have these table name spaces and that's kind of the idea is that from there we can build interworking and incremental convergence much in the way that we've seen with one [Music] oma and ocf so far and these are you know can be will be public-facing models with common"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "ci tools but the the content governance is loosely coupled you could sort of have your own uh way of deciding what how models get get incremented and versioned until you start contributing to them to the adopted models so um if you want to figure out what that means a little bit more come to our meetings and join up um we're adding more models from bluetooth mesh and it makes it easier to do this we're starting with the models they've already published and already using across the bluetooth range so that would be the characteristics and the data types that they've already defined and we're going to publish sdf models for those and then move up the stack if you will as we get composable models toward the bluetooth mesh and those will be good examples of composable models because there's some depth of feature that that we have there to work with so we're working on how we compose models internally and reuse definitions semantically that's an important thing for interoperability and extending our models with linking and composing complex objects and this sort of thing also one of our main goals is to do an sdf pressure test and what i guess we've concluded as we're ready to sort of go to um the next step with sdf that it's working as it's designed for the object granularity we originally intended but of course now we've got an expanded use case where we need to do some some of this internal modularity as well as um complex objects and composed objects and they're probably some more features there but we we think that even sdf as it is we have an extension point that we can use to exercise new features that um that will probably work pretty well so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "but we're working on coming up with some examples so validate all of that but that you know the things we talked about the internal modularity um extension points for mapping to different things that so-called um mapping files uh complex compositions and we find that you know working with other frameworks is sort of like complex composition in terms of their there's some loosely coupled uh models for building up structure and system structure that um are non-hierarchical that we need to think about so um that's kind of a summary of where we are with one dm the high level points one thing to point out that this bespoke repositories we already have um the 1dm and ocf separate repository so that model is deployed and we're we're basically looking for more people now to be able to come in and more orgs to be able to come in and build those so for example if we could re-engage with well what we're going to do with bluetooth for example but then a couple of our earlier uh interested parties like sunspec have gone off and created a bunch of modbus register definitions that can be turned into one data model uh models now as well okay and the last thing i wanted to just sort of summarize people might be wondering what's going on with iot schema we haven't had a meeting since last august um basically just to refresh everybody's memory we were building an rdf framework we are building and really built it for this event action property meta model to come up with definitions so it's essentially what 1dm and sdf does but we were using rdf there and there are a there's a good set of definitions there we've been playing with those with w3c and the linkage uh using what we call semantic annotation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "to say that oh this data set here corresponds to the control of a light switch and then we can sort of uh link that back semantically to the to the iot schema definition of a light switch and describe its affordances uh connected to that semantic definition of that sort of is meant to cover all light switches that's kind of the idea of iot schema so we're compatible with w3c it's been used in plug fest um it seems like a good pattern but but we really didn't get the engagement of people to create models so that's that's kind of happening more in 1dm so we're looking at maybe what repurposing uh iot schema and using it to be an rdf interface to extend the modeling to physical domains but we really don't have much participation the we have a w3c community group but it's been dormant for some time and there's a problem as i'm not in the org i was in so i can't be the chair of it um we're not really extending schema.org anymore either so um i don't really have a forward direction for for this but um just just to get everyone up to speed that we're we're not really active right now and um but there are some proposals to to use the the name in the space to to fill some other gaps in the industry it's just no one really working on that right now so that's that's really all i have i'm not sure about the timing and probably time for some questions but mainly um mainly wanted to can i bring up the stuff that we're doing in uh one data model going forward questions comments audi has hand up yeah and also please fill in any gaps with things that i have failed to explain great great thank you michael yeah i was thinking of commenting perhaps saying i was asking for the previous presenters like the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "for the 1dm work i mean talking about model conversions how we get to commons common semantics etc a 1dm license group is an open group so just joining the mailing list 20 meetings i guess that's the best way forward um and then if you are more interested on the let's say the standardization aspects the sdf the language standardization is happening in the asdf working group uh and then for the more researching topics uh in the wishing meetings we have been discussing many many topics are related to 1dm and sdf so i guess those three venues at least to me would be go to places on this topic ok any more questions or comments on this one okay we're actually quite okay on on time here at thanks a lot uh for the update michael and let's continue the discussions in those aforementioned venues and then go ahead karsten with the sworn tina teaser yeah i i didn't want to impinge on endurance presentation of the new segal work but i have one item that has been lying around in the research group for for half a decade now that has recently gotten new attention so in in 2016 to the 2017 we did some research um for for a manufacturer of iot devices where they wanted to put these iot devices on the internet but somehow needed to protect them from unwanted traffic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "on the internet because that unwanted traffic would drain their battery so in particular the wake on radio scheme that these devices were using that needed to be very tightly uh controlled and we came up with something we called swan secure awaken radio nudging which is essentially the yellow part in in the picture where we have a client that wants to talk to the device and we have a last hop router so imagine that the left arrow is much longer than the right arrow and the last half router is essentially the device's friend in the network or if you're not familiar with that terminology you could call it a policy enforcement point and that router only lets packets through that the device really wants and this of course works by by the device uh sending out grants and the client can use this ground to generate a token and the token is checked by by the router um so this was just a proof of concept uh we we did this and wrote it up in 2017 um but they didn't really want to to push this through standardization in any way because we thought this was just a scheme that was interesting to to document now recently um there has been a renewed interest in this and maybe in in generalizing the concept a little bit um and actually adding um roles to the model and this is the white part of the figure uh where we have authorization managers which which look a lot like the four leg uh actual model that was discussed in in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "ace uh it's not exactly the same but some of the things are uh similar so basically the the device uh no longer has to do everything on its own like like what was necessary and so on but can delegate some of that to the device authorization the manager and the device authorization manager talks to a client authorization manager which does all the necessary work to prepare things so grants can be asked for by the client and the grants can be obtained right from the client authorization manager and then the the client can compute a token send it over um the the path to the router which doesn't need to be a last abroad in this case uh anymore because we are not only talking about wake on radio um and then we would uh have the the router verify the token again and uh send the data onto the device and possibly the the token will be sent with that because the the device might be interested in doing some of these short checks themselves so we have more flexibility in putting the politics policy decision point uh somewhere so what was in the device and so on can be in in one or two of the authorization uh managers and the authorization manager can also do the communication with the routers uh on the way and what we are really interested in right now is two things uh one actually coming up with a protocol that can be efficiently executed by the routers so possibly using something that that is done using in-network computing uh something that the coin research group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "would be interested as well so that that's one layer of the discussion but this is maybe not the interesting part for the think to think research group the the interesting part for the thing to think research group is uh did we get the the right uh model here do we have the right players so for instance is it a reasonable assumption that that the client authorization manager actually talks to the policy enforcement point do we have to do this in the device authorization manager so who who actually has the job of protecting whom and and what information is exchanged before that can be done and so on so i think that's really the interesting part here getting up getting the right players defined getting up processes uh security workflows that can be run to make this happen and of course deriving crypto from that that actually can be executed by in network computing so that's where the two areas are linked so the simple approach of having the client design each packet obviously works but we need very fast routers to make that happen okay so that was just a teaser i think we we should have some more discussion about this and we already have had some interchanges between the thinking research group people that we might want to work on this but i wanted to to make this more visible to the greater research group community great thank you karsten any questions comments i noticed there was one comment from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "mccool in the in the chat that it's somewhat similar the mechanism in set way although that one is more specialized yeah i wasn't aware of that so that's a good input thank you thanks michael okay and i guess the uh follow-up discussions thinking research group mailing list um perhaps that's where the discussions would be happening going forward okay thank you thank you karsten and and and thank you everyone um i guess we know we're actually quite nicely on time exactly one minute over the of the planned time for for the wrap-up so yeah as mentioned in the beginning this was one of the overview summary meetings that we have for the research group and then for the more leader discussions we have a in different forms um sessions where working meetings interim meetings etc so please do uh join those discussions um when then they are usually announced on on the on the mailing lists and also as usual please do use the mailing list for that for the discussions between the meetings that's easy way for everyone to stay and stay in touch okay but that was uh everything we had planned for today any more final questions from comments for anyone before we wrap up for the day okay in in that case thank you everyone for joining today uh let's stay in touch in in the upcoming meetings and for those of you traveling physically to uh itaf113 uh good luck and looking forward to seeing many of you soon face to face unfortunately i will be myself over there but hopefully very soon again uh in these ongoing meetings so with that thank you have a nice rest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "today and see you soon you"
  }
]
