[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] now you\u0027re telling me yeah I don\u0027t know if that meeting [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:25",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] hi everyone welcome to interior at ATF 100 sorry we\u0027re a few minutes late so not well everyone should be familiar now with not well yeah so would you guys mind taking your conversation outside the room thank you sorry Ari should be familiar with not well if not please do read it this an IETF meeting in interior as you know minutes are taken thanks so much for trillion for that the min meeting is being recorded and your presence is locked blue sheets are passing around the on line minutes will be on this etherpad link if you want to take a look and contribute during the meeting the recording some minutes are public and may be subject to discover in the event of litigation so please make sure your your sang the blue sheets also they\u0027re going around we have a note-taker can we have a jab jab or scribe someone could help us with the Java please thank you very much thanks a lot Michael okay and thanks he and for the 40 minutes so the agenda will gonna "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:27",
    "text": "give you a quick update then we\u0027re gonna have updates from the TSV from Gauri is Gauri in the room okay great perfect so then we have the provisioning domains from Eric Tao Tom and bloody near and Jin way at the end we have a couple of remote presenters so we\u0027re gonna try to make it as smooth as possible moving on to the working group status update the privacy considerations for IP broadcast and multicast well he\u0027s been submitted for IES gene for publication so that\u0027s good news generic EVP encapsulation there\u0027s an update to zero for IP over intentionally partially partitioned links the current version is expired and I don\u0027t know if Eric the you have any comments about IP PL is just the current version is expired and if you can give a quick Eric not mark yeah I know I and I have some edits to do based on some comments from Pascal so I need to go do that but I haven\u0027t don\u0027t have anything else on the list so okay thank you then the probe document is also being submitted to ISD for publication and IP tunnels in their internet architecture well it\u0027s we\u0027re still looking for updates to incorporate the BCP recommendation so hopefully Joe and X will take care of that perfect so next on the agenda is Cory hi I\u0027m Cory Cory first from TS vwg and I will try and take you through four drafts this is interesting I\u0027m going to try and move further back so I can read with my bifocals so the think on the screen in front of me okay so I\u0027m going to look at three drafts in TS vwg and quickly highlight them because they may be of interest to you or they may be of interest to things that you\u0027re going to develop in the future that\u0027s like this one is work that\u0027s practically finished but not quite and we being for some time and supporting diffserv in various ways and there is work to produce a lower effort class for diffserv and specify it so that we can have scavenger clasp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:28",
    "text": "traffic things like software update background letdown Lord wherever you want this less service than is offered by best effort some people are running this in the network we see s1 which was a diff served cold point used for other purposes doesn\u0027t really fit into the diff surf framework so a TS vwg work item by roland who\u0027s over there is trying to set a new standard dscp and our primary goal is to avoid other traffic being mistakenly classified as scavenger traffic and to do that we\u0027re going to open a new registry if we can which is we\u0027re going to start using the diffserv called point two or three whether we do that or not is a read thing to be debated on Friday so if yer understand diffserv and you\u0027re interested in the use of diffserv core points in your networks then please pay attention to that last line there that we\u0027re going to talk about this on Friday okay probably good enough EC ends probably a bit more something that people have been talking about recently and we have a draft called EC and experimentation which is about to be finally published as an RFC so this is heads up of work that\u0027s been done but it has implications for many people the changes it makes our first of all it changes the use of ECT one the ECT one coal point in all IP v6 and v4 packets now is repurposed it specifically is being allocated for use for experimentation and the important thing is that equipment must not now interpret the cee mark in the ec n field to mean that the packet is lost equivalent it doesn\u0027t indicate the packets as being lasting it indicates only the packet as being congestion marked that may make difference if you\u0027re monitoring networks or if you\u0027re using that information it also makes different to the transport protocols so the transport protocols are being updated separate updates are in progress in TCP M to do an update for the marking when EC T 0 is set the first EC encore point that\u0027s the aid work that also is very near working group last call so look at TC p.m. for that and the work on EC M plus plus and a family of drafts referring to l4 s which are progressing through the TS vwg group all of this is transport stuff but if you\u0027re interested in network layer headers the bits are carried at the network layer and people look at the network layer so there\u0027s an interaction here and that interaction has changed next slide please final one and I guess one of the reasons why I was asked to come talk here by my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:29",
    "text": "culture was and we\u0027re considering work currently on adding path layer empty.you discovery for Datagram protocols so let me just talk a little bit slowly through this one and we all know that TCP can send big segments through the network and that even works when using pppoe or any other encapsulation because magically TCP figures out how big a packet to send and how it does that there is sometimes it takes path to big messages and that\u0027s good when that works sometimes it uses MSS clamping that\u0027s common in DSL networks they simply rewrite the field and eventually endpoints learn the right way and many TCP stacks also use path layer MTU discovery which sends big packets through and checks using the transport protocol when those packets get through and therefore as a firm understanding of what actually works of course all these three things are usually using combination and I don\u0027t know anyone who\u0027s actually looked at which ones are the most important because we tend to do all three of them and hopefully between them we get a good answer because TCP kind of works oh but oh dear and some people don\u0027t think we\u0027re going to use TCP much anymore and there are tunnels and other things out there that don\u0027t use TCP surprisingly so what I\u0027m saying you don\u0027t use TCP well of course the ICN path ICMP path to big messages still give you advice or sending a to bigger packet so that part of the algorithm works but it\u0027s not universally supported in the network many paths to big messages get filtered black holes occur so wouldn\u0027t it be nice if you could do a similar sort of treatment for UDP packets and that brings a whole lot of issues like how do you choose probe sizes what sort of - do you probe with how do you react when you lose a probe and some of these paths are unidirectional so we have to provide some sort of feedback mechanism to make this happen and you may even have to probe to see whether the data is getting through it\u0027s all a little bit of a tricky mess but we were brave and we something so next slide I\u0027m going to talk about this on Friday in TS vwg what we\u0027re proposing is a state machine which tries to find a good effective path MTU for a UDP or a protocol running on top of UDP and the ones were actually targeting the moment are the SCTP based and calculations because we have running code in bsd that actually does most of this we can adapt that and bring that up to date to make it work we have worked with UDP options which is job touches draft in TS vwg to stick a few bytes between the UDP payload and the IP header some people think that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:29",
    "text": "gloriously good and the people think it\u0027s horrible but it is a way of transporting the information you need for this particular piece of work if the work is adopted then we\u0027d like to pan it out to look at other transports and that could also include tunnels and anything else perhaps even wonderful quick if they want this way of doing it currently an individual draft and is to be discussed on friday at TS vwg maybe we won\u0027t adopt this time I don\u0027t know and but I think in future we\u0027d like to do some work in this space that was my very quick overview I have to answer questions if there are any thanks a lot so are there any questions and now more from the interior perspective the discussion as Gauri said it\u0027s going to take in this particular last item on friday TV BS g t-- SVG but are there any quick questions now okay there are non please if you are interested in the topic please do participate on Friday at the working group session yeah heads up is going on thank you [Music] Harry okay here\u0027s an update on the PVD draft it\u0027s the first time we are presenting the - zero zero since it has been accepted to the working group I came around September last time so there\u0027s a draft for couple of people although at the author\u0027s I think this room as files and rows of maybe except David and Marcus so what are pvd\u0027s there is an RFC that explain it and basically we spend two three minutes explaining what the PVD is and then we\u0027ll jump to some more discussion and updates so PVD is a set of related information think about DNS name servers Pio next stop and so that works together and pvd\u0027s can be identified by what we call the PVD ID both on the network transmission as well inside the host we also think that we can go much deeper or much further than playing DNS information we can provide information for instance about whether there is a captive portal whether there is a walled garden and to which a piece set of IP address the wall garden is limited to we can provide maybe on some bandwidth measurement or settings for the first stop the current proposal is to use into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:31",
    "text": "ipv6 routers attachment only so that\u0027s mainly targeting ipv6 we can work maybe as well with ipv4 if we want to do it I will describe mainly the v6 part so in the array we use a neighbor discovery option the start of course with the time the length we have a couple of bits that are reserved and tour them as important with a sequence number I shall come back on this and we have the PVD ID the PvdA ID itself is a DNS fully qualified domain name that\u0027s very important because it allows you to fetch additional information two things to note here it\u0027s so simple simple it requires as well if you have multiple pvd\u0027s inside the same network it needs to be sent in different arrays so it\u0027s one array / p VD that\u0027s the current set and that will come back on your comment on this two flags H signals that you can use the fully qualified domain name that\u0027s there to fetch more information from a server over HTTP the alb it says a you can associate this PVD with the information you receive by DHCP v4 obviously you can add one and only one PVD with this bit set right sequence number R for what simply because we use if you had the H flag we use the fully qualified domain name to fetch additional information once and then you forget about it with the assumed and the sequence number is changing the oath is required or should at least to fetch a refresh so if you change the additional information let\u0027s say in one hour then you pushes array with the castle unique ass with a different sequence number then all the O\u0027s will simply trigger a refresh that\u0027s a way to push new information here so as I said if we have a ray dvd one PVD we\u0027re a legacy router sending erase without the PVD ID options become in what we call an implicit DVD which are identified by locally on the host by the interface and the link local address of the router sending this piece or array the so unique ID we can use as well and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:33",
    "text": "link the information that you can receive by dhcpv6 simply by assuming that the dhcpv6 relay or server is the same link local address as your router it\u0027s not perfect but what\u0027s most of the time so more information as soon as you have the edge bits set what you do at it so should it\u0027s not a masked by the way the host can use HTTP over TLS and fetch this well-known URI and the PVD this basically information retrieval HTTP it\u0027s a JSON file some example here we require to put a name we retry to put an expiry as well and so when this one expires you need to fetch a new one it\u0027s kind of redundant on the sequence number but it\u0027s a kind of more foolproof and we have the set of prefixes that basically say this PVD applies to all those addresses so kind of to make sure that there\u0027s no miss configuration there then you can add the properties like in for instance I put the a characteristic for the first up so something let\u0027s say between your VDSL router and the dis llama indicating the maximum throughput that you can achieve and so on other example below I\u0027m all about the whether it is a captive portal or garden and so on and so on pretty flexible here the OSB area is basically if you support the PVD you can ask an application or everyone to basically use one PVD or another of a set of them now with the current status if you receive three PV DS and you are non PVD aware oast you will route process those three arrays and you will basically mix all the information together leading to the classical issue that we have right now so PVD does not serve this problem does it make it worse yeah in fact Archie Telecom so yeah I read the draft and first of all thanks for picking this one up it\u0027s been kicking around a long time rich uncle Addison\u0027s having another guard the case that you\u0027ve got there of it\u0027d be no worse than things at the moment that one\u0027s a problem to me I can\u0027t solve this at the moment and you know here comes another solution that actually doesn\u0027t work in this case I think it would be really good if we could discuss you know possible ways we\u0027ve been talking in some length earlier today with some of the authors there may be some ideas kicking around but I think it would be really good if we could bring this into the scope and tainted evidence for your help on this one we have it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "leads among the authors at least to solution on this oh okay yeah that\u0027s quite good thanks Ted lemon just to amplify slightly on money and just said the situation with this configuration is different than the situation the you would experience in a network that was just advertising without PVE support at all it would just send you one RA with all three prefixes and so the behavior of the host could be expected to be different in that case and that\u0027s really the concern that I have and I think possibly ian has so I\u0027d really like to see a solution that allows us to basically make the PVD options invisible to a host that doesn\u0027t support PVD so the host doesn\u0027t see a change in behavior on the router and only PVD supporting host see something new okay Dana Lorenza cool EDI I am NOT a fan of the idea of having implicit pvd\u0027s be specific to the link-local address because it would break users case use cases that exist today one use case that was used in the ITF network a couple of meetings ago was you had one reader doing you know arrays and and with pios and one we were doing our dns s because the main Rooter didn\u0027t support our DNS s at the time and the behavior and existing host all existing hosts was to take those two and put them in the same PVD and use them consistently and if you have a new PVD aware host and you put them into different pvd\u0027s you\u0027ve got two implicit dvds that have in broken configuration and suddenly you have an implementation problem so you have to decide what to do and so basically your new host on an unmodified network behaves differently okay do you have any suggestions on this yeah don\u0027t put put them all in the same PVD even if they\u0027re coming from different routers with conflicting set of information if they\u0027re conflicting that\u0027s a configuration error today and it\u0027s still a configuration error tomorrow right so the if if you put in conflicting information today then it doesn\u0027t work and it still won\u0027t work tomorrow probably yeah Tommy Polly Apple so as a co-author one thing to respond to Lorenzo I think that\u0027s a good point I think it\u0027s part of this you if you say that if we want them to be distinct then just add your PVD name make it explicit you can do that all the time and so and then if you want to join them explicitly you can put the same name in them and that\u0027s great so I think we probably weaken the implicit one to say that you know this can work if you have one implicitly D that gets the other options it may be full of dragons if you don\u0027t know what you\u0027re doing explicitly so be aware that it has the same problems it has today but essentially we\u0027re giving you a name "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "for the PVD to rationalize it if you so sleepy yet and then to Ted\u0027s point definitely I think this is something that needs to be addressed and I think that\u0027s the main weak point here there have been two general ways of solving this problem that we\u0027ve discussed one which i think is kind of come up more in the past but i think we don\u0027t like as much is going the approach of having kind of containerized PVD options in which I imagine still the the main that can the legacy v4 PVD would probably still want to be a name and all the other are a bits would be exposed on the outside but then you could have other areas essentially just be PVD containers that can work if we need to go that route we can there\u0027s a little bit more ugliness there because then we\u0027re kind of stuck long term with a solution which some things are containerized some are not and it\u0027s essentially a long-term compromise for a short-term problem while we\u0027re dealing with devices that don\u0027t know about this one other option that Eric client I and the runs were discussing earlier was if we can essentially change how on one hand when the router solicitation is sent out if we expressed in a bit that we are PVD aware as a client we could receive unicast our A\u0027s for the extended pvd\u0027s that would not go out to other clients and then on the advertisement side we could essentially define that there is another multicast address that is the other RAS are sent out to all the time and that PVD where clients will listen to both and accept RS from both and treat them completely equally and they don\u0027t really care where they come from but then anyone who is not Peabody aware would only be looking at the traditional multicast address and they would only see the same view that they would see today and so it means that you have a lot of flexibility but then he also can end up having a relatively sane and simple deployment when you know you don\u0027t have legacy clients in the future Ted lemon again so the way the way that we contemplated solving this problem back when there was an if working group was that we would just have PVD options in the our a in the in the prefix there would be sub options of the prefix option and those options could in turn contain some options that had information about which to which name servers to contact if you were going to use the PVD and so you would just put the name server that you want non TVD aware host to use in the outer prefix or in the outer RA and then you would put the specific ones inside of the PVD option the only reason I can think of why that\u0027s bad is if there\u0027s just not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "enough room in the RA for all of this information but are we that space constrained in the RA yeah it teaches busy yeah of course because Eric couldn\u0027t be fragmented so that\u0027s already an issue that\u0027s one issue we see with this which is what we call the Eric on the PVD container that\u0027s nothing roughly the same thing the same concept basically making PVD unaware people ignore the set of information so there is one issue the size we can be limited in the amount of information on the amount of errors PVD you put there and pretty much like Tommy said we are basically making a solution ugly for a short term I mean solution is on the table right so to be discussed I had to respond the earlier comment I think one of the main things are an improvement I think that we one of the main things that we\u0027ve improved over the thinking that we had in the myth time frame was that the ACP over TLS has never need length limits and it can be like much more easily extended right and I hate the container option suffer not only you know from these length comments but also like essentially duplication of information and you know yeah that even like the two multicast group solution isn\u0027t really super elegant but it does eventually go away it can eventually go away hi pop ended two comments I mean I made I think I made comments on this draft at the mic in the last unary meeting and I sent comments during love the adoption call so I I still object to the use of putting URLs in here to load this stuff I think it has very poor F H airing properties you know because it\u0027s way going way out of the just the internet layer up to you know to the application layer and I\u0027m not convinced that you really need to have that much data that you can\u0027t put in you know datagrams and the other issue is I raised on in my comments during the adoption call is there\u0027s Appendix B with a bunch of stuff about billing there\u0027s nothing in the rest of the document that uses the word billing I and I think it should be removed I don\u0027t think we should be doing a billing protocol without talking about it and it seems like this is just I well I don\u0027t understand why it\u0027s there at all so I\u0027m surprised to see it in the new draft okay to be honest on this one there\u0027s a mistake of night okay remove it so you will take it out I will take it away that\u0027s no problem again please take off night and now when we disagree I think we need to agree that we disagree on the fetching of HTTP and some other the application layer because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:35",
    "text": "that\u0027s really important to store a lot of information there that you cannot put in the single array yeah well I\u0027m again I I think it\u0027s a bad idea I think this will be very fragile and it can have all kinds of odd behavior you know I mean this is information in a router advertisement you know or an ende and it seems then having to go and get stuff from the web is is like that makes my head hurt so I I think you should really think hard about finding another way of doing it maybe it\u0027s not nice but it\u0027s efficient no I think it isn\u0027t actually Lorenza clearly to that point I am we thought about this at some length and we thought about many options and one thing that was very clear in the mind of the implementers of this and this has been true for months years and since he said has been kicking around is that the initial configuration in the RA must be atomic and must be sufficient to give you everything that you need to do networking right this stuff is a complete disjoint set of configure information which is ocular config information and it is at best metadata about networking if not like entirely separate config information it will never be a goal and maybe we should just write this in very big block letters and that it will never be a goal that you are not provisioned until you do this you must have full connectivity well you know things like captive portal accepted that aren\u0027t on your control but you must have full connectivity atomically upon receiving this RA right you have to have network layer connectivity and this is the rest this is all metadata right which you might not even ever want to care about fetching so and so I think we do understand your concerns but but we felt that you know if we had this hard separation between the two it did make sense to use these other mechanisms other than the fact that we already do HTTP for provisioning in the sense that the captopril check has already HTTP but like you know but but there is even conceptually solid I think distinction between the two on the same topic oh I was about to say about the same thing the idea is that everything that is going to influence the networking stack of a host is going to be in the RA we are not going to put anything in the in the additional information that it\u0027s going to modify the IP stack the way the hosts pH on the IP layer the additional information is really intended for applications behavior the weight application work the way applications decide on which DVD to use this kind of stuff and by the way PF Pizza what we said is pretty true we have an implementation running on Linux everything which is related inside the array is within the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:35",
    "text": "kernel everything which is into the additional JSON files is including user space so you smell all that was just talked about is this well described in the draft the specific the clarification that renzo just did creamish Lac Pierre is not in the draft yet this is in the mind of the author as well okay well you can then understand my confusion absolutely Eric not Mike just to clarify that a bit more so so if this URL that you get is not reachable the host will continue to operate as if it had never received a piece of course but so as I was discussing with Eric just now Tommy Holly the presence of the PVD alone is a key piece of information to the fat market yes it helps you bucket eyes it like it is still import information that is stored in the system at the interface management level and yes it helps merge information across things the if you do not if you\u0027re not able to fetch this information you should not behave any differently than you would had right so like yeah so it should be perfectly acceptable for that fetch to fail it is that is intended for information like captive portals which is truly application layer information because the other option is that stuff like captive portals in order to get away from terrible redirect students alike that ends up putting much more into the DHCP and RA space because as we want to extend that or extend the capabilities there we\u0027re going to start stuffing more into the IP layer and we don\u0027t believe that\u0027s appropriate to be there we believe it\u0027s more appropriate to kind of stuff on to some PVD extra information so we can get it away from the precious space in our DSP and our ice simultaneously ID and a place where you can get to find your go to find more information about that ID some additional text in the drafts would be useful I have another area where I think additional text is is required so HTTP it\u0027s not clear exactly what what this provides you other than confidentiality they basically the equivalent of anonymous diffie-hellman and it talks about doing some additional checks but I don\u0027t know whether the the entity on the host that\u0027s retrieving this stuff has a list of routiers that it\u0027s gonna validate against or not whether justice also entered is sufficient I can tell from the text that\u0027s in there so it needs before I start but but the higher debate is what problem is it solving is it just that a confidentiality of this thing and and or or is it something else I cannot take an informational text regarding the notifications of the server I mean in our mind is a full-auto altercation pretty much like you do on the browser so you\u0027re gonna have the list of 100 routiers okay that\u0027s correct "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:35",
    "text": "the same as the browser right so basically so yeah that should be written down yes yeah absolutely thank you so I just the reason I got up is because I was reading the slide I\u0027m thinking of myself Wow what\u0027s the trust model for all that information that you\u0027ve got on that slide it\u0027s not clear to me that you have a trust model and that\u0027s something it needs to be addressed in this document I don\u0027t know exactly what the trust model should be but I tend to get a little paranoid about this stuff like you know who can claim the name through Hotel a Poli Wi-Fi you know I mean pretty much like your SSID right you see it\u0027s this idea which is right and that\u0027s a huge problem yeah that this one you can say whatever you want but the point is well it depends upon the user the user interface which if you have multiple PVD to select will you show the fully qualified domain name that ends for instance like Verizon calm or cisco.com or whatever so and you know it\u0027s been in fact reverse SSL so you can trust somehow right okay do you display the localize name there well this is exactly what I\u0027m getting at why you can safely show that that\u0027s been validated is the is the domain name the the localized name has not hesitated this great so that\u0027s not to say that the localized name can\u0027t in principle be validated but if you want to put a localized name there I\u0027m arguing that you should figure out a way to validate it tell me Polly Apple I yeah I very much agree with your point here the names like certain attributes like the captive portal API URL is useful because it essentially is a way to communicate from the network that you know this is what it says you can do if that doesn\u0027t pan out because that server isn\u0027t really there well then you know that there\u0027s something wrong yes exactly right so I do believe that most of the keys and stuff in here I think from the key document do need to be stripped out I think as we\u0027ve been discussing there probably should be some like I own a registry for how we register keys and we leave it much more agnostic for now putting stuff in the UI very problematic if that\u0027s not represented to the user what this really means right where it comes from one use case for something like a name or identifier we were discussing with Michael earlier about you know situations in which you say I have my generic internet PVD and I have a video streaming PVD some attribute like a name in there would allow not a user but an application but say that\u0027s written for that network to say you know find me a PVD that claims it has this name you know it could be lying but at least I will try it and you know do my own authentication with the actual end application server and it is a hint for which one to use so I believe use cases like that are a little bit safer or more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:36",
    "text": "useful so we should look at that it could just be identifiers - yeah a surname is fine yeah suresh krisshnan like ad hat off I think one of the things that could like kind of handle all of this questions raised is like a scoping statement which like try to say like what the document doesn\u0027t address like because there\u0027s like bunch of things that it doesn\u0027t address and I think it\u0027s by design right like because if you add like this container stuff like you know PVD aware non Aware\u0027s stuff and you had the origin authentication for this thing you end up with the same myth draft right like that we had so I think if you have a clear scoping statement saying like these are the known failure modes for this other things like non goals for this document I think that would set the tone for the rest of the document so people don\u0027t expect to find something further John and then like you know a working group can make the decision on whether that\u0027s the right set of things to do but I think that clearly specifies like you know what\u0027s getting covered thank you for the advice indeed so come back on the document so what we changed since the adoption by the working group we I rewrote the INR consideration because you are asking for new by discovery option they\u0027re the PVD ID inside which is a fully qualified domain name at the very beginning it was encoded internally as a DNS name so kind of compress if you know what I mean then we make it plain ASCII and then based on some comment from the working group we moving back to a DNS format okay so I think we are there the DNS zones is mainly for the the walled garden approach has been added back based on multiple commander receive we rewrote the privacy section and if I come back on this and rather than being informational we are aiming a standard drug rent agree why do we have DNS zones and and DNS SSL like why like what am i what am I supposed to do if I get both I mean via necessarily so obviously for all your DNS requests this one says in a walled garden approach if you use this PVD you will be reaching all the O\u0027s ending my go zones which is slightly different basically we we may want to change this okay and of course they are inside and outside and blah blah but the point right now is to be able to specify to scope the world garden PVD hmm we could do it by addresses maybe as well that sounds like it can get controversial okay okay we can talk about it and everything\u0027s open right mm and just to expand slightly on the controversy that might come up there if you specify that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:36",
    "text": "you that a particular PVD supports a particular zone isn\u0027t that doesn\u0027t that imply that that so that\u0027s the PVD to use for that zone sure so that\u0027s a really great way to capture all the traffic for that zone okay I hope one other comment the security considerations section has two sentences and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s adequate of course this is that\u0027s a revision zero zero all right so with plenty of time yes I just looked at it but there are other security sentences in the tank by the way so it\u0027s not as I said one big change compared to the previous one at least for the existing implementation is that we changed the way we write the fully qualified domain name which is a PVD ID was ASCII now it\u0027s following RFC 1035 we do it more complex methods okay there was a huge amount of decision of privacy in Prague so we try to address it one thing to note is that when we fetch the JSON file over FTP over TLS it\u0027s typically this server will be with venue a Miss rative domain it will not traverse the wild Internet and you will get anyway information by the oath when the oath is accessing your DNS server or is accessing your radio server directly because you is authenticated or your DHCP server is using DHCP because you are within one immensity of domain so we make it clear in the text that is with typically within an initiative domain and we all know that all operating systems whether it\u0027s laptop base or mobile base they try to discover whether there is open Internet access or whether there is a captive portal so they use a variation of the scheme which is described here they go and open a connection to someone on site and see whether what they receive is correct yes or no and then they detect whether it is a captive portal yes or no so what is the more private is it to go over the cell to one server which is within demonstrative domain of the network operator or going to a third party that you don\u0027t really know including maybe the employee of Lorenzo yeah Lawrence Kealey so I was able to read section 6 during the time you\u0027re talking about it which I guess is a bad sign but so what I didn\u0027t get out of section 6 was what\u0027s the threat model in the sense that what is what is the privacy concern here is it for is it this let\u0027s say user is running a version of an operating system "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "that understands its specification is that the privacy concern here or is there another concern what\u0027s the threat model what is the privacy leak that because the document really doesn\u0027t say if you have an answer then you give it now otherwise you should really put it in the draft again if you equipment so it was a thing bob and trishia team up that express the privacy concern and what I get from them and I think it\u0027s a fair is the fact that is soon the SSL server which is there we know that one a pv6 address is active and that\u0027s it well everybody knows that right exactly the point so the it\u0027s not hard for the network to know what is on the network right I mean it got a dad probe I mean that that no I\u0027m pretty sure if Christian was here he would be a more convincing do we have it in the minutes I mean last time I talked with him and not to give him after the track making it was exactly this threat now you\u0027re right I need to put that we need to describe the threat against privacy in the draft that\u0027s for sure and see what they seem to remember that what he said was more convincing I can\u0027t remember it though but okay I guess we just need it there and the last point which is not on the slide we advise to use one temporary address to fetch this SSL and then do not use any more disappear six address that\u0027s an easy fix when you get Travis extension would you mind splitting up now easily because that\u0027s implementation status so nothing will change compared to Prague except that the accattone we have opened the a chippies that also serving now array and there is one router vendor and you can get the name I guess which is implemented this version of the PVD as in the 2d array next step so that\u0027s the one of course base already on the feedback will receive today we need to get some applause coming out of the sky find a solution in this piece with the group regarding this multiple array what we do with the legacy host and something I would really really love because we have multiple implementations running right now and we are currently using the code which is 2 5 3 which is experimental and now again somebody from the University in Japan came can I get the code to run in my place ok so we meet and I would love to get the consensus within the working group to get through Jana earn every discovery option for the PVD ID on this point actually going back to your previous slide where it says Linux implementation has the kernel patch been sent for review upstream it\u0027s such that I\u0027m not upstream it yet please send a rep stream ASAP because our lead time is measured "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:37",
    "text": "in years and do bear in mind going back to the point that you have on the next slide that the Linux kernel uses a version of by default uses a truncation of sha-1 256 that is that is invalid they implemented draft whatever and the RFC changed the final value and we still can\u0027t fix it because the backwards compatibility upstream is rejecting patches too to take the RSC value so if this can it well that\u0027s backwards compatibility so I agree that it would be nice to have you know if we end up having two values one temporary and one final I think it would be get it to have a value that we can use for experimentation that is this is not going to change this is sooner rather than later is what I meant to say sorry and when I say recommend for future it\u0027s an easy way to get while we are still a draft to get a value especially funded by discovery option so that\u0027s within this RSC 4860 one but mark Townsley I think I\u0027m just gonna echo a bit of what Lorenzo said so in but it should be obvious that in order for us to upstream it we need a real code I don\u0027t think they take it with 253 and this section 1348 61 is perfect for our case I think so what what we need is a consensus call from a working group that says yep you can have a code and then Suresh can go off and ask Ayane for that and and then it\u0027ll happen and then yes we will move forward as fast as linus torvalds will allow us allow us thank you that\u0027s rich yeah so so I kind of explained the procedure to Eric a little bit so the request needs to come from the working group so once like they are ready to make the request like the chairs can do like a consensus call and ship off a request to me and I\u0027ll do it like as fast as Marc can get leaner so also do something thank you in advance so Nexus Tull just from the chairs what\u0027s the plan for responding to getting a number and asking the working group no well I think we we\u0027re pretty late now so how about taking it to the lists well you\u0027ll have to confirm it on the list anyway but I sort of wonder if this seems to me like it\u0027s a long way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "from being done and so you know I worry a little doing the allocation too soon might create a whole nother set of problems especially if there starts to be running code that gets deployed and then we\u0027re going to need another one later and so I\u0027m not sure seems like a little fast to me okay it\u0027s not like this just appeared it\u0027s been it\u0027s been going on for years there\u0027s multiple hackathons there\u0027s running code there\u0027s multiple implementations there are implementations popping up from people that we are not directly in contact with all we\u0027re talking about here is a code if we completely screw up we can get another code but I I don\u0027t think that\u0027s gonna happen I\u0027d like to hear from you know maybe Lorenzo has an opinion on that the process exists for a reason we don\u0027t have to get full-on RFC two to get a code here I\u0027m not nearly as worried as as you seem to be and I\u0027ve been in deep in this for several years now is there a process for calling back the code no they are see I just read it it says like one when the options base is 85% full we\u0027re gonna look at all the reclaimer ones to see which ones are not in use anymore and I can imagine how somebody with you know how concerns like well you know we\u0027ve you know that\u0027s you know not gonna happen in next few decades maybe so what do we have you know are we gonna have multiple implementations that don\u0027t talk to each other or have like incompatible packet formats or something right I think if there were a process to reclaim the code or to call it back then you know that would make it easier for us to actually devote a temporary code look if we could can we have a code with an expiry date I don\u0027t know you may not like it but there is a process for reclaiming those are the Ayana you know considerations that were agreed upon okay then Suresh and then I\u0027m cutting the discussion yeah just explaining something Suresh again so explaining what early allocation the early allocations expire they do like it\u0027s not in that place over there but like iesg keeps getting the early allocation like report every sometime and I think like I think it\u0027s a year or something where the explorations just go away like if it\u0027s just an early allocation which doesn\u0027t follow up it just goes away Thanks so tell okay thanks my name is Thomas raha and this draft is about packet timestamp formats its joint work with your info Binney and Al Morten next please Thanks okay so the intended "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:38",
    "text": "audience of this draft is network protocol designers and the idea is that there are actually two purposes one is the draft defines a set of recommended time stamp formats relatively small set of recommended time stamp format which should typically be enough for anyone who needs to integrate a time stamp into a packet in most cases for the specific cases where none of these recommended time stand formats fit what you need in your new time protocol or your new network protocol sorry this draft specifies guidelines of how to define a new time stamp format so the history of this draft it was submitted a few months ago it was originally submitted to the internet area working group in the last ITF meeting we presented it here and also an NTP and based on the suggestion from our ID it was finally submitted to the NTP working group and it was recently adopted by the NTP working group so it was still important for us to give an update here on how it\u0027s progressing so we\u0027re going to talk a few words about the differences between the current version and the previous version and also give a brief overview of what we have in the draft so one thing the draft talks about in the new version beyond the two main goals which I talked about two slides ago is things you need to consider before you define time stamp format or before you decide which time stamp format to use so for example if you need a time stamp you\u0027ll need to think about things like a time stamp resolution the wraparound period the time stamp size number of bit and also coexistence with other protocols for example if you have NTP running on your system it probably makes sense to reuse the same time stamp formatted in Antep II so in the draft we defined three recommended time stamp formats one is based on two actually are based on NTP one is a 64-bit format another is a 32-bit format and there\u0027s also a timestamp format which is based on PDP so one of the things we do in the current draft is we specify some of the existing RFC\u0027s that use time stamps for each of them will show which of the recommended time stamp formats is used in some cases none of the recommended time stamp formats is used and also the draft includes a couple of examples of how you would use recommend the time stamp format when you\u0027re defining a new network protocol so it\u0027s kind of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "cookbook for how to define a network protocol with the timestamp okay so the next steps we\u0027re expecting first of all we\u0027ve had a few comments on a mailing list which we\u0027ll need to address in the next version we plan to do that another aspect which we started working on and still needs to be expanded is creating a control field an optional control field which can be attached to the time step and describes information which is related to that time stamp so that\u0027s something that\u0027s currently we have preliminary outline and we\u0027ll need to expand on that after we do these things we expect to ask for a working group last call and the NTP working group this would be a good time for any comments or questions okay thank you yes this is Alexandra Petrescu I\u0027m it is the first time I see the slide set and I also need to read the document I wonder whether the discussion or the request from you for comments is open for comments related to adding time stamps from other protocols than the ones that you listed that are relevant networking yeah so we\u0027re open to any kind of comments yeah we\u0027ll be happy to hear and if there are more use cases that we haven\u0027t considered we\u0027ll be happy to hear for example the ones from localizations like Galileo or GPS these are some time stamp very important time stamp formats there and the ones from IT Polly like TSA time stamp advertisements these are two things that are very important to me I don\u0027t know whether you want them listed here or okay so it would be great if you could read the rest and send these comments on the mailing list that would be helpful okay but thank you thanks thanks next so next I think we have removed right so Tom are you oh he was there all right I thought I saw his name before yeah so tell me if you yeah he just made it back if you can request presenter yes to shall we go to plan Tom or Vladimir "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:44",
    "text": "otherwise you\u0027re next whoever requests the line will get it okay I\u0027ll take it Thanks no problem so hi guys I\u0027m going to give you an update on our latest work on Sox version 6 so next slide please so I\u0027m gonna give you a quick refresher on what Sox 6 does as compared to version 5 the main thing that we do is wish that we shave our party tees so the client is very optimistic and sends as much information upfront as possible I mean it advertises its supported authentication methods it requests that the proxy openers suck open our connection to a certain server they\u0027re also sent some data and it also tries to authenticate itself it had if it had previously communicated with the proxy it\u0027s also extensible with TCP like options in TLB format and it also has support for TFO so next slide please alright so here you can see how Sox 6 compares to be 5 so NB 5 the client first says what authentication method supports and then the authentication process proceeds and then it makes the request and only after it gets a reply back can it send some data in such B 6 it sends a request that contains your sentation methods whatsoever to connect to and also some initial data afterwards the authentication process proceeds and then it gets operation reply back next slide please I think it\u0027s taking a while for you to taper this lights on okay okay and I\u0027m subsequent that on subsequent requests it can use your RT authentication so that the RTT overhead is basically zero so next slide let me just switch to the next slide so the focus of the latest revision of the draft has been on security I mean achieve Li we\u0027ve chiefly concerned ourselves with protection against replay attacks well first up Sox version 5 lets you do encryption within the protocol we\u0027ve decided to deprecated that and just run stocks over TLS that is the encryption de facto standard in use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:47",
    "text": "today and we should request a new port for from my Anna for that the funny thing about this is that Sox stands for socket secure and then we when we\u0027re gonna run Sox over TLS maybe it\u0027s gonna be called second secure secure I don\u0027t know anyway so TLS 1.3 has support for early data it has no eye overhead in terms of RTT however this early data is prone to replay attacks and since it\u0027s likely to contain a full Sox request and you don\u0027t really need a report wait for a reply from the server in order to send some data so Sox over TLS is now prone to to replay attacks so I mean so we kind of need a mechanism that can ensure item that can show idempotence for requests and in order to do that yeah that\u0027s like this so in order to do that we\u0027re gonna leverage the Sox options so this is for authenticated clients only so authenticated clients can request tokens that they can then spend on on Sox requests a token can only be spent on one request so if if if the proxy sees two requests that try to spend the same token the second one is gonna get discarded so next slide please so this is basically how it works so first the client sends the request to get some authentication reply back and then an operation reply next slide so he\u0027s gonna include it\u0027s gonna include a token request as part of a normal Sox request it doesn\u0027t really have to open a socket anywhere you can just use an OP and send the token request as part of the knob then it gets a window advertisement back which basically tells it what which tokens are usable so nice slide so the token request is pretty state straightforward the the client basically asks for a number of tokens with the server might may or may not grant next slide please and the token advertisement token window advertisement contains two fields a window based on the window size so the window base is basically the force token and the window size is the number of tokens in the window so if we\u0027ve got a base of 10 and a size of five that means that tokens 10 through 14 are usable so next slide please so afterwards the client is free to spend those tokens on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:47",
    "text": "on connect own socks requests so it includes talk and expenditure options as part of its requests and it gets an expenditure reply as part of the operation reply and optionally the server might may include an unsolicited window advertisement so next slide please so the token expenditure option is really straightforward it contains only one field which is the token that the client is trying to use now clients should attempt to use those tokens in order next slide please the token expenditure reply basically contains response code which indicates whether or not the token expenditure was successful in case the token was out of them was not within the window or if it was a duplicate the client will get a will get will get an error code and the Sox operation is going to fail so next slide please now the proxies can shift the token window at will do not have to request keep requesting new windows so whenever whenever a proxy deems it necessary it can increment the windows base by however how much it wants this can usually be done if if the client has spent all of its lower order tokens and the class and the proxy basically shifts the window as though spent tokens and generates new spendable tokens at the end of the window otherwise if the client ends up spending higher-order tokens but there are gaps the proxy can can decide to discard those gaps and shifter when the window passed them anyway so next slide please so this is what we plan to do in the next revisions of the draft we plan to include some options that let the client request certain behavior from the proxy like in case we\u0027re using an HPC what as manager and what scheduler to use we\u0027re also thinking about about adding better reverse proxy support so we would like so as it currently stands you can only you can only accept one incoming connection or socks request we\u0027re thinking about adding some functionality where in the client can just listen on a port and tell the way and instruct the proxy to forward incoming connections to that port next slide please there\u0027s there\u0027s also competing solution it\u0027s called grtt tcp converters that it\u0027s done by olivier there are some there\u0027s some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:48",
    "text": "similarity between his proposal and mine so they\u0027re similar in that there\u0027s all the control data is at the beginning of the connection afterwards data flows verbatim via the proxy however there are some important differences between our two proposals so socks5 is purely a layer 5 protocol so all control data flows over TCP or or over whatever reliable it as XI byte stream you want to use it can be run over TLS TFO is not actually required for it to work but of course it\u0027s highly beneficial it gives us the RTT overhead and as long as a metal box doesn\u0027t killed TCP the middle said metal box cannot kill Sox either and that\u0027s about it for me I\u0027ll I\u0027m happy to take questions thank you very much any questions for Vlad maybe a couple ok great so we\u0027re a bit late so I\u0027m cutting the line after those two gentlemen Ben Schwartz I\u0027ve been the bane of this draft yeah thank you very much the the window system that the token window system looks a little bit over engineered for the purpose of just rejecting duplicate TFO requests is it really intended for something else like like access utilization limits because if it\u0027s just for rejecting duplicates then it seems like the window system is unnecessary we could just have an incrementing identifier in a fixed size space well it\u0027s just for rejecting duplicates either because it they were sent over TFO and the client resent them or or because or chiefly because of replay attacks so what else do you have in mind in particular it seems like we could just essentially fix a 32-bit window just to clear the window to be the entire space and that would be sufficient well the client is free to spend those tokens out of order and if you make the window too big then the server has to hold a really large bitmap in memory for each client it seems to me that we can require them to be spent in order well you can\u0027t I mean the client can make multiple concurrent requests so even if the client is benevolent and tries to spend them in order they might get processed out of order okay that that\u0027s very helpful thank you it still seems to me in that case that it should be sufficient to associate a nonce with each essentially in process every active command a very open socket or something like that or there might be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:48",
    "text": "some way with so anyway I think we might be able to find another design for this but it\u0027s helpful to understand more about why you chose this design Thanks yeah sure we can take it to the mailing list thanks Stuart sure sure Apple can you go to the last slide in your presentation this was the last 1% that you want I cheated I looked on the website I\u0027m sorry I said I cheated I looked on the ITF website just very quick minor point I don\u0027t know what was in the draft as well but on the last line there you mean if X is less than or equal to Y if you think about the case where x equals y y minus x is 0 which is certainly less than 2 billion so you mean less than or equal yes sure thank you very much thank you thanks a lot Tom are you around can you hear me yes go ahead okay hi my name is Tom Hobart I\u0027m going to give an update on identifiers locator addressing the next slide please so a quick introduction I guess this is review I have presented this before so ila is an identifier locator split protocol we anticipate use cases in data center and mobile some of the important properties so this is address translation not encapsulation there\u0027s no processing beyond the IP header so we don\u0027t use extension headers for instance for encapsulation there is a checksum neutral mapping that will preserve the layer for checksum and this can run either on n host or in network next slide please this might be something take so close ok so recently we updated the draft we changed the name to reflect that we think this is more appropriate for interior than nvm 3 so previously this had been presented in a 10 vo 3 also some of the changes in the latest draft we clarified the intent identifier format as being optional so in ila we had actually had to find four bits of the identifier to be formatting and that checksum bit those are actually optional we made that very clear that that\u0027s an optional format that can be used per site or per deployment we added a non local address identifier type this is going to allow us to basically encode any any sort of address into and map it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:49",
    "text": "into an identifier we add a description of mobility use case and relaxed really relaxing requirement for the exact 64 64 split so there are going to be used cases where we want the identifier locator to maybe have different sizes than 64 bits and explain one of those use cases and a couple slides next slide please we\u0027re a bit late so if you don\u0027t mind beating them okay so what more is needed so Suresh a couple of ietf Segoe asked this with relation to ila and a potential working group item and we\u0027ve clarified the use cases and provide a reference architecture the addressing models in privacy also we clarified for the control plane we\u0027re looking more that this is kind of a database more than anything we\u0027ve added running code and we have some deployment so next slide please so the next slide is some use cases so this is something we presented previously in illustrate the various use cases next slide please so this is a reference to apology the important thing here is that we consider this to be an ila domain at the border or ila routers they will do translations for packets coming into the domain and those are translated and directed to ila nodes via the underlay Network and in Iowa nodes reverse translation is done next slide please so when we look at the data center very similar there\u0027s Gateway host and now instead of having nodes generic knows those are vans or tasks next slide please and similar in mobile network topology very similar architecture so we start gate ways now we have v9 bees and the point of these last three slides really are to illustrate that there\u0027s a common thread here amongst the difference use cases and we believe that it will share a lot of code and protocol next slide please so we have three addressing modes now singleton addresses this is kind of where the point we started from this is the canonical identifier locator split where 64 bits is used as the identifier we have added slash 64 bit assignment this is for instance used heavily in the mobile use case where devices are getting / 64 s I haven\u0027t documented this in the draft yet but we\u0027d have a solution for this and as I mentioned we added the non local address which allows mapping arbitrary 128 bits into an identifier in order to transit a network for say a completely remote address next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:51",
    "text": "slide please so there\u0027s three people on the line we\u0027re cutting the line no thanks so the control plane as I mentioned we\u0027re really looking at this as a key value store and as such it\u0027s a database and security act calls replication pub/sub many of the things in a database become important and there\u0027s some very various examples of how this might be implemented x-lite please so running code we continue to support the code in Linux there were some patches recently that fixed a couple of things we have an aisle a router implementation in xgp and we did one in DPD k3 high 80s ago the hackathon we will be open sourcing reference control daemon soon that as I mentioned implemented database sort of control plane for real deployment Peter can probably fill you in more on this but Facebook is using ila as virtual replay virtual addresses to replace VIP injection and for mobility we are currently working on a proof-of-concept basically has an alternative to GTP user plane and mobile networks next slide so I guess my question again is what would what do we need to get a working group item is it appropriate in area at this point that\u0027s all I have okay thanks thanks Tom so today\u0027s share so one of the questions he asks is is one off or not I still don\u0027t have an answer for that right like is this a one-off document or is there gonna be like a bunch of documents to follow so the answer to this question would be different based on answer you give me right and so that is the first thing I I kind of asked for right so is this gonna be like Walden\u0027s self-contained document and nothing more to follow or is it gonna be like you know 20 other documents to follow this right like and Dan said this is taking up in the interior would be different in both the case I see so my my feel right now is I prefer to be one document if possible I think it\u0027s simple enough and since there\u0027s no actual change on the wire protocol I think that\u0027s a benefit the control plane is obviously the obviously the interesting question whether or not we actually need a formal aisle a specific control plane or if it\u0027s sufficient to say that say for instance we do we do have the database control plane or use Sdn or open or some something like that right like and that requires scoping right so like one of the things we talked about probably couple of meetings ago in office hours was that if you want to run this at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:54",
    "text": "internet scale you need different things right then if you do it in a controlled omein so like if you scope the document properly I guess you can probably get away from like doing anything larger than like just today the base we talked about or they are using a same controller but there\u0027s no Sdn controller that works and like you know different administrative domains right really so that\u0027s kind of very hand wavy to say like an Essene controller will do it if like you\u0027re talking about internet scale deployment of this so I like the thing I was suggesting was like either like you know go scope it like to the things like the deployments in areas you want to do it or like you know do the whole work right like that\u0027s pretty much the option right and and I think you know going back to the reference to architecture those really are scope to be within a single domain it is possible to use this inter domain but I think the initial deployments the initial design is really going to be around bringing this and bringing this up in a network more or less as a replacement for encapsulation or segment routing or equivalent to segment routing or what have you so really would be constrained within a good main for the most part ok perfect thanks Shree underlay Cisco so I have one question on the mapping table so tom where do you keep the mapping table is it centralized or do you distribute the mapping table to all ila routers that if you look at the reference I guess you can do it offline there\u0027s ila routers and ila nodes ila routers the intent is it would contain the database they might be shorted to handle the load and replicate it but they would contain the full database and then we would allow kind of caching nodes to contain working set of translations and those might be used within the network and the routers might be used at the edge of the network where packets coming in so that the routers would have higher load so the answer is a routers would contain the whole table and we do have other devices that can contain a cache of entries so since so thanks so since you said though it\u0027s applicable for mobile environments I\u0027m wondering like you know if I take an operator like you know hundred million subscribers is it reasonable to expect that there\u0027s a database of hundred 100 million entries at every router is that is that a practical no it would be it would be you have to be shorted so the database like any other large database we can\u0027t fit the whole thing into one device so you\u0027d want to short it and the shorting would be based on the what we call this her address so the server address would hit different routers that contain a different part of the shard or different shard of the data before database okay maybe a last point like I think it\u0027s not a standalone you know I think so - Suresh as question it appears like a you know number of extensions it\u0027s not a just a point you know one simple specification right you need a mechanism "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:54",
    "text": "for populating the does mapping entries you need a lot more infrastructure for this entire thing to work at a high level I eat appears like a nitrate solution it\u0027s fine I I can understand that but you need lot more for the entire system to work you need the many other things in place well I agree with that but I kind of liking it IP and routers router routing protocols can be developed independently of IP which is the data plane protocol so I guess maybe that\u0027s a poor excuse but that\u0027s somewhat what I found rationalizing it maybe that\u0027s not right all right thank you a couple things firstly it does really sound a bit of hand wavy to say well you know we\u0027re gonna shard it and you can chart it you can share the database but if the nodes that are doing inline forwarding have to afford at line speed and you want to have a fishing port or utilization on network you can\u0027t just shard the database arbitrarily because you\u0027ll end up with a lot of capacity loss I think and so basically that goes back to suresh\u0027s point is this it seems kind of hand wavy so you would want to you know have a clearer deployments Ament i think the other thing the other question is and I really have to ask you this question because it you said does not run down on draft how do you do mobility with 64 is when you have a hundred million 64 it\u0027s like how do you even do that it seems to me that there\u0027s not enough bits in the IP address so the plan there and I think this also was mentioned in il NP basically what you do is you encode into the locator and index also and the index refers to a locator specific table that resolves to the prefix so it\u0027s the locator plus some index which is in the upper 64 bits that actually indicates the prefix but that has to go to the locator because the table specific so I figured you probably asked that question I need to write it out but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s probably a viable solution but as you\u0027ve always point out um we can\u0027t touch the low-order 64 bits in that case it\u0027s the interface identifier not an ila identifier I think you do you get a lot better you\u0027d have a lot better chance of getting consensus if you explained these scenarios a little bit better well we need to so that one is we need to flesh out but I think it\u0027s pretty clear that without a slash 64 solution this would be hard to to sell everywhere sorry the line was clubbed before just a correction we\u0027re out of time so take it to the list please thank you thanks Tom Daniel hi good afternoon Daniel King appreciate that effectively we\u0027ve run out of time now so I\u0027ll spend 60 seconds just highlighting a piece of work this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:54",
    "text": "is architectural considerations for low latency communication across the internet there may be a sense of deja vu you know this topic kind of came up about five years ago in a sock with the workshop essentially we\u0027re now at a point where we want to look at some of the emerging 5g use cases and applications and requirements that are coming out of various European projects and start investigating what tools architecture capabilities the ITF and other organizations have for solving quite a broad range of critical requirements now clearly the use cases are many this particular document takes a number of these low latency use cases essentially three and tries to expand specifically on bandwidth endpoints QoS determinism capabilities and look at sort of considerations for how these might be deployed and operated across public Internet so of course you could mitigate sort of latency issues with dedicated links and maybe sort of lower layer traffic engineering technologies but you know as mentioned in the title we want to see if these are actually sort of feasible across public internet so if you could look at the draft you know with something like input from the working group of course this topic is is much broader it spans multiple working groups multiple protocol mechanisms interfaces maybe there\u0027s some kind of template definition that\u0027s required for application to network interaction there may be extensions required to existing QoS mechanisms so our our plan is at some point next year to have a workshop either through sort of the IETF iltf or external are co-located with one of the academic events thanks a lot thank you any quick question before we go down we\u0027re really a quick question do make a distinction between just low latency and ensuring that low latency yeah so you know that there\u0027s the guaranteed delivery our packets for application specific environments remote surgeries kind of an interesting example where actually latency is actually critical or important but actually delivery of every packet is more important so it really depends on on the specific use case are you interested in latency purely from the end-to-end perspective or breaking it down into the various places like data center access yeah yeah exactly and so there\u0027s kind of a macro aspect of the Internet service and there are mechanisms that we can use to measure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:55",
    "text": "latency but it\u0027s just as important to look at the micro aspects of latency whether it\u0027s link segment interface maybe even switch fabric and and it\u0027s not just about setting up and reserving this sort of relation C or latency bounds but it\u0027s also measuring and what tools do we have available there that\u0027s those are open issues as well things in your name sorry Paul Condon to lack networks Thanks all right so thank you very much thanks Dino and that\u0027s it [Music] "
  }
]