[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "do not so hello to people in the room actually there's nobody in the room oh there are the corners oh there we go oh there we go [Laughter] somebody jumped up to him i'm thinking i know ulrich's around because he was in uh yeah he was in dns op so yeah there were a bunch of people in dns op it was it was kind of cool yeah and and for us here is so bright and early um okay uh anyway i'm letting myself get distracted here i got to get to um yeah do the uh i know that there are more people coming ulrich has said that he's going to join and uh but they might be stuck with lunch because lunch is only an hour now so yeah well it's one o'clock so jim shall i shall i open the meeting then and sure yeah you do the um the upload of the presentation yes i'm getting it i'm typing in the title right now oh sorry there in a moment alex um um the mobile app doesn't show the session for whatever reason"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "anyway or maybe it's just me on the agenda it's there yeah but on the mobile app it's not there so maybe the schedule and uh oh well don't know if meat echo is listening is that something they can help with okay um you should check the meeting materials uh uh antoine and make sure that you now see the data dictionary slides or do we have to ask meat echo to reload again of course we have to you have to reload them from there there now and now see so they are there now and now we only have to wait when we do the next presentation to see if they're there but okay since we're already two minutes over time let's open the meeting this is the registration protocol extensions working group my name is anton vaswen and on the screen you have your co-chair jim galvin it's the 22nd of march today which is a special day for me i won't go further i turn 55 today um i'm sorry antoine i have to jump in i knew there was i you know i wasn't catching on i'm sorry you would do the introduction right that's right i have to do the introduction we have four minutes here we're not we're not over time yet not over time yet but it is antoine's birthday today this is a very special day for him so uh you know it's a shame that you can't be in vienna and go out and celebrate in style yeah yeah too bad i'll be at the next one right yes yes we'll definitely uh do our part then oh look we got some more people coming in the room isn't that lovely yes okay so it's yeah well they probably want to skip the note well but they're still uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "[Music] they should read it and they should adhere to it i think everybody has read the note well everything you say here in the meeting room on the mailing list or in the corridors um is subject to the idf notewell so read it well and of course we one of the things as well is the idf code of conduct guidelines which i present on the screen now which basically means you know treat college with respect um be aware that um we're all here uh mostly for the single goal of contributing ongoing work to the group in the itf for the best solution for the whole internet and not you in particular um and be aware of that and treat your your your colleagues with the same respect as you wanted to treat you then that is the welcome introduction usually we say another word and that is the way that we do document management which means that we expect people to read and react to documents on the mailing list um everybody that has once written a document will be happy to to to see contributions there we also have the process within this working group that once a document is adopted that we request to have a document shepard right from the start of document adoption and not at the end when when we're going into the working group last call um so if you submit a document for adopting by this working group we kindly request you to search for a document shepard for your document which is not the document author or any of the chairs of ads and for the people that want to volunteer being a document shepard it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "a very good opportunity to learn everything about the processes of the itf and uh and get to know the especially the process of how a document is going along in the in the publication process so that was the welcome and introduction the notewell document management i just told you about um we have a few documents that are published since the last idf one of them these is the um secure authorization of information for transfer rfc 9154 as you can see on the screen and the other one is original registry maintenance notification also for epp rfc 9167 congratulations everyone with everybody with again publishing new documents so that's off our plate and then we still have some working projects work in progress documents first is finding the authority the registration data for the rdap service this is as you all know an elevation to uh standards um for one of the the other documents um it's very close to being published it's still in the rc at the queue i didn't see any messages today but expect this one to be published within i think the next the next days or week then another one is the use of internationalized email addresses in the ebb protocol so internationalized email addresses this document has passed working group last call but we are during working group last call this document changed a few times and we assume that this is for uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "uh change anything substantial which is why we uh we want the uh document shepard to state that on the mailing list and then do his write-up before we can submit this to the isg and i see james gould in the queue there james go ahead do you want to say something can you unmute [Music] or should i so james is in the queue but he's having some audio issues i think i can hear him in the background it's very very faint though well if you can type your comment in the chat room jim we'll uh we'll read it out for you he's gonna add a comment in the chat room i see it over here okay um i don't see jody in the participants um list i actually wanted to ask him a question you know how far he is with um yeah um so um james said in the indie chat you know nothing material was changed to the draft we know this i mean jim and i have read the draft too we think that there is not no that there are no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "material changes made during last call but since we jim and i need to be impartial here the process is that the document shepard is supposed to state that as an independent reviewer and basically we're waiting for that and then when jody has done that he should also do the write-up as the document shepherd but since jody is not in the room jim and i will continue to harass him on that and to make sure that that he's doing that but so if anybody is aware that if anybody's asking why this is taking so long uh at the moment it's it's on the document shepard if it takes much longer we might want to look for another document shepard but let's let's first give jody a fair chance to do this then we change use uh jim and you'll do it from uh from here on for the existing work because i think the first one that's on the list is the simple registration reporting and you are the one to state something about the progress of this document uh yes thanks um let me um first just put a chair on for a moment and and remind us um we we uh in the beginning we were talking about notes um we we should have asked for people for for um the uh the agendas pre-loaded in in the notes uh the note-taking uh thing over here we really would just like for uh folks to add a bullet whenever you hear uh an interesting point um and just put that in the in in the notes so uh we're just gonna depend on the recording in the chat room here to keep us honest and the note-taking facility uh is is just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "for capturing actions and decision points so if anyone could feel free to add that about their documents or any question that would be great and the note docs looks empty he says um note-taking tool i'm looking in it now and um now why is it the agenda's not there it was there the last time i looked honest no i'm at the hedge talk too rick and i'm not seeing it in there well we'll get back to that let me just deal with my document oh okay or did you just stick that there maybe somebody else stuck it there took a moment okay i'm sorry yeah simple registration reporting very quickly uh we believe this document is ready for working group last call and we're going to be asking for that on the mailing list after the ietf year it's going to get added to a list of uh several documents here are on the cusp of working group last call so we're ready to move that along as soon as uh other folks are ready there really hasn't been much discussion um uh with the document and i see tim with your hand up do you wanna try again jim and still not hearing you jim if you're talking okay well you know back to you uh uh antoine about registration reporting um we'll let jim keep trying um or if you put a comment in the chat we'll deal with it there sorry jim not sure what's going on yeah james audio seems to be very low i don't know why there is could be a local a local issue you said back to me jim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "but you're unmute um okay next one is the reverse search capabilities and that is mario mario alfredo i think i saw you in there i saw you earlier this week do you hear me yeah we can hear you mario okay yeah yes yes since uh last meeting i added the dota t add-up web client to the implementation status section and following the up the feedback from jazdick and tom i extended the query model to represent a reverse reverse search based on any relationship between the rdap object classes and i changed the the role path segment into a query parameter now i think that the document is is in good shape and is substantially ready for to go into the working group last call it includes two dependencies from two draft drafts but they are informative references okay very well so conclusion for this talking you think it's ready for working good glass call we saw your um request for that and um we will follow up on that on the mailing list after this yeah itf meeting uh tom i volunteered to to share the document so uh i think that you agree yeah thomas is the document shepard we we already discussed this with him that this document has a quite long reputation especially for the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "privacy considerations section um he's all aware of that so we'll be expected to have this in working group last call in the next weeks then the third document uh federated authentication using open id is scots in the room or in the meeting scott do you want to make comments for this one uh sure antoine um i'm not in the room i'm remote yep yeah so so this document changed extensively since we last met it shifted from a token management approach that put that burden on the client to a token management approach that puts the burden on the server and in doing that i think it made the document much more acceptable you know to people who are familiar with open id oauth and how it's commonly implemented in web services i've got a few more minor changes to make based on feedback received from the last update but once i make those changes i think we've got a document that's in really really really good shape the only other thing i'd like to ask people to look at is the list of query purposes that are currently there uh those are part of a proposal for an iana registry of query purposes but if we agree that those purposes you know cover the use cases we're familiar with i think this document will too will be ready for working group last call with one more update that's a really good news scott because this this has been on our plate for quite some time as well of course does anybody have any questions to scott about the changes or about the status of the document if not then we will move on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "to the next one and that is js contact and that's again mario do you want to say anything about this one as well yes uh i just made only editorial changes since last meeting so i correct um i update the references due to the transfer of the js contact document from jmf to collect but nothing else so i don't know if now it is the right moment right time to ask for the working group last call because the guest contact documents are expected to a schedule to to go into working group law school next july so i don't think that there will be a important changes in the in the next until july in the in this document so i would suggest to go into working group last call and uh i know that there is obviously a a deep er sun to depend in two dependencies from the js contact documents it seems to me normal so i don't know what is the the the right procedure in this case i never i never experienced before so i i trust in your experience to to to do what is the the the right track to follow yeah yeah thank you mario yeah for for folks that didn't didn't get this yet there are two normative references in this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "two internet drafts which of course are not allowed and so we are actually waiting for the uh the two other drafts which are not in this working group but they're another working group on js contact to be published together with this document in one go uh and therefore we have normative references to rfcs and not to to to internet droughts we already discussed this with with murray um our area director um he says it won't be a problem they will just queue up and so we can do the working group last call but be expected not to to have them published until the other two documents are to be published as well and i see murray in room murray i don't know if you want to add anything to that no no uh it's okay for me now for murray i said murray not married i'm sorry i have nothing that sounds right okay so yes that's the status of the pro of the uh of of this document uh it means that we can go into working group last call with this one but it is in no hurry at all since we have to do this before july when the other two documents uh will also uh be uh be published in the other working group uh so i propose that since we have already three requests for working group last calls we can do this one after the other three um if you're okay with that mario and because it will it will be linking lingering around anyway no problem at all yeah okay thank you mario then the next document direct fields in the rdap response and i don't see [Music] jodie nor roger in the meeting if i'm correct i have to scroll down the whole no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "they're both not here um so let's deal with this one uh further on the mailing list um i don't th this one is not in working group last school yet if i'm correct uh there's still work in progress here to be done so that's that let's uh let's let's just keep that there then the next one is the registration data dictionary i don't know jim did you find the slides already so if you can upgrade upload the slides for this one and i will give the floor i think to heather or steve steve i see you in the queue yeah there they are yes heather will speak first and then me okay if jim can put the slides or yeah i think i can request to share them as well if i hit the right button yeah they're in the meeting materials did you want to do it heather you can go ahead yeah but then we have to stop sharing slides first right let's see yes yeah okay so i stopped sharing slides okay and let's see if i hit this button and this button did that share slides not yet let's try again but um heather you and i are gonna switch off maybe if jim could run the slides we'd both be in better shape um true it's not it's not sharing it's opening them up for me but it's not sharing them so yeah and they're not in the preloaded slides yet normally before the meeting we have pre-loaded slides but since these were not in the data tracker yet at the beginning of the meeting they're not in the pre-loaded slides as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "well let's see if i can do something here yeah can we ask um meet echo to uh to to reload the pre-loaded slides and i want to give rick a chance to go back to the previous document and say a word while we're waiting for that uh he wrote a comment in uh in the chat room which is kind of important i'd like to give him a chance to uh to speak that permissions can you hear me okay yeah okay very good thanks uh so yeah uh rick wilhelm pr just for the uh wearing my rdap working group chair hat just letting everybody know what i said in the in the uh in the chat there that um the icann rdap working group is working on modifying the i can rdap profile so that rdap responses are allowed to use js contact and are not required to use j card uh this will probably make a lot of folks in the room that are not big fans of jay card pretty happy so we're allowing flexibility there in the response mechanism and so we're kind of hoping that that would it's not required that they use js contact but it certainly allows that optionality and so we'll we're hoping that we're going to start to see some variety and implementations and an evolution in the uh in js content implementation i'm probably going to learn some things in that and um so uh happy to take any questions about that but and and also a lot of uh shout out to mario on that thanks okay okay thank you rick and i now have uh thank you meat echo i now have the the data dictionary slides so over to you guys outstanding um so we're we're going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "assume that folks have had a chance to read the data dictionary um jim could you go to the next slide please so when last we left our humble explorers um uh since ietf 112 the draft was accepted as a working group item thank you all very much for that uh for my own purposes of keeping track of feedback i did go ahead and create a github repository not suggesting changing working group process on how you normally handle drafts this was as much for me personally as anybody else but it's there if anyone would like to follow along if they would find that easier um what changes we've made as as a result of the feedback that came for the call to make this a working group item we updated the abstract one of the big points was we really don't want to set policy with this draft so we tried to make that clear we updated several of the definitions to remove the normative reference to the epp spec the general data element specification we made a note that local interpretation is expected for any any legal issues and this this in no small part touched on questions of you know legal natural person what not what is what is the local definition because the data dictionary isn't trying to set that there were several areas that could inform policy just by how they were defined and for all of those we put the definition to to be determined we also did to be determined for um any elements that that had questions about what format are you choosing so for like date or name or address that's those are always sticky to to define well so those are also tbd and given the previous changes we moved several items from um normative references to just informative"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "references because they're they're no longer fundamentally required next slide please there are a couple things that we were able to just close in terms of uh requests that people made for as part of the call for adoption one was to change the title from the dns registration uh dns data dictionary to the registration data dictionary so that's been done and the removal of the references to epp so those two things at least i created issues for them solely so i could close them which felt really good i love checking things off the list i the github shouldn't be private i will double check that as soon as i hand off to steve who gets the next slides thank you very much heather um let me just emphasize a pointer to this work arose out of work that heather and i and others have been involved in where we realized that we were making references or making lists of data elements and that there are other places in the ecosystem where there are references to the equivalent data elements and that there was no common place to refer to those so this is sort of a an emergent uh aspect of the work and the intent which i want to emphasize very strongly is that this is not intended to influence um any of the substantive developments going on in these areas it's simply an attempt to gather the terminology that's used and provided as an available source of commonality across the system i know that's a question that keeps coming up as to whether or not we're trying to change things that have been developed or influence existing things so we're just trying to put something on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "table that would be a useful building block for either existing or future systems and of course we'll see how that goes so um uh here's some of the comments that came back um and and the first one i think i've just spoken to that this documents various terms but not expected necessarily to be in complete agreement um that was a suggestion so we'll see how this goes but we've been trying to strip out any of the things that are biased in one direction or another another concern is that definitional nuances might be lost many words very policy loaded can be difficult to capture a standard definition for them that's true and will as i said we're trying hard to be as as neutral and as sort of vanilla as possible in these definitions um a concern about whether there are implied policy decisions um the comment was it says it's merely a dictionary but then it goes on to make very clear policy decisions e.g and section 2.30 and by defining elements the existence of these fields as defined by this data may create foundational bedrock to build an argument to support bi parties as to why in the presence of the definition of fields the information is not being captured well um i'm not sure what more i can say with respect to the first of those things but with respect to the second that's an interesting and in some ways a quite um insightful uh comment that just by putting those definitions in there it provides ammunition for parties who want to argue well it's defined therefore it must be used um no doubt there will be instances of that kind of dialogue but i hope we're making it clear in here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "that um that is a separate and an explicit decision that has to be made by each and every group as to whether they want to use those data elements and one of the things that i think will um uh sort of make that case is that there will be plenty of data elements uh that are defined that simply will not be used it would be strong agreement not to use it in a particular application so i think that would be uh it'll be easy to push back in those situations where um somebody is trying to say well it's there therefore you have to use it and the answer is no it's got to be much stronger than that next slide please jim there we go uh a question about the use of a label formats uh international version uh u label seems to be more inclusive i actually am going to punt um i remember listening to some discussion about that but i realize i don't have the full picture of that there are some others in the room here who might be able to speak to that feel free to speak or chat or whatever and with respect to the second bullet is the goal to describe the semantics of daniel also specified syntax in the last case we need to specify unicode normalization so i would expect that this will be come out in the back and forth that we're going to have as we move forward on all of this nobody's speaking to the a label format issue next slide i think i saw in the queue yeah jim gold had his hand up briefly um but uh i i will also comment that um the issue in in my mind about a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "label versus you label is is just that you probably have to have both because even in the gtld space where you get policies from icann they only apply at the tld level and some limited application at the second level but you can't control anything else down the tree so you know those are just issues so you probably have to have both that's all thank you and um yeah it's james gould but we're trying to see if his audio works can you try again james can you hear me this time yes we can hear something we can hear some something yeah yeah i think kind of yell okay so yeah no i actually want to speak to the second bullet uh not the first one um because i'm a little bit confused of the purpose of this draft because it has a mix of syntax some of the data elements do some of them don't and then if they do have data element syntax definition how do what do we use that for so if we're using these data elements and the protocols they're not they may not match so is the intent to try to normalize the syntax as well in this draft so my recommendation is to remove the syntax and just make them data element definitions as opposed to trying to to mix it in so just want to speak to that one good comment noted i don't think we're going to resolve it on the spot here but uh we'll make a point of having uh some dialogue on the um on the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "all right next slide um suggestion clarifying iana considerations clarify that new data elements will be created for use across the entire domain system as opposed to describing how specific data element is populated for a given domain and i have to add quickly that we're although this arose out of work that we're doing in the domain name system it applies also to data elements for uh address registrations and and potentially for other situations so we need to um uh make that a bit clearer word domain there might uh might seem like it means domain names and i think we'll we'll pull that out a little bit thank you next slide all right uh several next steps i need text oops what happened here yeah sorry jim gold had his hand up and i wonder if he took it down because we changed slides just wanted to be fair quickly sorry about that that's okay did you want to speak to this different issue i want to bring up um so just trying to find the right time to do it thank you oh wrong brother yeah wrong button just a moment been there done that yeah and there you go excellent recovery all right so a handful of next steps obviously we want to uh fill in the tbds um and identify any terms that are missing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "although my strong expectation is that this is a live process that once we put this to bed and and get the registry up and running there will then be additional data items that will get added at some rate won't be it won't be a torrent but uh might be a little trickle but there will there will be ones queued up and there have to be a process assigned to that and most important we need to document shepard we need a volunteer i don't see a whole bunch of hands going up please please please [Music] we need we need somebody who serves the proper role of a document shepard has the right time commitment neutrality and insight well if you don't volunteer we're going to come around and find you and that's it okay thank you steve and yeah what what the documentary's concerns please volunteer indeed and also on the mailing list or or write directly to the document authors or the chairs and uh we can we can make that happen okay any questions i see james in the eq go ahead james uh yeah i have uh two uh items of feedback one is associated with the choice of the data elements um since i'm seeing new elements that i'm unfamiliar with that are tbd and i really don't see a large set of data elements that exist in other rcs related to registration data like the data escrow rfc so it may be worthwhile to review those rfcs and try to pull in data elements that are applicable um a second item and i i believe this also applies this is what i was trying to say for the report uh draft is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "making sure that the data elements follow a consistent naming convention i'm seeing a mix of abbreviations versus bars uppercase versus lowercase um i believe it would be good to formally define uh the the convention and to follow it uh consistently in the draft that's it thank you those are two very very very very effort um it's certainly data elements that are defined in various rfcs we ought to include um there will be other data elements that are coming up in some of the work we're doing and other people's works that will not be familiar to everybody which is at least in part part of the motivation for this but with respect to covering those things that have been used in other documents that's an extremely good suggestion and on your other suggestion of uh using consistent naming and naming convention is is also quite appropriate so thank you for that okay thank you thank you chief gustavo you're next go ahead yeah can you hear me yeah wonderful things so i have two general opponents one is i mean as most of the participants in this group at some point in our careers we have to implement a registry or registration and over time i learned that i mean there are going to be conflicts because the risk is going to be dynamic obviously and then the contracts local law all of these things are also dynamic so i was wondering if that draft should say something like uh if there are some conflicts between definitions between local law contracts or policy and draft and the dictionary itself you need to go on and look for your own"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "like legal advisor for any kind of help i mean i learned over my career uh that when there are conflicts i should try to go and look to the legal advisor of the company to understand what should i do right so it's kind of a suggestion just maybe say there that that is hey guys if you find in conflicts go on and find some kind of legal uh advice or something like that and the second comment is i think that the draft mentions there are 2.1 once the registry is available the definitions could change right so i think this is issues for some kind of versioning so it's a definition change it would be nice to know what was the definition at a certain point in time like at this point in time the decision was this and then on this specific point in time it changed to this other thing because that also could help in case there are some legal whatever things with you know with legal stuff so those are yeah very interesting are you suggesting that the registry should contain the history of the definitions uh even if they've changed over time yes i i think that's that's why what it's suggesting because normally when you go to an register you can see like the current version right that you don't have like a version i mean usually right i don't know if in the general street we have an example of array history with versioning but some kind of version it should be should be there or notes or something that says this change from this to this at this point in time yeah i understand what you're saying i don't have any direct experience with that uh in this context are there people is this come up in other situations where uh an iana registry has revision history"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "as part of the registry surely there is someone who is expert and knows all of that well i i i wanted to make a comment and that is not much i had to opt for a moment but isn't it in the academic world the definition is supposed to be a definition and never changes anywhere in the future that's the definition of a definition well you wouldn't want it to change very often i see somebody at the queue in the room by the way but you have to register a new echo first before you can speak otherwise i cannot open the tube right um jim you're in the queue as well making a comment about this yeah um you know i i um i think you know in my mind as i think about this uh for this document um i don't know the answer specifically to what ayanna does i'm not aware personally of any history being maintained and i am a registry but i wouldn't consider myself an expert there's just way too much going on there so that's a question that we could certainly ask if we think it's useful what does occur to me though is that um there was a question earlier and i'm sorry i i forget who asked the question oh michelle is here um and she's saying in the chat room that there are examples of versioning within ayanna registries not many but she recalls a few she'll have to find some examples for us she's offering to do that which is very kind so thank you michelle for that but the other thing that occurs to me is um there's a question earlier steve i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "sorry i forget who asked the question uh but a a comment about uh whether or not uh there's any concern about um you know contracts and regulations and laws that might impact what a uh an element looks like and there was a related question about should we care more about the semantics or the syntax of the element seems to me this fits into the same category maybe it's appropriate to take a little bit of a step back here and just think about where we're trying to go with this document i shouldn't say we uh at the working group you know you where you want to go with this document and um uh and and um uh what you want to do there i i don't know if that's that's that's a proper thing to do um so i i just leave the question anyway thanks yeah thank you well um [Music] the devil's always in the details uh general attitude here is that we're not trying to um solve conflicts uh so much as provide common terminology where common terminology is sensible and then if there are uh issues about how it gets used or what it means or something that those get pushed up a level into the proper venues but not this one um and this this is intended to sit underneath if you will uh any debates about uh policy related things or legal issues but inevitably i can i can envision situations where the mere fact of trying to make the separation between what is commonly understood and aware of the local interpretations could lead to some interesting things for example and i'm just making this up as i go here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "pretty much um that if we ask um uh if we have there was a reference to a data element that defines whether or not the um the registration is for a legal person or for a natural person the uh a question that an attorney might ask is where is the jurisdiction for that for that uh decision that is uh legal versus natural in which jurisdiction and so one that might force the addition of yet another data element or some way of adding that to the uh to the dictionary in which case i would say this exercise turns out to be useful in bringing subtle things to the surface that are otherwise implicit but that's downstream a bit and i have to interrupt you here a bit steve because we're getting a little bit short on time we have three more people in the queue and we have one minute for them so go ahead if you can make it quick hello can you hear me yep perfect this is just following up on the the topic of this historical information or or on ayana registries one i guess not quite exactly and and in a registry but the idn repository the repository of item tables uses some form of tracking of historical versions considering that archived id and tables are also available as published by ayanna maybe that's one approach that can be seen as a one example okay next jonathan okay do you have any quick remark"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "me yeah perfect uh thank you so i have to put on my my hat as uh representing registrars uh inside the icann world despite my personal opinions about this i think is a good idea um there are some concerns about some of the fields being collected or how they're defined for the registrar information and uh the the hope was uh one that registrars um there's a lot of variation in what information may or may not be collected at registrars based upon their business model uh and the presence of fields um may beg the question among those who are data collectors as to why something maybe is or is not there among those who might request data that is where they're seeking to get all the data they possibly can and i think there's some some time and thought needs to be put into what what fields maybe should or shouldn't be there and and i'm just that's a collection of feedback from among registrars and again i'm i'm stating that out of responsibility despite maybe my personal feelings on that thank you yeah thank you jordan and just dip you have a comment go ahead and then steve can perhaps give a closing remark uh hi this is jasdeep singh erin so one suggestion um this is for steve and heather this is primarily right now sounds dnr centric but if you have rar side so one suggestion would be that the starting point could be this is just an input if you look at rdap that is one common protocol between dnrs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "and rars and it defines data structures pretty well covering the processes for both types of registries and of course epp then specializes that from the provisioning angle further so one suggestion would be that to help capture the right set of uh data elements that could be one of the good starting points so just wanted to suggest that especially thank you justin um steve one closing remark five seconds thank you and we need a document shepard yeah okay thank you then we will move on with the agenda and we have one more presentation which is new work uh jim can you bring up the slides and it's mario who's going to present something about epp over http yeah but i i don't know if it would be better to leave the time for james presentation james comment about up uh so are you saying don't do your presentation but have james's comment no jim james said you go ahead mario okay you can make the comment on the mailing list as well of course okay okay okay no problem uh this is a presentation about the recent document we have submitted as a joint proposal by dot it and dot pl a few introductory words about this document it doesn't aim to be a revolutionary proposal just aims to define the rules for implementing app over http"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "next slide please uh what what could be the motivation of implementing fbp over http http is as is loosely coupled with the network so you don't have to deal with all the low level details typical of tcp programming it provides a well-known current server communication model that is supported by largely by all the platform software platform available it it's simple to its simplicity reduces the development time and it must be noted that most of the burden of handling the connection this the http session and the request and the responses is normally done by a an application server the with regard to this gap the speed gap between http and tcp http has become faster version vibration and now we can say that that gap is not so large as in the past about load balancing we can say that load balancing can be more easily implemented at uh lawyer 7 that at lawyer 4 because most of the load balancer uh our software are instead load balancer at lawyer 4 are more dependent on the hardware and as correctly pointed out by gavin in his"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "feedback on the my little list if the migration to cloud is the future migrating an http server to cloud requirements effort then at ntcp server next slide please so how app messages are exchanged in this proposal the client must use the http post method tuition epp command and the server receiving a request returned the ppms the pp response in the response body setting the content length either to indicate the byte length of the entity body no message information uh must be issued through any other part of of the request or the response so there is a clear distinction between the application level and the transport level next slide please a session are implemented the epp sessions are implemented by using the mechanism described in rfc 6265 server receiving an epp logging must you common must use this set cookie responsibility to send a token also known as the session id uh that the client will will use to to in the future request in within the scope of the fpp session the name of the cookie attribute is not relevant and it depends on the implementation this is an example of a set cookie attribute setting the the session id and the use and the client server using this the session id"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "in the in the subsequent request next slide please the session uh uh ended by the client uh by submitting the the the app logout command a self-receiving mpp logout command must end the ppp session invalidating the the session after having issued the response obviously a pc ep session that are considered the inactive for more than several that they find a period that can be ended by the server itself uh next slide please uh the command does not is the only common that can be issued outside in a pc an epp session together we obviously with the people login to start the session in such a case the service must return the greatest response without starting a session for example it can no no cookie at all or it can return a inspired cookie obviously a client may issue the the low command within an ep session for example to keep it alive next slide please just to emphasize the clear distinction between the application lawyer and the transport lawyer there there is no mix between the return codes provided by http and epp so each http error codes must be used for signaling only http request failure and app error codes must be used for signaling app common failure so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "this means that the http retro code 200 is used for both successful and successful epp requests next slide please we have one more minute mario okay we have two implementation they are stable they are live implementation they are they have been working for many years in more than a decade next slide please and two words about the security consideration http over tls must be used to protect sensitive information while in transit services are recommended to implement additional measure to verify the client there are some measures suggested in the slide service may require clients to present valid x dot 509 digital certificate issued by recognized certification authority next slide please the final and there are some other possible additional security measures to protect to prevent the session id to be uh from being ejected and a service are finally recommended to control the number of simultaneous open ep session and http connection to mitigate the risk of resource starvation there is two other slides but i would like to stop here because they are about a lot balancing and the and this it is described in in an appendix of the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "okay thank you mario we are waiting the final note sorry is that uh the authors would like to would like to ask the working group to consider this document for that option and then please take that to the mailing list mario of course okay yes yes so this is always from the speech registry i have a super minor command i i i think the document should be called epp over https and then to hd to https i want to say that the document should reference the uh for the security considerations from the security working group about which tls version to use and which tls ciphers and and so on because that i think is not an expertise of our working group and lastly i have the reference http 3 in the document but http 3 allows you to basically have several sessions inside the same connection and something of that mapping would at least been talked about in the document okay thank you uh gavin yeah thank you kevin brown centronic um all right already said what i said wanted to say about http 3's streams but i did want to note in security considerations um it makes uh the the the draft makes um ip based access control a mutual tls optional which is a regression from the the current specification for a bpp over tcp or opp over tls where they are mandatory i think i've no particular objection to that but i think it needs to be noted in the draft that the the the term there is a difference there in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "the security profile of the two different transport protocols okay thank you gavin and then final remark from jim jin go ahead thank you antoine the far too many gems in this working group my name is jim reed i'm just violently opposed to cookies in any possible shape or form i just don't like them and i don't understand why you would need to complicate the session for an app with having cookies in there and deal with the issues of stale cookies and refreshing cookies and all that stuff why not just to limit that what benefit do we get for an epp session that has cookies i don't see the need for it can i answer yes you can now firstly i would like to answer to rick we decided the title of the document uh that is compliant to the the name of uh rfc uh 57 34 so [Music] the name of that document is app over tcp no not over tls so in the same way i i i i entitled the the document app over uh app over http and on and not or app over https but in the document is stated that tls is required so why we use the cookies because we adopt a standardized method to map a an applicative an application an application session to a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "an http session this is the the the the standard the way we adopt we have been adopting for many years so there is no way there's no problem in refreshing the cookies because it's something that uh libraries supporting http requests and responses and sessions are accustomed to to to manage so you don't need to make to to implement nothing party nothing special because uh you you need only for for the client for example to enable cookies management and that's it so uh i i think that this is a a a simple way to to to manage a session for for for an fpp client in the sake of time we really have to close here um in the form of cookies you know just because people are standardly using it doesn't mean that it's good to use them so we may take that discussion on the mailing list jim because we're really running out of time where 10 minutes later okay thanks mario yeah um and with that we come to the end of our agenda if there are no any other business this is a last call for any other business if we can do it in one minute and i don't see any hands and with that i think we ran a little bit over time that was not expected but it was a good session uh see you all on the mailing list and let's continue the discussions there and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "with that i adjourned this meeting thank you all and thank you for who was taking the minute jim um there are a variety of people rick and i brick wilhelm and i were mostly putting notes in the in the chat in the note-taking okay we're taking the minutes and let's see each other on the mailing list and hopefully soon next time i think that will be philadelphia right philadelphia yep okay bye bye"
  }
]
