[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:45",
    "text": "um hello do you hear me yes i do hi christian oh hello i was a bit worried that my audio setup um switched to the completely wrong um wrong component i think this is not good i hear you too by the way kirsten was around but i think he left just one second before you joined yeah i had connectivity issues um okay so um we don't have any we don't have um particular items on the agenda but i still didn't want to cancel the meeting in full because it um we might get use the opportunity to um get a bit of better bearings of what we want to do during these interims and if it's just um going through like like a meta agenda for the um for the larger time i think that could be valuable um but as i understand the big items during this um during during this interim series uh will be the topic of seaboard 2.0 and with carsten just having left um that might be that might be a bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "hard to get bearings on we do have the topic of seaboard pact and time tag but time to see what pact um is in my understanding largely depending on reviews and time tag is waiting for whatever comes out of sedate so um do you have does any of you have um items that we should keep track of hello carson good to have you back sorry um cast another part um are you around now i heard mark and michael speaking but i don't hear you if so if so how about this ah much better thank you yeah i'm not sitting at my usual desk so yeah configure the computer here okay um i'd like to briefly go through what we want to achieve before the next itf and how we what we what we do need to do with the current documents and whether there is anything new coming up that we should uh keep track of during the interim right um on the topic so the the documents that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "we have currently being worked on are time tagged and tagged and packed is time tag still pending on on the stage work i understand it is um yeah we probably could uh finish what needs to be done to the time tag document why it's today it is in its uh finishing um touches the the main issue in today right now is that actually rfc 3339 has some interoperability problems that we probably need to address by actually doing an update to 339 which we were explicitly chartered not to do uh so that that is interesting um but the the parts that actually migrate over to the time tank should be stable by now so we could be doing this does it make sense to push um time tag to the to the point where it will be misrep on the date now or um is there any other point where you would prefer to hold this um i would expect today to be fast enough that that this is pretty much moot um so i think we we can just uh push those two documents together okay um great i mean the the time track is registered people are using it uh so it's not like we are in a particular rush yeah um then uh seaboard pact is as i understand waiting for reviews and implementations great one one of one of the promised both reviews and implementations being mine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "as i'm aware of um yes okay [Music] um yeah i'll i'll i'll try to keep that on the on the upper half of of the of the list of pending items and the big thing that does not have a dot and document yet is the topic of cdi 2.0 is this something where we should invite particular groups of people to join interims is this something where we just um need input on the mailing list how do we get how do we get this rolling because my understanding end of last year was that it would somehow be squished into the into the end of 2021 um it's okay that this didn't happen but um i'd like to get a better grasp on on what we need for this to progress yeah i think we still need some some implementation effort to to validate the the rough ideas that are in in the freezer document and in the slide where that that has been generated since that and so yeah the the next step is to to actually get this implemented learn something from the implementation and then adjust the the specifications um and yeah the the idea of course is to have this done before the uh internet draft deadline for 115. would would you mind i'm updating the freezer in between then because given that it has expired it's lost a lot of visibility yeah you probably need to do that agree and if and if if some of that is only in slide where i think it would be within what is suitable to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "reference these slides even in the in the draft as by the way there is additional work going on here and here and there yeah it might also be possible to just copy over the slide right now that would that might even be yes yep okay so action point for me is to to update and resubmit the freezer document outside of these three is there anything coming up that i've lost track of well i must admit i'm i'm really unprepared because i only noticed some 40 minutes ago that we were going to have this meeting [Music] yeah i know the the the riot summit was a really really really important event this week so maybe we should have cancelled things earlier um but yeah so um i think it's likely that that uh things will uh come up uh in one way or the other we still have the the whole issue of map like data structures that we haven't had a really urgent use case that has forced us to complete that work but i would expect that to happen at some point and of course the the cdda work is uh it's not yet entirely clear what will be in the next version and and so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "that also might spawn some additional activities beyond the the more document the main document and michael writes that he volunteered to prepare stuff for cyber using other working groups and he still thinks it's important but he's on a train now and he would like to brainstorm this i'm available for brainstorming not today not really for me either uh same same here um i'd be i'd be happy to join in that um maybe just send out maybe just send something out um to whomever you consider suitable or the list and and let's talk about that whenever that's ready hmm okay um any other business um marco ira chien not from my side uh what was that going to put this tonight uh this morning you know it's already deep night in china i wanted to know the topic you are discussing given that given that we did not have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "concrete topic the only thing that was left on the agenda was the regular item of which documents do we have and what do we have to do to repress them um so there was not there was no single concrete item that wasn't listed okay thank you okay any any further comments questions for otherwise i would join this meeting and see you in two weeks yeah i was just i like to remind people that i'm not going to be present in the meeting in two weeks from now um so i would expect to to have something to say about cds in the meeting four weeks from now okay so then we'll take care to um decide on whether or not we'll have the meeting in two weeks in your time before that um if if there's anything on the agenda or not okay thanks everyone see you in two or four weeks bye uh what uh what will be the next meeting after after tonight um there is one scheduled for in two weeks um but this will only happen if something is put on the agenda and if not there will be a mail in due time before this that uh informs you that the meeting does not happen and marco also posted the link to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "meetings in the chat just a moment ago okay thank you now thank you see you then thank you bye bye bye bye bye we just wanna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "okay"
  }
]
