[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "pretty loud I feel for everything realizes that is ready to go yeah should we start good morning everyone this is 9 30 first session on Thursday and the first formal work group meeting for snack snack stands for stub Network out of configuration for IPv6 thank you very closely is it better oh yeah it sounds good uh good morning again to first snack work group meeting by now you are familiar with the ITF policies especially pay attention to understanding IPR and code of conduct guidelines you are required to wear masks all the time that's a good sign everybody is wearing masks and and you're familiar with meat Echo as soon as it comes back foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:20",
    "text": "foreign yeah it's stuck USB connector for uh for internet of Internet okay you ready okay let me uh I'm still struggling with the idea yeah so we were on um meet Echo usability slide you guys are familiar with it please make sure you are uh in the queue before you come to the mic and also this is a signing tool for blue sheets so definitely sign in next slide please here's our agenda this set of slides followed by um first presentation from Ted on stud Networks second one uh Pascal's prefix registration and we will have plenty of time to talk about next steps and these two documents so I encourage we will do most of the questions related to the document as the presentations go along and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "then any general question for the work group we can delay it to later on that's next slide so this is the first snack meeting for those who haven't followed the progress from uh buff to today's meeting and on mailing list uh this work group will work on connecting sub networks to infrastructure networks focusing on the mechanisms for addressability discoverability and reachability we have GitHub already as uh setup where you can do issue tracking but we intend to use mailing lists for most of the discussions we have two milestones in mind focusing on the basic functionality of stub network connectivity and then we will look into some extended services so touch you're ready to go next foreign okay uh first of all thank you to our ad and to the chairs for making this happen this has been a long time coming uh you cannot hear oh that's a shame that's that usually works poorly because I tend to wave my hand around and then you can't hear me so let's not do that okay so um we've you know we've had a number of discussions about forming the working group um and that was based on you know some ideas that already existed so I've had a document that's been lying around uh I've been trying to uh to figure out how to publish it for a while and so that's that served as the starting point for uh what I hope will be the first document that the working group adopt next slide so uh this document the goal is just the basic stub Network functionality we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "two main items in our Charter one of them is basic functionality so we're not depending on infrastructure support um we're not requiring changes to hosts on infrastructure um and then depending on the target type of stub Network we may require changes on the stub Network um and uh so and the goals for the document are to explain how hosts on infrastructure and stuff can discover each other um and how they can initiate communication with each other and also how uh hosts on the stub Network can initiate communication with hosts on the internet uh we don't particularly certainly in the in the initial document we're not too concerned about allowing internet hosts to establish Communications with stub Network hosts next slide so the original document was actually basically just the whole thing and that meant that it had both the basic use case and the sort of integrated with infrastructure use case but it didn't actually have a lot of detail about integrating with infrastructure so what it had was um you know how we maintain a usable IPv6 prefix on adjacent infrastructure and the idea there is that uh the adjacent infrastructure link may not actually support IPv6 and in order to accomplish what we need to do without doing bridging or network uh address translation we kind of need to use IPv6 so if the adjacent infrastructure doesn't have a prefix we have to provide it um and so there's there's actually in the original document it just basically described how that was done it didn't give a state machine or anything like that um it described how to do SRP registration for the stub Network the Assumption was for Native 2.15.4 network uh we really don't want to use multicast and that actually works well with the stub Network model because we don't want to bridge multicast either um and so so using Service registration protocol which is a dnssd document um gives us the functionality that we need without requiring multicast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "um it talked about using the original document talked about using the advertising proxy to advertise whatever was registered in SRP on infrastructure it didn't talk a whole lot about um any other service Discovery it was mentioned but not in detail and then I talked about uh how to use nas64 to connect to the cloud the motivation there is that we feel like we can assume that at least in the short term a typical infrastructure Network probably has ipv4 service on it um we can't really assume that it has DHCP V6 prefix delegation I know that sounds a little backwards for like you know we really want to use IPv6 as much as possible but that was the conclusion that we came to and so therefore we relied on that 64 for cloud connectivity um and as I said we didn't put in a whole lot of detail about discoverability across non-adjacent infrastructure links uh which is uh something that we will want to do in the in the second document that we that we work on but isn't needed for the first next slide I'm going over this in kind of a lot of details probably some of you guys already know most of the history of this but this is just for those folks that maybe haven't been following this very closely so what I changed in the current document is I removed a bunch of text um so I removed the text about dhcpv6 and I removed all the text about reachability and discoverability from non-adjacent links um both of those require cooperation from the infrastructure um it's not clear that I mean the cooperation from the infrastructure for DHCP V6 is already something that you can get so that's a little bit different than the other cooperation the other cooperation is we actually need the infrastructure to uh to wire the stub Network resolver functionality into or DNS functionality into the into the stub net into the infrastructure Network DNS resolver so that's kind of hard so that that we took out took out of the basic document um and then uh the problem statement document uh was kind of long and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "detailed and talked about a whole bunch of different possible solutions as well as the problem and uh but there was some useful text in the document we it's not clear that we need to publish the problem statement document as a working group document but some of the text was useful and so I took that text out at the urging of of Mark uh and put it in the the uh this document um so the introduction is a little more detailed and hopefully more helpful um and then uh I gotta start on putting in state machines so I did a state machine for the management of the on on link Auto configuration prefix for the infrastructure Network um and the idea here is um it's not so much to prescribe how you should implement it as to give you an idea of what the problems are that you have to deal with and to propose a way of solving it um previously I just kind of said this is what you need to do here's how it ought to behave good luck and uh I got a fair amount of feedback on that that was not enough detail so I added that detail and I think that there's probably similar detail needed for some of the other things that the stub network does but that's not currently in the document next slide so uh what's in the document now we have uh sorry if this is a bit of an eye chart we have maintenance of the usable prefix um so that's the infrastructure IPv6 prefix if there's already an IPv6 prefix on infrastructure we don't have to do anything but if there's not then we need to provide one um and it has to be usable meaning uh like an Android phone has to be able to get an IP address um Android phones don't support DHCP so that means that it can't be a DHCP prefix um that is a DHCP only prefix the a bit has to be set um there's also text that talks about the maintenance of the off stub Network routable prefix which is a very long"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "word for the prefix that's on the stub Network the IPv6 prefix that's used on the stub Network um that prefix needs to be advertised um so uh so there's some text in the document that talks about the fact that you have to advertise that prefix in a router advertisement um I noticed as I was writing the slides that the text doesn't actually say that you have to forward stuff to that network but obviously that's implicit and we need to make that explicit in the document um similarly we have to advertise routes to the adjacent infrastructure on the stub Network um that's a bit architecture dependent for the for the infrastructure Network we assume that we're using Ras for the stub Network we can't really assume that um in sort of the the current use case that we're actually using this for um we don't do ra the thread is an 802.15.4 based mesh Network and it does not do ras it uses a different mechanism for advertising this information so um the general assumption in the document is we you know if you're doing a Wi-Fi stub Network then you're probably going to use Ras but if you're not then you're probably going to do something weird and exciting and different so um then the document talks about uh service advertising and Discovery this is actually there's a bunch of things you have to do to make this work in all cases um so uh there's two problems one is advertising and the other is Discovery and each of those problems is handled differently depending on whether it's on the stub Network or on the infrastructure Network so on the stub Network for advertising uh we use SRP uh so we're assuming that this requires host changes or not host changes we're since it's kind of a green field environment we just assume that we can say the host uses SRP um and uh then for discovery on the stub Network um there's two different types of hosts you might want to discover one of them is hosts that are on the infrastructure Network and the other is hosts that are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "on the stub Network um and actually uh an additional Point here is that there could be more than one stud Network connected to the infra to the same infrastructure Network and we actually really want the stub Network hosts to be able to discover stub Network hosts on other stub networks as well that's not currently talked about in detail in the document I'm not even sure it's talked about at all um but that's a thing we need to be to to be aware of um so uh for discovering infrastructure hosts uh we have a discovery proxy that's another thing that's an RFC that came out of dnssd a couple of years ago and the idea is that you have a DNS resolver or sorry a DNS server an authoritative DNS server that's authoritative for a particular Zone and uh when you ask it a question rather than Consulting its Authority database it goes out and does an mdns query to try and get the answer so um so Discovery proxy sits on the uh on the stub router and uh does queries on the infrastructure Network to satisfy uh queries from stub Network hosts um and then for stub Network hosts It's relatively straightforward it's just an authoritative Zone you do DNS queries to it so so the the SRP updates in authoritative Zone and we just answer questions out of that zone um now for discovery on the adjacent infrastructure um first of all uh we don't need to worry about adjacent infrastructure hosts discovering each other because we assume that that's already working that's not our problem um and so we sort of we leverage that to also make it possible to discover stub Network hosts so instead of doing DNS queries to the authoritative Zone that's populated by SRP we answer questions that we see on mdns using the contents of that zone um that's called an advertising proxy so that's pretty straightforward and then uh the other thing that's covered in the document is the maintenance of the NAT 64 prefix and again that's going to need a state machine and it currently doesn't have one so there's there's further work to do there so that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "the current state of the document next slide uh so we've had some discussion um one of the questions is do we really want to do nat64 can't we do something else um and you know there are a lot of reasons not to do nat64 but the bottom line is we don't really have an alternative um you know unless we just say that the stub Network hosts can't reach the internet and I don't think we're really able to say that so uh so that means that we have to uh we have to provide some way for stub Network hosts to download firmware updates and potentially talk to cloud services uh we can't assume IPv6 connectivity even if the home has IPv6 connectivity it may not support prefix delegation but it almost certainly has ipd4 connectivity of some in some form uh even if that's not 64 right so it could be that you've got an IPv6 only home but the ISP is providing it with Nat 64 so that you can reach hosts on the ipv4 internet that's fine that works we we have to support that as well so in other words we're using nat64 in this case but we're not providing that 64. we're just taking advantage of existing that 64. um so uh now uh we could of course say you know if you don't have the HTTP V6 prefix delegation then tough luck you can't talk to the internet but I don't think we can really say that so unfortunately I don't like I would like to put dhcpv6 prefix delegation into this document but this isn't a reason to do that that's not going to solve this problem so that's the NAT 64 question um I think we concluded that Nat 64 is required but I'm not positive that everybody fully agrees with that yet so somebody disagrees then you know there's the microphone or you can bring it up on the mailing list next slide foreign and then the question the other question"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um it's a bit complicated but you know it's something that could be available and it might be nice to support it uh and wouldn't be that hard to add but it's I don't think it's necessary to satisfy the requirements of the basic document so the main reason that I'd be inclined to include it is just that uh that means that we don't have to modify the state machine in the uh in the cooperating with infrastructure documents so uh the state machine for managing the osnr prefix needs to handle uh dhcpv6 simply um and so if we don't do it in this document then the next document is basically going to just have to modify that state machine to include support for dhcpv6 PD is that a big deal maybe not but that that's basically the reason why I'm a little bit tempted to suggest putting it in the basic document so I'm curious if anybody has any opinions on that let's finish the yeah okay okay great uh so next slide um and then you know remaining work uh I think you know we don't have a state machine for Nat 64. it's possible we need other state machines certainly my implementation has a state machine for managing the presence of the SRP server uh it's not clear that we need that in this document but maybe we do um and uh we're relying on a document that's currently a working group document in the dnssd working group the advertising proxy document um that document is currently under development and in flux so it's a little bit difficult to uh say exactly what we need to pull out of it and whether we need to add something to it but that's the thing that we need to figure out as we're moving forward with this document um another question is we talk about the potential for a partitioned stub Network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "and what we need to do in that case we don't have a whole lot of text about that the reason for that is because partitioning I think is a very application or you know a very uh Network Technology specific thing um so like thread has a way that it does partitioning I don't think we want to be talking about thread in this document so therefore we can't really talk too much about how thread does partitioning so basically the document is just saying like this is the thing that you're going to need to deal with um and the question is how much do we need to say about that so uh it would be good to have people read the document and see if they think they understand how to deal with partitioning based on what's currently said in the document and then uh the text about reachability doesn't say precisely what to do like it doesn't say what to put in the RAS in detail um and I kind of suspect that it needs to say more but you know I'm curious what the working group thinks about that too next slide um and then basically my goal in getting up here and talking to you guys and telling you about this awesome document that I've written is uh that I hope the working group will adopt it um and I hope people will read it it would be great if somebody wanted to do an implementation um I realize that's a big ask but that'll be cool um so and you know like Pascal is is doing some interesting um uh six low pan stuff that I don't really have any visibility to so it'd be interesting I know Pascal does some some application stuff it'd be interesting if Pascal's interested in doing that or anybody I don't want to single you out Pascal just just you know I happen to know that you that you're doing stuff in this space so that's I think that's it next slide turns in the next slide there's no all right we're done so I think it's so we should open the queue and uh while my co-chair is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "getting back on as a chair on the media so how should I just call Michael oh we know I mean okay there's nothing I I need to nothing you need to do okay no sorry um Michael Richardson so um in the pathological case that the ISP is Forward Thinking and has provided the customers with uh V6 only networks with a ISP provided Nat 64. then if we don't have DHCP v6pd then we have a failure right we don't get internet connectivity because we can't not we can't Nat six four ourselves because there's no V4 on the local network because they're using Nat six four right yeah yeah so so forward thinks okay Michael of a successful transition yes we have a failure yes so I think it's worth writing the hcp v6pd into the state machine exactly for that reason even though we don't actually have any requirement that says that CPE routers are supposed to provide it on the Southbound Southbound interface yeah right so it seems that we need to say that I would like to to do that to make them do it but to write it in a document that updates whatever 70 84. yeah I think we should we should do that somewhere right probably not here um but so but in our in this document in our state machine it seems that we should we should do that um and otherwise we have a uh a failure in when we are successful with the ubiquitous deployment of IPv6 then we have a failure yeah right this is a hugely good point and the precise reason why I wanted to bring this to the ietf and not just do it somewhere else because I hadn't even thought of that so thank you so everything as the entity for this uh I was really concerned when I saw nat64"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "coming up because I want to get a very small document implementable right so I don't want to repeat from that as you know but you convinced me right so keep it there but and then Michael you stole my words about DHCP yeah yeah and that's it we want to keep Nat 64 as simple as possible like we could do a really fancy net 64 thing let's not Tim Winters QA Cafe so couple things I I definitely think we should put PD in this document I definitely think we should I'm going to write a draft for PD on the back side of CPS because yeah a lot of them have servers every all of them have servers but they don't turn on PD so they have these giant prefixes that they don't do much with right so I think we probably need to give them some guidance for sure so um I'm definitely going to put something I guess it's V6 Ops because that's where 7084 was done yeah V6 hops are protocol extensions so if you were maybe I don't know it's DHC or I'll talk to people it's either DHC or VISA types we'd have to recharter but I wouldn't object to that I yeah I mean 7084 is in a weird spot it was always in V6 Ops I guess I could live there um the only other thing I thought you should talk more about is the reachability you asked about that I read it and that'll be a problem for people would be my guess okay so I think you're gonna need to put a little more detail I'll send some notes about that right that would be really helpful thank you hi um Bob hinden so I first of all I may not be up to speed on this so that's what I say may be wrong but seems to me for now six four if there's not six maybe this is what Michael said if there's not 64 at the highest you know the ISP Edge then I don't think this should this whatever this is defining shouldn't have to do anything it because if it doesn't exist there then you don't need to do anything right so uh there is one little wrinkle there which is that um when we wrote the threads back and we don't necessarily"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "have to carry this over to this spec when we wrote the thread spec we decided that we really didn't like the idea of breaking DNS SEC and therefore that it was a responsibility of the host that's doing the lookup to do the synthesis and so that had some follow-on implications on like actually the stub Network router it does kind of need to do a little bit of assistance maybe maybe not I mean you could just do the the regular ipv4 and lead on arpa query but we might want to do ras that you know if it's if it's a if it's a Wi-Fi network we might want to do ras in the case of thread we actually put something in the thread network data that says here's your IP here's your NAT 64 prefix well yeah I think the goal should be trying not to have to do anything and make this as simple as possible because more stuff you start adding in here then it seems to me you go down the road of why are we doing this and just make it a real router with real random protocols well so the reason we're doing this is because is because we you know we need to be able to to have a router that works without you having a I manage it exactly but the more complexity you add than sure you start to lose that goal yep thanks uh Lorenzo clearly I um just wanted to say I think we should have uh PD in the in the base back um I understand that there's a lot of stuff in this document already but maybe a better way is to split the document in sort of uh routing and reachability and then service Discovery and like have those be separate bits of the architecture right um because I think it's it's important to have some some proposal for how end-to-end should work and now even if PD doesn't work I I will note that you could probably do Andy proxying if you had uh if you you know if you had a native V6 prefix not sure it's worth it it's very hard to get right yeah it's not very scalable you probably don't want to do that but and yeah and I I don't oppose having"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "that six four here I mean I think yeah if you want to talk to the internet you need a pv4 so yeah okay thanks uh Stuart churcher from Apple um when I put myself into the queue I had a comment and everybody else has basically said the same thing so I'll make this short I think we definitely do want to talk about the HTTP V6 prefix delegation we also want to talk about the state machine of how you discover when it becomes available and what you do and how you discover if it goes away and I'm I'm coming up to say this because I had a discussion with Eric Klein last night where uh he had got a different impression of this work and in his mind he thought we we were building some kind of overlay Network so that you could um connect a bunch of stubs to each other in a private way and he objected to using Ras because that would pollute the caches of the hosts on the ethernet and the Wi-Fi and they might know about the stub Network um and then we had a conversation like that's the point we we want hosts to be able to communicate um uh and the other thing is that we're not trying to our goal is not to build a little private overlay that can't talk to anything else right our ideal situation is I mean in this case it's thread that we're talking about but so I'll use that example it'd be nice if every thread node had a global unicast IPv6 address that it can freely use to communicate with any host using any protocol that runs over ipp6 um the stuff about making up ulas and advertising them in Ras is just a fallback for when the full connectivity is not present right so we definitely want to focus on on the ideal case and then talk about how do we get something that's not quite as good when we don't have everything we want yeah it's a good point I agree okay I think we've got a pretty clear consensus that we should put DHCP in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "yeah I mean I'll leave it to you to to call the consensus but that's my personal impression as an author I agree okay other questions it looks like Julius is in the lunch uh working group adoption will wait until after the uh there's okay so as I can say a few words yeah please go um so I'm not quite as sure as you make it that not six four is unavoidable there are other possibilities so Michael answered quite convincingly why there are good reasons to the net 6-4 but I would still like to mention that there are other possibilities my personal favorite would be to have ipv4 and IPv6 tunnels so Michael answered quite convincingly that this requires a full ipv4 stack on the step node which might be a problem but still I'd like us to consider it and one thing I would also like us to consider is whether we really need full ipv4 connectivity so perhaps I'm going to get yelled at right now but if all we need is HTTP access wouldn't it be enough to have a sox5 proxy on the stub router that sounds a lot more complicated than just having a router I'm not sure is not that complicated I mean yeah you're rewriting some headers but it's it's stateless um you know Nat like having an HTTP socks proxy that's like that's pretty heavy weight okay but the point I'm trying to make here so uh that was mentioned on the list I think I'm not alone and wanting the net six four stuff to be in a separate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "spec so it can be discussed separately of the very good very interesting and very good work that's in the rest of this document and I'm wondering whether you would consider splitting it out into a different document so that this can more easily be discussed separately um I mean I I think you know my experience with with uh you know it's a very common thing for people to say let's split the document up and my experience with that is that quite frequently what winds up happening is we split the document up we write several different documents we wind up with a lot of text that's fairly confusing and ultimately the working group says why don't we just like take all of these documents like why do we have so many separate documents like two years later when everybody's forgotten why we have so many separate documents why don't we put these documents back together and you know just make one document it's a lot simpler so I think we need to have an actual reason to do that and not just that we think that nat64 is less yummy than uh than you know end to end because you know I agree that it's less yummy but you know okay fair enough thank you it's good egg uh yeah just just erect on the previous point was mentioning uh maybe to have ipv4 also on the stop Network notes but yeah of course we have uh also six slope and type networks that we want to connect a stop networks so threat is one example of those yeah so it's not really feasible I would say to you know change those into supporting ipv4 which they don't so that seems not a good path I think but my question was actually on yeah the problem statement uh Ted also mentioned that so I also see sometimes in working group as separate problem statement document we don't seem to have one is there some sort of History of how it uh how it has evolved or that we have the problem stated in your document or so I mean that's that's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "thing that that you know there's always a big debate about whether we need a problem statement document and whether the work group needs to publish it is actually the important part so we did actually write a problem statement document it expired on Monday um and so the question is do we actually need the problem statement document or is the text that I pulled out of the problem statement document and put in this document sufficient I don't know the answer to that if the working group wants to do a problem statement document we're certainly well poised to do one um so mark I'm responsible for it for that uh uh the problem statement was kind of all over the place not necessarily in the bad way it's just that it was comprehensive comprehensive thank you for all the possible cases right and uh um then you know to have and we discussed to have two different deliverables clearly you know as the simple case and the complex case for lack of better terms so it seems to be more appropriate to have a short problem statement for the simple case in the document that described the solution of the simple case that's okay that's the old so there is actually a problem statement document apart from the charter document okay yeah yeah okay thanks yeah they're into quality I think they're I mean you kind of mostly need a problem statement when people don't agree that there's a problem or they don't agree what the problem is I think this is pretty clear um you've got some other Tech and it wants to like plug into something that's already there and talk to the internet I think that's pretty pretty clear and useful problem to solve oh and by the way I mean I mentioned this to to John and some other conversation this is the first thing I've seen that might actually work so congratulations I mean it looks comprehensive it seems to have dotted all the eyes crossed all the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "tears considered the corner cases I'm very hopeful that this will tone is something really good so just wanted to say around them partially in response to Julius but um I think it's important to have like the connectivity bits all be in one Dock and to provide a comprehensive solution which is kind of let's say all mandatory in the sense that um obviously implementations are going to pick and choose the stuff that they build even if it says must but I think it's important that then the onus is on them to explain how their implementation works and interoperates right if someone doesn't want to implement PD because they're like ah this is never going to happen in the real world and it's on them to basically make the solution work in other cases right I think it's important to have one sort of State machine that covers all those cases and only one supported solution where all of these things are part of the protocol and in terms of the size of the document yeah I mean I think if we really do want to split up I would very much advise again splitting up you know things that like could be added on later it's going to result in bad interoperability and like hard to debug instead you know if we want to split something up yeah put put the service Discovery bits somewhere else and put the connectivity bits all in one doc and they will contain Asics for a pde and everything and the RAS and everything right so but I don't think you necessarily have to split it up that's sort of you know just something for the working group to do inside okay looks like we have no more questions all right I will defer to Pascal then yep just so this is Pascal from Cisco and um I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "talking about a document which is being proposed at six flow so it's not a document for this working group but what is being discussed in this document could be a tool in the toolbox that you might decide to use in building your solution certainly it's not a comprehensive solution like a document that you're doing but it's it's one element that could be considered in in the solution so okay there is there is a long long history behind what uh I'm going to present to you uh 15 years ago pretty much we we looked at the concept of iot and tried to figure how we could run uh internet protocols on battery devices and that happened to to be very very challenging because the way we designed protocols at the time was not considered for energy and so we had to look and over the time learn a good number of lessons on how effectively we could turn those protocols into something that could reduce the the energy consumption and the first part the first thing that we found was that the use of broadcast was a killer so we we had to separate the broadcast domain the concept of Links at the layer 2 with what we use for subnetting and IP Links at layer 3. and doing that we found that we are not a need to use routing uh pretty much everywhere in what we're doing but also that we could not choose neighbor Discovery as it was as a reliable mechanism to learn which IP addresses were present in the network so we could inject them in the routing if we don't have a deterministic knowledge of which IP is where then there is no way to inject that either in an iot Network for routing or any VPN or whatever"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "so we we worked on that we we looked at neighbor Discovery and we considered how it could be done in such a way that effectively we could know deterministically which addresses were we we could not choose slack because it relies on broadcast but we still needed address of the configuration so we defined something we could call stateful address to configuration started with RFC 6725 learned a few lessons and ended up with rfch 505 so RFC 8505 is effectively a contract between a host and a router which will guarantee both parties that they agree that this address is usable for the host will not be stolen by somebody else and from the network party perspective that it's not exceeding the capacities of the network and then both hands basically provide some information it's kind of a contract after that we we built a number of other documents like uh rsc8929 which is how you do ND proxy based on that soon as you know data mystically which address is on the network you can do any proxy for it um 8545 is not limited 20 proxies an abstract contract between a host and a router in that contract the host can say Please Mr Roto whatever you're doing for writing please do it for me so that can be a deep proxy in the case of rsc9010 it's going to be a repo it can be a rift I mean it's there is a draft for adpn as well as soon as you have a deterministic knowledge of the IP address now the routing can manipulate it um the other thing that was not possible with with ND was securing this this contract wanted to make sure that if somebody else comes in somewhere and says hey I'm him there was no way you would get the ownership of the address no way to get the address stolen so we are very c8928 which is basically uh associating a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "something derived from a private key basically so some crypto mechanism that will that basically does not in the pki to start with it is uh just a pair of keys that the device will Auto conf at the same time it took off the address but then the infrastructure will associate the two and uh another thing they have to say about those things is there is a abstract registrar which is not the nssd because we design without it but it is it is an abstract registrar which knows exactly which addresses are present on this network and which cryptographic token is associated with those addresses the way this abstract registrar is implemented depends on the use case in the case of evpn it is bgp itself right the whole infrast the whole information is replicated in each in each P basically they know whether the the vxlance tunnels are they know which addresses are at the end of the tunnels they also know the cryptographic tokens associated with those choices in the case of 8929 it's going to be um there is a local knowledge by the proximity of the addresses that it proxies for and overall 6 lbr the server or database is the distribution of all those proxy information across the access point with doing proxy voices if you're doing uh repo we expect definitely some form of central registrar uh to maintain that thing something like list for instance so the registrar itself is very abstract there isn't if if you guys would decide this dnssd it could be the nssd just to say okay they are not imposing anyway it's an abstract thing so the family keeps being extended and the reason why is those protocols that we Define six slope and then the repo extra are effectively"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "deployed in the con in the context of smart grid we managed to build subnets with thousands of nodes and they are effectively deployed and running today and um the the alliance the equivalence of the Wi-Fi Alliance that does that is called wise Sun and why Sun decided that they needed multicast so I try for five we don't need MLD we don't do any form of solicit dot multicast or anything like that we we are all based on uh stateful knowledge of every address in the network so there is no need to pull from solicit non-multicas because there is no uh lookup in the end there is no uh discovery now so still they discovered they needed MLG because they wanted some some degree of uh multicast and for the same reason they didn't want broadcast for uh unique snd basically they could not uh for afford the broadcasts which are coming with MLT either so what we decided to do with this multicast registration thing is to use the exact same mechanism to proactively tell the network hey I'm subscribing to this address as opposed to having the network pool as you design for low power you need to realize that those low power devices are sleeping a lot you have to let the low power devices control when they wake and it's on their demand that something can happen when those devices wake up so for the same reason we register a unicast when the nodes wake up they will register multicast as well and we built this multicast registration since we have this Global Knowledge of every address then the concept of broadcasting for lookup doesn't make any sense either so we have this unicast lookup which is another abstraction on how you go and consult the 6lbr to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "basically tell you which addresses exist and if you have a broadcast domain we can reach them now there is a new member in this family we introduced it to iutfs ago in one of 30 in 113 um and the concept here is when we build those those Ripple very wide Ripple networks we never want them to be Transit Network we didn't never thought repo as a Transit Network thing and it could become such if you have a need like that there are all the mechanisms for it but it was never thought to be a Transit Network because it's an iot in typically an iot Network now it's a layer 3 protocol it's not limited to iot Applications but it's still thought as an iot protocol so we we don't think of it as a Transit doesn't mean we don't have such a thing as a non- uh not so stubby area that that could exist rfcc's 550 was designed with the concept of external rods in mind so there is there is a need for connecting nonsense study areas to repo it was recognized from the start next slide please so the question is would it make sense to do the exact same thing as we did for any cast multicast and unicast addresses but for prefixes as well so as we can advertise in a protocol independent fashion the direct reachability of one prefix are supposed to say hey I have this address if you need to contact this address come to me I'm directly connected to its my address could we now say the same thing for a slash something first usage obviously is I have a slash 64. I'm a host with stack 642 to The Host could I just tell my ripple Network hey I have this slash 64. inject that for me please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "and then it could also be redistribution when you do rotting protocols one thing you're used to is hey you have a prefix behind you which is enrolled by a other protocol you don't really know where that protocol is but you know that you can reach that prefix you're connected to it you don't need rotting with cost and multi-hop you're directly connected to it so guys if you want to reach that prefix pass the packets to me that's pretty much what the air flag does in RFC 8505 so we this is a very very simple graph which basically says hey now it's not just an address it can be a slash something still connected to me I own him I can be your next stop next slide please so this is this is the case of Ripple so we have this RFC 9010 which basically says you've got this guy Mr L doesn't speak repo he doesn't care that the network is repo could be VPN semi interface completely abstract all this says is hey I have this address and there is there a bit if you're doing any form of writing do it for me please because I won't be doing it myself so if it's not the L participates to Ripple it will not set the orbit but if the node doesn't participate to report and hopes that the router will render the service then it will set the orbit write for me please and the result is what you see here when the infrastructure is non-storring is basically the the router C which is the router to which this device is directly connected will basically inject the rod into repo and the packets will flow back um the H5 is acknowledged so the host is certain when the acknowledgment comes back that this address will be processed and inserted into the routing so you is it is certain that it will get the traffic back next slide please so well next slide what we don't have today is the equivalent of nine one of nine zero one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "zero where instead of saying a I have this address you would like to say a I have this prefix okay so again what we are doing is in this interface is completely agnostic to whatever routing is happening up there it's just a matter of saying through a simple ND message I'm this guy I have this slash 64 or I'm directly connected to that network if you have packets for that Network you can trust me pass it to me there won't be a loop because I'm connected to it it's a stub next slide please so um since I followed your work and and I saw that this group was being from I thought hey let's let us at least share to see if there are things we could do in common or if you would be interested in in extending or using what we are doing since we are beginning this work uh it's completely elastic and uh if you would need it and and could use it in your solution and you need some changes on some adaptation uh it's completely easy at this state of time so I basically wrote two sections in this document to show two use cases that seem to to map what you're doing and the first use case is you get a single link here which is a share so so we have what we call a shared link basically very ancient way of doing things well you have more than one prefix on this shared link and you've basically had this this 6lr2 which is a staborator which knows about prefix 2 could be a phone connected to to the home network and P1 in yellow is really the guy connecting to the internet and all you want to do is a 6lr2 on the right to tell P1 a I have this prefix and so what can happen on a network like this is uh once the P1 knows about P2 basically it can install a route to to the prefix prefix and send the traffic and if if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "P2 finds the traffic down same link you can always use a redirect to optimize the path it's if that's desired next slide please so so another case but it really works similarly is is if 6lr2 is actually has two interfaces one thread and one Ethernet or whatever else and in this case um you would basically uh in the same way register the packet and the packets would be routed but that would never be a redirect another thing that could happen is if you have an IP network up there for instance this is an industrial plant you could also decide if the arc bit is set remember this is controlled by the orbit if the orbit is set and there is ospf on the right you could always make it so that the prefix in orange or the prefix uh you see it here I think this is yellow well anyway uh you could decide that they are injected or not this is controlled by the protocol there is this orbit which says rod for me please right so all this is in the specification next slide please and it's a very very stupid uh extension to h505 just the capability to to uh expose a uh prefix Lux basically now there is always there is also the case and this is more for cloud application remember I told you you can redistribute it 505 in anything you like can be VPN there is a big draft which explains how that works by vpm when in a case like this knowing that kubernetes mostly works for V4 V6 is now available but it mostly works for V4 and you know we do all those overlays and games we could also do a flat V6 and if we do a flat V6 basically we provide this usual 96 96 for a given a private Network and we basically replace IP and IP by ipv4 in IPv6 address so we replace a tunnel by an address inside the address and we get pretty much the same result"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "so the way 8505 works today is what we call the arrow option which is placed in DNS so the host sends an NS message to the router say hey I'd like to use this address I have autographed it it comes from the sky you don't have to know how I built it but I would like to be using it and the router says fine it's not a duplicate you can have it if we do it for prefix do we still want to use NS would we like to use arise to carry the arrow should we still call it a row since our romance address registration should it be sros tab uh step prefix or whatever Steps step registration option and we we there are things that we need to discuss just about naming and which message should carry this thing and this message that you see on the right is how is the abstract way of talking to the nssd it's how you go and register and say hey I have this prefix next slide please and then again the prefix can be obtained by you know the httpd or whatever else and that's something we need to discuss uh What Becomes of that that's the nasty question because remember for address we expect Auto configuration so we expl we expect to do Auto conference as usual and then you go to this registrar through your router the router will consult the registrar like your bgp table and look whether this address already in use or not and if it's already in use 8505 comes back with a status say a duplicate you cannot have it could we auto-conf prefix that's part of the name of your working group would you really like to do a tokens like not even PD but really autokov so you you basically expose a slash 48 in your arrays and the guy picks just an arbitrary two bytes and registers that and since we can do it for addresses we could also say Hey you can have it nobody registered it or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "you cannot have it for that reason and you could even have some policies in that abstract registrar which talks about subnetting and subnetting and subnetting I mean everything now is open if it's not already done if the policies are lows yes have it because we always think in terms and that was a discussion in terms of the httpd does it really have to to be a PD can't we Auto calls so so that that's something that the draft does not really discuss but it's completely behind it since we have a model for autoconfig addresses why wouldn't Would we not Auto conf prefixes as well next slide so last but not least compared to when the we have um zero trust built in the protocol the host when it configures and address or a set of addresses it can do a single keeper for multiple addresses it will also Auto confer keeper I'm not talking about a pki I'm just talking about a single key pair um the what happens is since the network keeps track of all the addresses which are registered it can also keep track of a cryptographic token that was Associated to the address the first time it was created so basically the host when it put the constant address and registers it for the first time in the other option there is this fraud ownership verifier field this Rover field which can contain a crypto ID the crypto ID is derived from public key and stuff and there is this usual challenge that is done by the router each time the the host once hosted the router doesn't know already wants to do something about an address it would be challenged for the ownership"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "whether it is for injecting in the routing whether it is for Mobility the node was there it's here for the router it just shows up is it really the owner there will be this Challenge and this challenge basically a pair of nouns and and validating that the the host as the private care associated with that crypto token so compared to CGA this is immensely simple because we don't we are not constrained to having the token fitting to the interface ID and the reason why we are not constrained to that it's because there is the registrar where we can place this Rover which can be any size sure sure okay so compared to CGA which is really really complicated this is just a simple cryptographic operation where the host will prove that it has the token that is associated in the infra with this address so you can form a neutralize first come first serve you on this address the associated with this token now it cannot be stolen and you can do Savvy and you can do all those games oh I think I have a next slide but I don't know what happened Magic yeah so um we're pretty much at the very end anyway don't take that much time right so where we are is this is a very new work it's just for now it's just describes that we already have with 8505 but for prefixes can be used to advertise not to stubby areas in repo or in any protocol I know whether we do auto conf is to be discussed whether we call things arrays and arrays is to be discussed so we we have a lot of slack if I can say well in this protocol and so welcome for comments and if you if you guys would like to to use it and need some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "things in there then it's completely open your next slide next slide yeah so I have a big list of things we could be doing policies articles load balancing when you register to multiple mostly in the case of EDP and if you register to multiple leaves you could influence the weather balancing is done back to you just the way we have wrought our preference we could also have equal cost multipath balancing type of signaling you mean all sorts of stuff we could be doing so I think there are a lot of really useful ideas in here um I would say we shouldn't invent a new protocol that does the exact same thing as an old protocol so I'm not really that interested in um Auto account for stub for uh prefixes because DHCP basically you've got a stateful server either way so yeah why not just use DHCP because it's already defined but um there are a couple things here that I think are particularly interesting um I think you know this is not really a snack thing per se so I don't know that necessary this is necessarily the right place to talk about it but since we're talking about it um uh being able to uh D broadcastify ND on Wi-Fi networks is a very attractive thing our experience with um Wi-Fi networks at this point is that um multicast works just fine as long as the network is is in a good state but um when the network stats get a little ugly then multicast stops working so well uh you wind up having to re-transmit a lot it might take a minute to get an answer instead of you know 200 milliseconds that's really bad yeah so um so doing things to to avoid turning on the multicast functionality"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "in Wi-Fi is is probably something worth talking about maybe not here but um you know I I I'd like to see that happen somewhere um and I think some of the stuff you talked about here is highly applicable to that I mean I think some of it's you know you some of us intended for that but uh so that's good the other thing you talked about that I think is is interesting and potentially useful um although I don't I don't I won't say that I don't care about Ripple because I think we do care about Ripple in some cases but um just addressing Ripple is not General enough the ability right I hope I mentioned that yeah but yeah so but but when I looked at RFC 9010 it's like about Ripple so so um uh so having something that allows us to inject routes is definitely something we'll want for the follow-on document we need to be able to do that somehow I mean one of the ways that we could do that is just by having the the uh assuming that the the DHCP PD will result in the route being injected into the into the routing plane but which means it would do that probably yeah right but but but the point is you know we we in this working group could sort of hand wave about it um because that's how that's how PD generally Works nowadays I mean we and there isn't a spec that says how it works on the other hand it would be kind of nice if there were a spec that says how it works so I think that would be work worth doing um so generally speaking I'm I think there's a lot of good stuff in here I think we need to talk about it a lot more before we actually kind of tease out out the exact thing that we'd want to try and do and also it's not clear to me that this is the place to do it but this is a six flow document yeah it happens regardless but if you have well so it's not clear that six low is the place to do it either though that's the problem that's why it was proposed yeah yeah no no so well so the six low specific stuff that you're working on I think does belong in six low but there's some there's some interesting stuff in here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "that I think we need for more use cases than just six low pan and so that's why I'm saying maybe that's not the place to do it but you know because we I mean to some extent venue shopping is just kind of a silly exercise but it would be good to make sure that we do it in a place where there are more people than just the six low Pan People participating in the conversation we tried to bring that idea to six men the number of times and the person behind you knows that very well because he was the one opposing it okay so um that's basically all I had to say I mean thank you for this presentation I I really appreciate it and and I hope we can get some some value out of it hey yeah Lorenzo clear I'm flattered that you think I have an influence to like you know change standards and Destroy standards and create standards thank you um you know seriously uh so I had like I had a couple of thoughts on this regarding snack specifically one one General thing I just wanted to say before that is that um if you want to do Aro for energy saving purposes that's a good that's a sort of like solid motivation right but the trade-off there is that um if the nodes are sleepy that kind of means you can't change anything on the network because you can't talk to them so on a home network which might potentially change dynamically for example a lot of European isps do flash your numbering once a day sometimes even more often you kind of need the ability to talk to those nodes anyway to update them yes they can do Aro but if their prefix change their address is no longer valid right so that's one thing here like the trade-off is like in that case the energy trade-off is not as clear uh I can answer that before you ask the next question Yeah so basically the oi of iot devices is that they can sleep obviously when they sleep they don't do anything so they are they don't need to know that the prefix has changed they only need to know when they wake up so saving energy is for the first thing allowing going away from multicast and broadcast you need to completely stop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "that game second thing you have to learn when you do low energy is allowing for sleep those devices can slip one percent of that time ten percent of the time or even as much as cats now as long as you sleep yeah yeah that's a lot as long as you sleep you don't need to know there was this flash remembering what you want to see happen is when the the dude wakes up then he gets this array which will tell you hey the pios change and now it will auto-confa new address and register that uh but during the sleep period Then you don't need to use Arrow you can just like drop all packets and when you wake up you refresh well whatever I mean yes yeah so it's a good point that things may have changed during the sleep period and that's yes that's a good point and we need to I mean it's very good for it's very good for a managed Network where you know the prefix doesn't change and you have loads of nodes but I think I guess that's sort of my broader point for a home network I think the trade-offs are a bit different the battery the devices may or may not have more power I think the Sleepy devices in this model are probably gonna really be like more in the 802-15 for cloud right so they are sort of like behind the BR um and in terms of like multicast in General on even Wi-Fi is very harmful to the point that some devices don't listen to all of them because there are too many so if we reduce dramatically the amount of multicast maybe the devices will listen to what's left making them a lot more useful no they won't because the the reason they don't is that it's it's it's expensive for the hardware even to listen for the beacon so it's actually like a more complicated but anyway so one thing I wanted to say is in this specifically for snack um doesn't seem that useful because if you do um if you try to inject a prefix into them into the mesh by a you know Pro whatever it is it is called that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "only going to go to the to the things on a network that speak the protocol and in particular like Legacy hosts won't know this and so what happens is it let's say that you get a prefix from the Gateway and first of all that's going to plumb a route to you anyway so the traffic will like from a traffic from a legacy host will go up and compare pin down you're better off sending an RA on the network uh that with a with an Rio so that the traffic from Legacy host reaches you directly instead of hair it can be done yeah certainly so at that point if you got the prefix of ipde which is what you know Ted says well we already have it then you might as well instead of like doing injection you might as well just send the ra on the on the on the shared segment where it says like hey you can reach me here with an orange which what that's the first drawing right the one where we we share the network you may or may not want to do that it just depends if you want everyone to know about this prefix or if it's a prefix that has a special purpose for which I mean it's it's a choice administrative choice to do it or not but yes it's completely possible no I think like the use case for snack is that you have the stub Network that anyone on the infra Network can reach and so in that case here I think I don't think it has to be globally reachable by anyone for instance if you have a power grid and you want that stuff to for for the power related messages to go out the power lines actually but for anything else to go out we have use cases like that in iot so you you want you don't want everybody to know that prefix only the you're washing machines and stuff these are still connected so the Wi-Fi the the build on that prefix is they do power related stuff they go out one way if they do something else they go out the other way I mean we want to have all the power to play with things okay but yes I mean Michael Richardson um so um my thoughts about this work and I you know followed it through six men and six low and stuff like this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "um is that I think that it um I think that IT addresses the edge snack case that I really don't remember when in the charter or not which is you know the vaguely sort of industrial uses for stub networks um and I don't think that really isn't our chart or really shouldn't be emphasized if it's there um there was a presentation I'm going to say two ietfs ago um from in the iot Ops working group about um Trends in industrial networks right and so you know he presented these industrial networks as if it was a virtue the fact that they had layers and layers of firewalls and and what that's not really how that's the project model how do you say 99 yeah ISO 99 pound you well well it was it's presented as it's presented as a virtue but it's not a virtue and we know that it's not a virtue we know what happened it was permissionless extensions of the network through Nat 4-4 and each guy came along with a subsystem of five or six hosts um discovered he had nothing to plug into and then they uh brought a router um and that router did not for four and they plugged that one in okay and then of course you know there's just extend this so so the fact that he had that the diagram showed six layers of firewalls down but really they were just not four four hosts um was not a what is presented as a security feature but it's really just justifying bad architecture through security right and and the new proposal was a flat network with a bunch of uh vlans um and routers that actually could do things and and a way to distribute the uh axles correctly so that they had connectivity go back to the iot but it's a very nice presentation a very nice concept right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "but the the key thing here that I took back is that it was very hard for any new vendor to enter an industrial Network because of all of the other stuff nobody wants to reconfigure their Network for the new guy because if anything goes wrong it's the new guy's fault and they're in trouble for having cooperated with the new vendor right well when you install a production line you install it for 20 plus years and you don't want to touch it at all for 20 years yes exactly right so this is exactly what's happening so what I'm saying is this the snack stub Network actually has the nice feature that um it it actually does let people deploy permissionlessly into that kind of network okay and so the interesting thing for me for your work and I'm sorry if that was a little bit like tenuous and I could write it down the interesting thing you're not this concept is that when that vendor shows up with the second subsystem because it's another part of the plant you know got a good got a good deal got a it was working well the the chemical mixer for the paint factory right thing and now they want to install it three more times okay well now they say whoa whoa hang on we don't need a whole new subnet we can now you do do Eros and this other stuff and we can actually now build uh the the proxy to ND kind of concept across the whole thing and I think that's very very useful but it requires them to think about this in advance and I think the thing about about unfortunately about this work is that it's 10 years too late to go into thread or something else and so we really need all of we to do this usefully we really needed to have put it in to all the other specs that we're doing something like specifically thread and so I don't see thread changing to be able to accommodate this and that's why I'm like well I really want to do it but I I don't think that it's useful uh until you know we actually have networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "that are are have some reason to do it and I don't think thread's going to adopt it tomorrow and I don't think matter is going to die don't think that thread as an indication of version in the frames yeah okay sure I'm not saying I couldn't do it I'm just saying that it's not in the spec today and and and this is unfortunate and it's an unfortunate problem of we don't always get people to you know especially when people spin off and go elsewhere and do their work elsewhere we don't always get manage to review and say well but you could have just done it this way it would have been simpler right and that's the problem you know as an ietf we have but as a as a seller of Technology but not necessarily A deployer of it so thanks Ted lemon just uh two things one um the use case for injecting routes is actually when you're trying to work with a cooperating infrastructure with and you want to be able to have the stub Network hosts be reachable from non-adjacent infrastructure links uh so it's not really about access control it's about uh it's about situations where you can't get an RA to the thing that needs to connect to you because it's on a different link yeah so if I think advice to device easy link so everything is on the different links right you're correct I mean yeah yeah so uh and the other thing is I mean I wouldn't lose hope that there isn't an application for any of the stuff that you've done in thread because there were some things in there that I thought oh we should talk about that and thread and see whether we can do it I'm not saying that it's going to get adopted I'm just saying I think it's worth talking about so okay so this is the only hand yeah you want to start something and you want me to do okay okay uh next uh topic of the agenda is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "discussion where we're going and next steps um am I right Pascal saying that our understanding as you said is that uh what you're describing the prefix registration is actually a possible tool to be considered for snack but it's not you know a complete solution right it's just that okay so I guess the question to the group is do we want to have do we want does the working group think we should be adopting Ted's draft as working group document for the first deliverable I think that's kind of uh where we are um any anyone wants to chime in and say yes no maybe uh do you agree and not agree before we can kind of um or something oh the ad is coming Eric wink I would prefer to have a document that says expected even in one line the httpd support to be defined so that we can adopt a document that includes the httpd clearly right it just take a minor step okay you can do it today and then you can adopt this and as an individual guy I will support it um so you're saying Eric that if we if we we asked the author to add uh one line that draft then would be possibly be able to be adopted by the working group but without that line we cannot decide this ear no we can we don't decide here anyway right as you know my point is if we do a call for adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "later today and for two weeks or whatever right this is up to you shares we will adopt a document without the support of the httpd right and we know there are discussion to be held sure so I want to get one line support to be defined I will be there or whatever right and then we can adopt this okay so oh Lorenzo uh lorenza I mean do we have to do that like they seem to be like pretty solid agreement within this room that like we want to make PD parts of the spec I think we can just say that in the email it's like you know the chairs you know we're calling for adoption by you know we recognize that that during the discussions there was strong support for including PD as part of the base back let's assume that we can do that when the while the document is being worked on yeah yeah let's call me a process freak but there's one line that can do it and Yes actually one thing I want to say is like let's not write something that could suggest that PD is going to come in a different document I would strongly oppose that outcome but you know if we say yeah this document will be updated to state that the hppd is part of it that's fine yeah hi I'm Bob Hinton I was just going to say that adoption usually means that the working group wants to work on it it doesn't mean there's any agreement or final agreement on what's in the document that happens later and that gets sorted out when you do a working group last call so I I don't see why we need to add another step here okay so um let's rephrase the question that if the document um contains uh you know DHCP PD um does the room feel in room in including"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "people virtual does the room feel that it would be a good document for a working group document or let's do the inverse do you any pop any P anyone think that this document would not be a good working group uh document for the first deliverable yeah I don't know how to do this yeah maybe okay oh there's a full uh tool okay uh yeah yes no no please add if if it includes DHCP V6 PD okay so that's new for me so it looks like we have a pool ongoing okay please um answer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "well I guess we need the kind of a timeout or something right no looks like pretty good consensus as Eric was saying whatever we you know discuss here will be uh you know doing this on the mailing list and uh obviously we'll wait another rev of the document which contains at least one liner to formally call the the adoption but you know this you know gives us a good feel for the working group uh chairs okay I guess we can close that oh you oh that's that's cool mediko is fantastic Stuart you have a question a comment yeah just uh uh I'm still at Tasha um remember what we're discussing right now and those I've rarely seen such a clear consensus uh what we're discussing is whether the working group is going to work on this document once the working group products that adopts the document is up to the working group to determine what goes into that document right we're not saying the document is finished and ready for last fall we're saying this is an interesting area to work on yep I will just add that it's now officially a moot point because I just submitted a document that mentions dhcpv6 hahaha okay so to do for the working group chairs to call for adoption of that new rev uh um in the mailing this in the coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "days um I think we're mostly done um there was uh so we do have another deliverable um and so I guess we could already call for people if there are any editor author to start working on the second deliverable while we are you know uh working on the first one sorry uh the complex case so uh just to clarify the second deliverable deliverable is the case where we want to have additional functionality uh that is enabled by integrating with the infrastructure Network and what that would mean is essentially the ability to do uh discovery of hosts on the on the stub network from non-adjacent infrastructure links and the ability to reach hosts on the infrastructure network from non-adjacent infrastructure links since we just added DHCP V6 we've sort of solved that problem the second problem but we haven't solved the first so that's the big difference I think in the document so the new document would basically just talk about uh you know how we would integrate this the the dnssd stuff into infrastructure essentially are we done yes about the use cases that you guys want to cover uh I had the discussion this morning uh I think it was with that Daniel I don't remember with whom but the use cases were something like this I've got my phone and my phone gets a slash 64 from my service provider and now I'd like to connect my phone into my home so that if my home Gateway works and they can get through the internet the devices which are either through I fight or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "through USB or whatever to my phone um kind of get relate to my home Gateway but on the other hand if my own Gateway dies then I would advertise the slash 64 to the home and then my home could still be served by my phone you see the kind of use case was that clear not clear so take the phone connect it the phone is the stub router the phone is the step brother but the prefix is not provided by the httpd and you have to to act as a relay for the Wi-Fi by the way but I mean just wondering if that could be because at home I would have used it recently if I had it because I had this discard so they cut they cut my fiber literally on the road right road work got fiber and and my whole home was isolated but I had my phone and I I could effectively teaser a few things on my phone but what I really would have liked to see is my phone takes over my home when my home is not there but on the other hand whatever I teaser to my phone would be routed through my home Gateway when my phone is at home so you got a A mobile provider providing uh Slash 56 to your phone so it's not the HTTP right the bottom line is not I get the prefix yeah 64 but not 56. oh C40 yeah Broadband for what what I cannot use it but at the same time when my home Gateway is dead hey use brought that for more stuff you see and and the bottom line being it's not the FCP in that case that's why I came to the mic so uh Ted lemon um I what Pascal just described as a use case that sort of fell into the home net Charter but doesn't entirely fall into our Charter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "um and there's a reason why we constrained our Charter the way we did it's because we want to get something done that actually works and that's not to criticize what Pascal is proposing because I think what Pascal is proposing is also useful but we probably ought to get the work done that we're chartered for first and then we can see if we want to yeah I feel there's someone here is going to the mic soon yeah lorenza clivia I think that's out of scope but also I mean this is not so it doesn't need any protocols to do this right like all you need is an option on your phone that says become a router for the for the Wi-Fi network and that's it right I mean I I don't think the mobile devices on the market today have this option that's partly because mobile data is so expensive and and something that you really really really want to use it to tell you explicitly that they want but like it's not hard to build such an option and all the bits that you need are there today you just like send an RA and then you're done so um I think yeah I don't think that's maybe should be here Michael Richardson here um so I think it largely Works actually Lorenzo I actually think I just have that option but um uh it just it just doesn't work with every every LTE provider that provides V6 for some reason some of them don't do the right thing to enable tethering and I haven't figured out the pattern but I know it worked in Austria and Netherlands but not in Germany on the same sim so um on a German Sim it worked in the Austria and Netherlands but not in Germany so um so a lot of that a lot of that works but I actually think that the the use cases actually um um I show up in my coffin Hotel and I would really like to have all of the devices that they've given me in that environment to join my network and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "when I leave again that's the thing uh that they go away now there's other issues with how that could work but on the routing side of things right you know increasingly we have people that don't have internet connections at home and they're okay with the concept that their home is offline when their phone is not present right and um so that's kind of is is a you know I think we should think about the stub Network situation in that scenario where there was a 15.4 uh Network behind a stub router in the coffin hotel right my phone shows up as the CPE router I don't think there's any any changes okay I think it's just all there right it just um it it there might be some get some some some gotchas that we we haven't thought of it uh Esco oh sorry do you want me to you need to be to put yourself in the queue yeah so it just got me thinking about uh Cellular in home so there's one case that is getting increasingly common is to have cellular backup of your home router so instead of having only a cable or Fiber connection you also have a an additional cellular backup so we might have to consider that kind of case what if the yeah home router slash CPE switches to the cellular uh backup so would that have any impact on the connectivity we of course want to keep that connectivity for for all the iot devices or stop network devices that there are so I think that's something to consider as well uh not just a user phone that takes that function but an actual backup module in the CPE maybe there's nothing special we need to do for that yeah maybe there is and by the way it's not expensive cellular I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "use it as if it's a free resource which and it's often faster than going to the Wi-Fi network of some place you are so yeah I'm sorry if that that's not the chatter for uh the point I mean I wanted more than the array what what I was asking is probably that the devices don't effectively change their addresses they want either to my phone stated or to my phone they see I need the phone prefix the one or they know the phone prefix the one that are on my home keep the home address they don't see the array from the phone and and they send the packet to the home Gateway but the home Gateway is aware that the broadband connection is broken it's aware that the phone is a plan B and so it will relay the packets to the phone on the phone network oh that's yes and yes the idea would be yes if you wanted that you can't state your name forensically you can't have you can't just have devices on the home network forward to the Gateway and the Gateway forward to the phone because the source address will be wrong they will be using the Wi-Fi network Source address from the assigned by the ISP which is now basically off the network off they're basically disconnected from the internet and so it's just going to go nowhere I mean you couldn't add it but we should probably not go there I mean the good news is all the phone needs to do is send an RA on the Wi-Fi network and it should work right even the hosts on the Wi-Fi network that have you know to have IPv6 addresses from the from the ISP can like acquire a second IPv6 addressing scenario yeah or the multiple real scenario it sort of works I mean like the multiple root of scenario works when one of them is not advertising when they're both advertising I think yeah we don't really have but anyway yeah that's uh just wanted to point that out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "um well given that the less uh comments were almost out of scope I guess we're done do you think we're done thank you very much thank you most money I was terrified when I saw myself yeah well I've got a little bit I basically I'm so behind on work from Heaven taking vacation like a big loser all right we don't do that anymore yeah it was it was very good I had a great time that's right and all my Feet's all over the place Good Times all right well I don't know are you are you gonna be I don't know we're gonna be in any more meetings"
  }
]
