[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "I know the meeting is almost ready to start and we\u0027ve already had the blue sheets go through once it\u0027s a good sign so it actually it is 5:40 so let\u0027s get started Thank You friends for being here the for this our second session of IDR like the previous session we\u0027re not gonna go on and on from the chair one thing we did want to talk about for just a minute is auto-discovery and you know as those of you for whom this isn\u0027t your first meeting we\u0027ll know we have touched on this topic multiple times in over the last couple years and a couple days ago one of the authors approached me and said Shawn are we gonna do this work or what and I said yeah we\u0027re gonna do this work and thank you for bringing that up but the the deal is that we haven\u0027t sort of successfully really driven to conclusion on what so it\u0027s pretty clear to the chairs and if you you know if you disagree with this you know let us know in person at the mic now in private whatever but I mean we\u0027re pretty sure that the there\u0027s interest in the working group to work on this auto-discovery thing we last time we tried to reach consensus on a specific draft to move forward with we had some interesting discussions but we didn\u0027t have a clear conclusion the the good news is if you go back and look at the different drafts that were proposed and I think that you know in various flavors were you know we got up to at least four of them they\u0027re all pretty close in terms of semantics they all look more or less like let\u0027s exchange the data necessary to bootstrap hold on just one second to bootstrap appearing and then let\u0027s you know move forward from there AC yes please go ahead as a simple reason for that John a selenium Cisco Systems they all copied mind exactly when when you care enough to copy from the very best that\u0027s yeah if anybody would like to do Tom Lehrer impressions later you know at the bar please do okay so so yeah but we\u0027ve got there are a number of important differences between the various approaches and things that just haven\u0027t gotten nailed so rather "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "than having you know a whole several different teams of authors continue to work on their own drafts and then you know debate about it in the working group our tentative conclusion is maybe this is time for IDR to actually charter a design team to get together and say you know where 80% converged anyway let\u0027s converge on to one proposal we\u0027ll bring it to the working group and do it by the next IETF so that\u0027s our proposal we hope to put together a design team in the next couple weeks if you\u0027re interested in working on it please approach the chairs if you\u0027re have suggestions for how it should operate that means you probably should also approach the chairs you know we would like to do a solution that is pragmatic because there\u0027s obviously been appetite for this for a while now let\u0027s get it done and then we can iterate forward so it does not necessarily have to solve the generic ultimate protocol problem it just has to be useful for some of the important use cases that\u0027s about it will keep the working group updated you know it\u0027s our our intention to not have this be a long live design team like I said hopefully to conclude by the next IETF and report out if you have questions or comments right now you know the mics are open otherwise we can continue forward please go ahead Randy Bush I J anarchists conclude but conclude by the next IETF is Vancouver being canceled sorry I don\u0027t think you\u0027re gonna make Fame you think that I\u0027m an unrealistic goal okay well I\u0027m famous for setting unrealistic goals we thank you for the for the feedback you\u0027re probably right if you say that because you\u0027ve done this more times than I have we will at least have a report out by the next IETF if it\u0027s an interim report then so be it I mean obviously the conclusion of the design team at least my expectation is the design team is not to present the working group with a finished product the design team is to present the working group with a zero-zero at which point we will proceed forward but your point is well-taken nonetheless thank you there is one thing this will be held as open working groups and open meetings meaning they\u0027ll be WebEx that should allow according to ELISA anyone who wants to participate read that is I don\u0027t think will be impacted by any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "restrictions for any of you okay June please hello my presentation contains two drafts both are about the using BGP to advise IPSec config started okay yeah so the first one is I\u0027ve made update for mark previous IDR BGP IPSec a draft so that update is based on the feedback feedback I received so far since last IDF the first one I replaced the color sub-team is the new IP ii finishing tag sub TOB the reason being that instead of being overload the color sub TOB it\u0027s clear to use a new sub theory for such poppers next ones are some text on the selecting theories when there are multiple IP SEC theories availables basically is that would you when there are multiple feasible secretary in the update you can choose one based on the most explicit or we say shortest reign address range match and then there\u0027s a lecture on the parity cosmetic so basically changing the crypto using the example of a draft from the AES CBC to the like more more than crypto structure and so this basically just cosmetic change and also they change title from which be signal or IP sector no coefficient to bgp provisioned nano configuration and also add a section basically to outline that some what should what system should do in when the tanner goes down or when sister should agree stops taro and also add more content in the Security section basically he says like I agree to what kind of mechanism to proven accurate to level dos attack and so also at specification and map of time each of this new sub theory could appear in the give antenna theory and so order some clarification in the intro to just to clarify this draft is about IPSec can a mode and then last why is that basically the traffic selector itself and the proper the pot and pod range now coming "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "from mapping of the IPSec conviction tag so these are the updates then I write a new draft about using the IPSec transport mode with any type of IP said sorry any type of IP tunnel so this one is little bit different from current what define in the tunneling cap draft current Alan capital can specifies how panel stack works like for example tano X in inside a kind of Y but the IPSec trust model is working it\u0027ll be different because it\u0027s really not a ton of stack it\u0027s really using a same IP header for the IPSec transport protection so here is example as you can see different from the IPSec tunnel mode here you don\u0027t really have as new IPSec IP header here you are reuse the pay little packets IP header adding a ESP header and then basically the IPSec protection is applied to the payload of the original clear packet so it is it\u0027s like it\u0027s like attribute to exiting IP tunnel for example in this in this figure it shows the GRU is IPSec transformer protection but it could be any type of a piano like be excellent whatever you couldn\u0027t apply this every sector spot action so the current kind of ink up that and really address such a use case so I that\u0027s why I great a new draft for this I think or it goes through this so how does it work so in this draft I introduce a new IPSec transport protected sub tier V the value of this theory sub theory is that it\u0027s an IPSec convenient tag as defined in the previous draft when IPSec in capturing theory includes this new sub theory it means that the sizing router requires IPSec transport mode protection for the corresponding IP tunnel so for example if you have this IPSec transport mode protection sub TV inside a VX LAN at a node theory which means that the vine router requires you to use IPSec trust mode along with VX Lantana to reach this particular route so once the receiving side receiving router get this update and and descend to four packets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "to this advancing router so he will use following a piece of config to create a try to say so basically you use transpose with ESP and then the public probability instance would be the same as the packet to be forwarded and the pier tunnel address would be same as indicated in the remote endpoints of tier V the local traffic selector would be the following address range would be the Lakota endpoint address the protocol and the pot grinch coming from the IPSec configured attack mapped a value similar to the motor traffic selector address range would be the address in the remote endpoint security of the selected tunnel in capsule in theory the protocol and Poe range will become from the tech mapped value and other transfer confusion like transform a lifetime those ipsec confusion also come from the tech map value so this is a quite straightforward idea to have this IPSec transport mode protection protocol attano editor the BGP so lastly I think because these two draft is just the extension to existing working group draft Italian Cup drafts so I hope we can what more can consider to adopt these two drafts and ideas pretty straightforward [Music] Stephanie toasty maybe question two chairs with the two draft I do you plan to obsolete 5566 sorry I was asking if you are planning to deprecated 5566 if we are going through this draft because we are defining using all the way to to do for example MPLS of our IP SEC or IPSec yeah I think the answer I have a few questions for him I the old IPSec tunnels work slightly different in my mind but I may need more clarity I don\u0027t think we should I think they work different is the answer but I may be mistaken so before I can do a working group last call or adoption call I\u0027ve got to figure out how much overlap last time my understanding from the SEC folks is that they made some suggestions for it so I hope you\u0027ll be glad to read it as well and give me your opinion along with the other question okay I have a little bit of a different answer I mean not not contradictory but my answer is does anyone here know of any reason why "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "we shouldn\u0027t obsolete 55 66 if we adopt this work you can answer later this is Linda Dunbar from future way I have a few questions on this so how do you distribute this PGP update because when you talk about IPSec between two nodes right you\u0027re going through public network so from a say we have four peers how does he send this update to be also just BGP regular listen well regular BGP is transported through trusted domain so here we\u0027re going through untrusted so this message is BGP update from a do you just suppose it as an internet package just IP packet to send it to be through with public internet yeah this is just V so just the control plane protocol right so yeah I think I think your point is mainly on how do you I\u0027ll do safeguard BGP itself from like attacking attacking right that\u0027s that\u0027s your point like there\u0027s a multiple mechanisms in VG like HV sack like outbound the future you can use those to prevent attacking okay so no not much more than that because this packet is not encrypted is it encrypted no BGP server even we can run BGP as well right all right but you have much more information just than a s number I\u0027m talking to my peers you\u0027re talking about configuration or the Lexi have a is in Singapore B is in Beijing or in Dallas for example and you\u0027re sending this BGP update from Singapore to Dallas through public internet with your configuration Wow is I mean this is tough see that when you okay I don\u0027t really care internet or not it\u0027s it\u0027s just IP packets okay that\u0027s one question I have second question I read your new draft update you proposed for sub T OBS right so I see some of the sub T Ovie\u0027s information already carried by the BGP update for example your local address right local address actually you can be encoded in the next index and also why not no no so the local local prefect as it is no it\u0027s not he\u0027s not a little next stop I think about the local endpoint kind of in point sub tre not that that\u0027s already included in the draft hey guys our time is pretty tight so if you\u0027ve got like specific questions about encodings and stuff like that I\u0027d like to ask you to keep that for the mailing list if you have like fundamental questions like your first one was more about the security properties I think that\u0027s appropriate for our discussion time here ok ok thank you my first main concern because through the public Internet the BGP and you do have someone in line behind you jeff has and this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "directed mostly to Linda\u0027s question so everything in the tunnel encapsulation attribute has this security problem in the sense of you know the security properties can get away from where the routes have been injected this means that you have to worry about securing this at your edges of your network that is actually the terminal on caps security considerations and this is a section that the security ADEs have given a little bit of scrutiny they\u0027re not necessarily happy with our answer about trying to scope the stuff but it\u0027s already discussed in the document so Jeff my understanding is when you use the tunneling cap in an MPLS network or in the trusted network and you are in the ward in domain so that eliminates some of the concerns oh that\u0027s my yes and it does address it by having an ad transports that are a little bit more localized so you\u0027re having trouble hearing you and I I do need to so if you just raise the mic sorry say that again Linda is correct that transport such as MPLS do have the advantage that they\u0027re sort of put scopes locally to a network whereas this or to take an example SR v6 which knows intentionally supposed to be able to go across no things like the Internet the security considerations do change a little bit and I suspect at some point this is going to come back and make the security ADEs make doesn\u0027t has Carter questions okay so that\u0027s that leads me to my next question who do you feel this draft answers all the security considerations that Ben gave you last time because that that will be my check before I before we go through it I have to also answer the IPSec I have to answer the administrator I think I already applied every question they posed in the mail list okay and just thought that you believe you finished it and you answer them and your mailing list comment is is complete yes okay I think I will I will need to I read that I thought I followed it but I will need to do a deep dive so this may take me a little time to prep for a working group adaption call I have to open items the the previous IPSec VPNs and this so please give me a little time to do a little digging on this before not that I\u0027m trying to not do an adoption call I need to do an intelligent one and just to conclude my comments I do think that this work is worth working on but getting the security correct is going to be very challenging thank you okay hello can you hear me okay so this is the second time we\u0027re presenting this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:15",
    "text": "and just give an update on what we have done so far so the intention of the draft it is really a informational draft we have applied a Safi for sd-1 and here we want to explain how the sap is used that\u0027s it and we will be glad to get I would like to get your feedback on how we use it or maybe some suggestions will be even better actually we already call some suggestions from some IPSec folks so in this domain you can see that we have a bunch of CPEs located in different locations and the CPE is interconnected by multiple types of network they can have MPLS Network and they can also have in Internet public Internet untrusted and they are in their own administrative domain together with the route reflector so each of the nodes has the secure channel to the rot reflector Dave Corral had this good term Confederated IPSec so it\u0027s different from the traditional peer-to-peer IPSec like if you do traditional IPSec as who we drink just mention that you need to configure a lot more things not only need to configure yourself you configure your peers and you configure who is attached on your side and who is attached on the remote side and you have to set up the tunnel peer-to-peer in this Confederated mode each node don\u0027t even know who is he is supposed to talk to basically the security policy the set as ad is managed by the reflector the central controller this is for the SD one case a node is expected to be 0 attached provisioning while he being powered up supposed to be running right away so he doesn\u0027t even know who he can talk to so he\u0027s in his own information to the rot reflector to the controller and then with his own information in the wrong reflector decide who this message is propagated to and in this domain is under the assumption everybody trusts his own controller because this update is just a small portion of the entire scheme of things not only you trust the controller tell you who we are supposed to talk to you also have other configurations like the tractor pattern who your client is a bunch of more information which is complete out of scope of BGP idea so in in this domain the node himself what do a regular BGP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "update to basically propagate his attached routes that\u0027s basically his VPN his attached routes he will use the BGP update regular BGP update with I pass attributes to indicate all the routes and if they\u0027re tunnel and whatever encapsulation he may use tunnel pass attribute to indicate them and then in addition to the regular BGP update what he need to do next is to be able to propagate the report properties because the web property from note like CP 2 is not visible to the remote node right remote knows doesn\u0027t know so what he does need to do is be able to advocate propagate the the web port properties including the routable public routable address because this PE choose port to get assigned address from isp like for example Verizon or China Telecom and so he need to tell them Who am I my identity and then send a message through a secure channel to the route reflector and row reflector were propagate that information to the remote notes were authorized remote notes in them so in the Li the path attribute you will give the identity of the sport the one foot and in the past the tunnel in cap path attribute and you need to include the net information you need to include IPSec information if there\u0027s a certain application can only be talking have certain topology you may need to indicate that as well so that\u0027s basically how this new and RI is used is used for an ten defy the web port that\u0027s it the tunneling cap is pretty much saying as before so so for the the web port and entity there will be several attributes to uniquely identify this went port so there will be port and then the fire write this port and then if I may be locally significant the note may only know oh this is meant number one point number two port numbers report and there\u0027s another attribute could be where am i I\u0027m in Singapore okay I\u0027m in in Dallas for example basically geographic location of this note whatever this provider need to decide on they will use their specific identifier for their site location another one is the routable address meaning how can anybody else reach you right see if if I\u0027m here in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:18",
    "text": "Singapore and my peers in Dallas and they had to know how to reach me there has to be a routable address so that\u0027s the note ID address okay those three attributes uniquely identify the port here is the sub TOB for the net so basically you need to indicate what kind of a net type it is you need to indicate how your panel associated property associate with net here is the information to be carried minimum information we\u0027re not talking about full suite of information for IPSec but minimum information that there\u0027s no need to pass through his route his controller actually I took most of the information from Dave Dave Corral\u0027s a draft so basically you need to include what kind of weather is a th or ESP whether it is your public key right you have to tell everybody a public key you have to tell them the the key counter this key is the first time or second time and you know child tell the controller your nose and you may have another indicator you probably want to tell so I have another field that keys three they\u0027re just four additional field that\u0027s that\u0027s it and that\u0027s the minimum ones and if if this this and note need to establish like route based IPSec tunnel you can also do that actually you can use footings draft to be able to establish broad-based IPSec tunnels so next step I would like to call for working group adoption the reason is to be able to demonstrate how PGP is used to do the port based IPSec and to scale the sd1 overlay Network I guess I have two questions one is is you you say it\u0027s to demonstrate demonstrate how BGP is used do you really mean like you want to ship a product that actually does this or do you actually mean you just want to use it for a demo okay because today people use a HRP and use DM a VPN thr p and h RP h RP that much so today people use an HR p actually is modified and HRT a Sharpie is for atm so they modify it many vendors does that and it\u0027s okay for device just supporting that by for device already suppose a PGP stack is much easier and simpler okay I was just getting hung up on this word demonstrate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:19",
    "text": "but really what you\u0027re saying is you just like the solution you want to ship the solution you think it\u0027s a worthwhile solution yeah it\u0027s worse well yes okay and then that leads into the second question which is your intended status as informational is that you don\u0027t want it to be standards track well I just feel like informational just to show that this is in the first-come first-serve branch of the Safiye and just demonstrate how it\u0027s used okay I mean just because it\u0027s FCFS doesn\u0027t mean that you can\u0027t ask for us to enter its track I mean to me this looks like standards track work and I would think that if the working group I mean I guess if the working group were going to adopt it my inclination would be to say this looks like standards track okay actually I\u0027m gonna work with David with me afterwards and see if his draft like he has this draft and if we want to take the content for them his content is device information message that\u0027s the specific content of that merged together with this draft then that definitely can become standard yes actually actually did John made the same point I was gonna make about the information I read the draft on the plane and I didn\u0027t even realize I thought it was standards track okay and and I didn\u0027t check to see that the Safi was a FC FS yeah I Anna so I didn\u0027t know that you wouldn\u0027t need a document to allocate one I mean it wasn\u0027t apparent to me but I understand okay thank you thank you that\u0027s a good question it does look like stand-in in reading it looked a lot like standard strike to me to grace that okay so I work with David is that\u0027s his component can be merging with this one then we can okay thank you thank you very much thanks I\u0027m so yes there\u0027s been a lot of interest in this draft in in the last three months since Montreal a lot of good discussion on both the IDR list and the grow list a lot of good feedback so we this was Warren and I were keeping it alive for the last maybe several years but now the interest has picked up in the last two months we have had two updates of this draft Jeff offered some very interesting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:20",
    "text": "slides with good insights regarding the asset implementation and now how that results in some of the quality behavior that we see in the measurements he also offers in couple of his slides some pretty good advice or operational considerations items so-so is going to pick up on from some of the slides and speak to them so tremendous interest in trying to get this done the deprecated yes sets and yes can fred seitz at least we have been doing a great deal of measurements and the measurements show that out of 800,000 routes less than 500 have a assets in them so very a minuscule percentage and if you start looking at them more closely we\u0027ve done a pretty detailed analysis the link is at the bottom if you look at them closely only 21 have meaningful air sets and the remaining 450 so fifty-four and fifty or so don\u0027t have they don\u0027t seem to have meaningful air sets why before you go off of that since that\u0027s an interest in statistic do you know why you have these malformed oh goody I\u0027m a straight person so part of it is implementation quirks so then we looked at aggregate atomic aggregate aggregate or atomic aggregate out of again 800,000 updates about 10 percent have aggregate aggregator in them and out of the 76,000 or 10 percent less than half of them also have atomic aggregate let Jeff speak to the next so the interesting thing we\u0027re seeing in this dad\u0027s is that roughly 10 percent of the Internet is using a knob that is resulting in aggregation of routes so this is proving that no this is actually a dangerous thing for us to be touching what if we actually get involved in the specs this is really my feedback no that is generated this light so slides that if we\u0027re going to actually try to get rid of this there\u0027s a lot of implication not a lot of documents and if we get it wrong well you\u0027re impacting 10% of the prefixes on the Internet and that\u0027s obviously a scary thing but looking at specific data sets one of the things that we see is you know these weird things where we have a single S at the end that has a set element in there and now we have you know 40 to 71 actually tells us how we do this and Jared moach was actually very kind to send know some routes from his network that demonstrated you know one of the reasons we get into this simple example is that consider a set of a s set of routes that have you know in null a s path this is strictly internal and then you have similar set of routes that have a single a s in there if you do aggregation by the current rules you know the longest common path is 0 and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "everything else gets tossed into us at length of 1 now what\u0027s sort of interesting for these things it is potentially possible in such a case - maybe merge this into the actual AAS sequence that\u0027s right next to it in that case the length would be preserved versus what we actually see of the set on there but the question really becomes whether this is preserving the actual origin 1/10 especially since the whole point of this exercise is people don\u0027t like this because of its impact on rpki so the two observations here is that in the case where you may actually have in the case of you know and a s followed by a set of the same a s the merge operation has sort of an optimization may make sense to preserve the length the other observation is pretty much the brief style of aggregation which has been implemented by pretty much every implementation of each B aggregation since the 1990s will actually make this know the correct this picture is just to make the point that if as long as a s 3 which is aggregating P 1/24 and P 2/24 into a P slash 23 as long as a s 3 does not announce the less specific to a s 2 and even though a s 4 may announce it to a s to sew up that I mean why horizontal is lateral peer-to-peer and slanted is customer to to provider so even if is for announces the the less specific to a s 2 s 2 will still be fine because it installs the less specifics that are necessary within the the the more specifics that are necessary within the less specifics s operation at a s 2 the overall operation will be fine only problem arises when if P 2 stash 24 gets cut off then there is a possibility of data packets looping for a brief period of time and that goes away when the recovery happens the network recovers or a s 2 decides to D aggregate because it doesn\u0027t have one of the contributing let more specifics so with the aggregator alone and without using a a set things seem to work fine generally so in the draft we have this must and should we are still debating that we do say that if you are locally I mean don\u0027t must you must not or the router must not locally generate bgp update messages containing a set a set or a s Confed set and we we do say also that upon receipt of a message of such kind the conformant BGP speaker should use Street as we draw so one question is would the working group like to see that change to must just use the stronger language and deprecated without allowing any room for use of a assets\u0027 under any circumstances and that would help things like IP care origin "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:22",
    "text": "validation BGP SEC and Alexander\u0027s ASP a great deal not having assets in the updates so there are two choices here def is as you will see in the next few slides he he thinks that it is possible to just have a BCP with the operational considerations clearly specified on the other hand we can do a change to the existing RFC\u0027s that that talk about a SaaS Confed set make it as standards document which which updates these other documents which has a asset india\u0027s conferred set on them in them and it\u0027s doable I have identified how many mentions of these things are there we can go and make specific target recommendations regarding wording changes so that syllable so just if you go back to that I\u0027d like to add something however and I were just discussing the fact that there is some desire to see RC forty to seventy one head tortoise internet standard and some of these might fall along the same way that is one of the projects that I\u0027ll send to the working group it might be the time to do that since we would have to do it anyway and I had a lot of pieces so this might not be the problem you\u0027re thinking that was something we were talking about in the Charter if you hate that idea do come tell the chairs the idea if we do an internet standard is not new features but to document what is existing in out there just so I holding questions just one second so the feedback I have given is that if we are going to touch these specs it is deeply intrusive and we have to be very very very very careful about them and a number of us spent a lot of time getting these right the alternate paths for you know standardizing this or PC peeing this is no we\u0027re saying pretty much every implementation does support brief aggregation so no new code is actually needed to do the correct thing here convincing your vendor that a default knob no needs to change his behavior that\u0027s a different question but in terms of functionality it is already present there isn\u0027t any need to necessarily change in the RFC\u0027s 6472 came out some time ago and said stop doing this well they\u0027re not gonna stop doing this is brief implementations it is reasonable to ask the vendors including the person that\u0027s standing at the microphone here to add policy such that a assets can be matched with in the policy engine so that you can implement no drop this prefix if you so chose and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:23",
    "text": "somewhat in the absence of no people actually no doing any of these things rpki filtering is becoming more and more common if people don\u0027t clean up their own act in their own self-interest they\u0027re just something I get their routes filtered anyway you know this is a self-correcting problem my sort of recommendation is that we take this opportunity and you know clean it use the operational considerations section here and cover the facts of what happens but you know what was sets actually there for it what does it actually prevent you in terms of receiving routes within your network and receiving your own forwarding so you know that the behaviors that we need that we see that are known that are called out in the RFC but aren\u0027t necessarily something you think through unless you\u0027re an operator aggregators you know the person that\u0027s actually doing that needs to supply the more specifics to the contributing a s\u0027s you know that\u0027s that\u0027s the behavior that was expected out of this when you\u0027re doing proxy aggregation it\u0027s not documented anywhere the entity that\u0027s doing the aggregation should not send the aggregate downstream to the contributing gases and that answers that are getting aggregated probably should be rejecting routes that contain your own address space and making sure that we have some sort of policy knob that\u0027s capable of doing that you know is a tricky thing I\u0027m aware of from at least one that when a service provider that they have a practice of taking their own address space and basically nailing up a black hole route internally for all of their own space and this keeps traffic knowing in the case you actually do get some sort of a great route internetwork from leaving the network this again is not written down anywhere and this is not a bad place to put it okay please keep comments brief we are running really short on time thank you shared much Akamai thank you also sorry for the ASX that we found and thank you for looking into it if you find any more from us we\u0027d like to clean those up because those are definitely not an intended operation and I suspect that\u0027s the case actually with the majority of the ones out there I think that we probably want to deprecated this this stuff and it might be helpful if the vendor has even delivered a soft knob where I could on my administrative domain say hey I\u0027d like to drop these there\u0027s drop path attributes options that exist on some vendors that allow you to drop those and if I can drop routes including certain path attributes and being able to drop a SS routes I suspect would allow people to update and correct their configuration and the aggregate function I think has been we\u0027ve we\u0027ve seen a number of weird issues with that and we\u0027re gonna we need to change the way that we r originator routes as a result but thank thank you for this Warren Kumari Google um while I\u0027m all for moving 40 to 71 to like full "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:25",
    "text": "standard but keep in mind it\u0027s a huge job and it\u0027s gonna take a really really long time I\u0027ve seen oh and it\u0027s gonna be much navel-gazing I\u0027ve projected this three times before Warren I\u0027m but I think it\u0027s really neat that there\u0027d be a short-term effect because this needs to happen sooner rather than later I think I want to echo Jared this is a thank you this is going to be a lot of hard work but it\u0027s needed to be done we couple of years so you go gosh and skip Verizon media Yahoo a couple years ago like eight or so we went through a painful process of changing every single announcement that we had that was using aggregation a assets to do atomic aggregate so I\u0027d like to echo Jared can you give people a knob that just says convert AS sets to atomic aggregate that would be such an applied and I think most of it it could just be work around kind of like that because for most of us it was just the default way of doing aggregation we just say aggregate this it came from three different asses and they just kind of got nailed up so I get it I\u0027m gonna call this the guillotine option I don\u0027t think it\u0027s actually a good idea to go changing other people\u0027s AAS paths even though you know obviously you could do such a an OP to do this on your infrastructure cleats brief yeah it\u0027s what the whole thing\u0027s for yeah so that would be very helpful to be able to do that so if you\u0027re an aggregator and you\u0027ve got a s set as a result of you being an aggregator just kill it because otherwise at least right now you have to go manually router out another router and that takes time but that\u0027s okay all the noise can fix your telecom just a short remark I\u0027ll try seeing seeing discussion about cleaning up certain historic artifacts and deprecating some of them I would suggest we probably should be also considering to clean up as far as possible the a that you bite a SS showing up just I I got the idea we should be thinking about it after once more this week having to comment that well okay figure well okay creating complexity in new BGP stuff to take care of the of implementations that actually don\u0027t do to be don\u0027t do for by it is that\u0027s that\u0027s a that\u0027s a thing of a past so comments the chairs basically what we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:25",
    "text": "have is no we the original draft which says let\u0027s perceive a deprecation I\u0027m offering an alternate path that\u0027s basically here\u0027s ways to take it forward as a clean up thing the Britain group will need to figure out which way wants to go I can contribute text either right thank you yep so as you will have noticed from my increasing I so we\u0027re done thank you for my increasing agitation we are running super short on time we so kitten I\u0027m gonna ask you yeah to just fly through these all right okay so this very quick get ontological Cisco so we have this working group draft it\u0027s about SR policy Safi for signaling of SR policies from controllers to head ends by a BGP now it\u0027s been there for quite some time and we are preparing for working group last call it\u0027s a companion draft of the SR policy architecture draft which is in spring and also close to working group last call implementations are around even deployments so what we have done in this recent updates is taken care of some things to make this last called smoother and go faster so I\u0027m not going to go into all of these because there has been some disk on the thread and we are running short of time so key points is error handling things have been consolidated in in one section just to make it easier IANA considerations has been updated to catch something which was missed out from the color extended community and some minor changes to the allocation process we welcome feedback so this is really more of a heads up to the working group to review provide inputs implementation reports have been updated with two implementations so hopefully by when cooler maybe we can get it the next one is the BGP also working group document for BGP LS applications specific attributes this will be even faster hope so just want to update the progression so this was adopted and we have got code points and implementations are also in progress the key thing which I wanted to point out here is that underlying IGP specs have are in the review is de review and as they have been updated based on feedback we have updated this spec to be aligned with them so again I\u0027m not going "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:26",
    "text": "to go into the details but at a high level that\u0027s all about what the changes to this draft is so we are requesting for review and once the IDP drafts go past the work there is d reviews we hope that we can do a working group last call for this as well AC are you here still yeah there when you look at it for I GPS would you make sure that it still makes sure to be a standalone document with with this being this that this document should be a standalone document you don\u0027t have to answer just we look at it a seal and a seal indem Cisco Systems LS our working group chair it should be a standalone document because the two IG p documents have gone so far okay thank you that I mean they\u0027re they\u0027re actually they\u0027re actually in in lburrows q4 review they\u0027ve completed working group last call hi my name is Ian from juniper I\u0027m going to present this new draft called the BGP flexible color based on o selection so in the inter demand sigma routing we are seeing more and more cases where you know network attributes and natural resources are assigned colors and colors used together with BGP next hop to map a prefix you know a service prefix or pelo prefix to transport a nose so in this case here we have pedal prefix with BGP next sub N and color red and we map it to a red tunnel to n there are two reason behind that once that you know color is a very generic in the notion it can be used to represent any you know there were attributes second reason is that you know color encoded as BGP community can be conveniently signaled across the main boundaries and can be signal from controller to routers so if we can assign colors to network attributes or animal resources we\u0027ll be able to create the color tunnels and color the panel prefixes the kind of tunnel would be the color of the network attribute that based on which the tunnel is established and the color of the payload prefix will be the color of the you know that the color of the type of the tunnel that the prefix desires so on top of that if we can do color based Tunnel selection will have a very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:26",
    "text": "general service map in the chasm it can work in you know inter domain environment and controller driven environments so uh red you know red color panel prefix mapping to a retino is the most basic mapping mode in many cases we would like to have much more flexibility flexibility so that\u0027s the purpose of this draft in this draft so this trap introduced a set of you know the final defines a set of extended mapping modes and it talks about how to use this mode to construct so called flexible selection schemes each scheme consists of a sequence of extended modes in in a fallback order meaning that you know you select your title based on the first mode if it\u0027s unsuccessful you you know move on to your second mode and a third mode so on so in this example we have pelo prefix with next op n and color red and that the user may define a scheme and attach to that pelo prefix there are three modes in this scheme the first ones are color IP card with a fallback blue and green so what this means that you know will first attempt to find a red tunnel to end if it\u0027s unsuccessful we\u0027ll move on to look for a blue you know a plutonic to N and and now green tunnel to n if the entire first mode is and success we will move on to the second mode which is in this case converged IP color with a fallback blue meaning that we\u0027re going to convert the IP address and to a ipv6 address and then look for a red tunnel to that ipv6 service or if it\u0027s a and successful we\u0027ll move on to a pluton know if the entire second mode is unsuccessful we\u0027re going to the third mode which is IP only meaning that we can I just equal ignore the color and look for a and color the tunnel to so there are three modes to provision a flexible selection scheme first one is called ingress provision mode in this mode we configure the scheme as a local policy on the ingress router and we apply that you know policy to the payload prefixes second voice mode is called egress provisioning mode we comfort a configure the scheme the egress router and I will use BGP to signal the scheme with the payload prefix to two ingress routers and here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:26",
    "text": "we are using a new path attribute called the flexible color tunnel exit path attribute and then on the each ingress router we you know apply the scheme to the associate pelo prefixes similarly we have a third mode called controller provisioning mode where the controller will signal the scheme by using the the new path attribute to ingress routers and then on each ingress router we apply the scheme to associate the pale Oprah Figgis this shows the encoding of the new path attribute it consists of a sequence of extended mapping mode T RVs each t RV has a mode value and it may optionally have a list of four for bad colors so this Lisa for bad colors applied to the some some mode not all the modes okay and the segment routing policy draft and ID are same routing policy draft defines two so called color only a bits in the color extending community and defines three four back modes compared to that this this draft just you know provide a more flexible and extendable mechanism in the fully support the four back predefined by the the two drafts in the case that the a flexible selection scheme and the sealed bids coexist if the the scheme is defined as a local policy on the ingress router will give you no preference to the local policy if it\u0027s received by the new path attribute and in that case we\u0027re going to give preference to the C opiates so next hall next steps we like to encourage the working group to review and I have just a few questions for you number one have you shown this particular scheme to the spring folks who are working on the other dress with policy we have not okay that might be at least why since you refer to that secondly can you compare and contrast it with the use that other than the IPSec portion that June was using for his color the the in captain cut path attribute applies to a prefix that\u0027s you know you know Tom knows that bill there pal right specify actually I\u0027m sorry can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:27",
    "text": "I ask you to take it offline because we\u0027re we\u0027re actually out of session time we have one more thing on the agenda I will ask people if you can if you have five minutes please give us five more minutes please we did have go ahead I\u0027m just as you\u0027re setting up I\u0027m gonna make one other announcement which was we had one extra talk that came in late we put it on if time allows time is not going to allow I\u0027m sorry Louis you know group members can look on that on this meeting material site and see the slides hello I\u0027m hiper wall from Holly a noun well introduce a definition a tRNA is filter for TPA flows back because now frostback is used for a judge traffic or more and more some some operators give me some requirements outside you want to adjust a trafficker from four special is from one side to another side such as the front they want to adjust the traffic from r2 to r3 in current method or we can we also care into each but we must generate several multiple across the back roads understanding the true the rotor we must use for sewing room you will use s IP and the IP and multiple to do this but we probably mostly sell so we use one road to instead of multiple we use a destination IP or aeneas route to instead of multi port kasnia IP address this is have some benefits for example it\u0027s easier to for operator operator and also with it will reduce the messages for several earth from server server to rotor and also it may reduce the number of suspects table entries we now use a new component type 40s and we for this common highway suggest method to to realize it to look up or to knock out fit then catch the t IPS or me ears and then use a TS to match the distro also you may have another two options you to expand that he asked for to multiple the IP based arose under the there is a location and the evolution gotcha we may come back combined this leg z combines a new component which exists for us back common answer for shark man matching the way combined with the money touched and also more new types so we want to introduce such as a society or nes and destination IP community or society community and the others and we also have will receive some comments there are two about too many considered one is the security consideration we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:28",
    "text": "that we may use capability negotiation for direction direct connection between Realtors and our flow space or us and also we may your PMP to connect a Rotel capability then the server can control whether to send us a new component the type to the rotor also women you know the target to country to control well which rotor that can receive this new component type and now another question Natalie whether we will use a new Safi for this common type because now the new covenant I will also provides a match criteria under a fruit spec architecture north of the component type of menu together with existing common type so we don\u0027t want to use a new Safiye later on we may welcome to or for comments thank you Jeff Alice I\u0027m going to just make the point that my this comments stand please review the comments on the list for context but you have mischaracterize my objection my objection is that flowspec operates and firewall rules you are reaching across the boundary between the firewall and the red I agree I agree a seal in them especially you have the AS origin and i think okay you\u0027re pushing that into the fifth then you say we could do all these other rules to it i\u0027m thinking oh my god you\u0027re gonna put all the bgp attributes into the FIB no same command and is number or any other bootie Phe booties never and keep your interaction with the best path selection and be clear about that it\u0027s not a good idea by the way you know if we do not consider expanded releases total too many week because they\u0027re only the as ace number because you know you can take the flow control more flag more flexibility you know and is option against the you know kind of a but fifth table okay you don\u0027t from Howie actually I think we in this draft it provides two options wise you match the destination is in the FIBA another issue you think lenses to several rules in the device but you just need to advertise wine from the server this is two options okay now because we\u0027re five minutes over thank you everybody for sticking it out sorry for running over our time twice in one week we\u0027ll try to do better next time hope to see you all there please I know we\u0027ve had to cut off several conversations I hope you continue them on the list or out in the hallway thanks again [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:34",
    "text": "you "
  }
]