[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "hey folks hi Reese how's it going yeah slowly progressing okay good so it looks like we really uh are really close to nailing down the API and I'm really really lucky to see that yeah I'm excited we are still seeing activity on the GitHub even after you know years and years this but better than we did all the work in vain so oh for sure yeah I'm gonna send a little reminder to in case people don't find the link hi folks here we go so any plans to for you guys going to London I am virtual for London unfortunately I'm not sure I wanted to go physically but it seems like I might not be able due to budget cuts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:17",
    "text": "yeah I don't know I feel like my next one might be San Francisco next summer I'm just kind of a little lazy with traveling um so I mean oh there you go oh no yeah um yeah travel has become a bit more of a hassle even than before so yeah for sure and it's like I was just traveling to Europe earlier this month and then I'm planning to travel for the holidays and like do I Really Wanna go all the way again in between so are you planning to be in uh Hamburg between Christmas and New Year well if there's a Congress and yeah it actually looks a little bit like there might be one okay so Aaron was going to join this one oh yeah there you are so we gotta give people at least until five past here [Laughter]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "hey Aaron cannot hear you sorry I'm late my laptop was re-imaged and I lost all my state so oh no well application State the actual okay those things are preserved but still it it surprises me at times like this one's like oh yeah I need to go and dig out the coordinates to log in order foreign let me know that he has a meeting that's running over for normal work so he'll be probably joining at 8 30 at the half hour 25 minutes cool Brian General ah okay I was just trying to look at my doodle but it's like uh wait hold on who who merged this PR onto architecture ah no gory no no no no no no sorry foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "maybe let me create a little note document anything okay so it seems like Fox are coming in welcome everybody um should we give people another minute or two should we get started to start it maybe I mean this is not exciting stuff where we need to have raw I mean yeah it's just an interim where we and now instead we were going to try to wrap up not right we were going to wrap up all of our remaining issues that's uh no pressure at all right okay um is there any volunteer to share this screen to drive or GitHub today please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:11",
    "text": "oh I can before I have a bit harder time I have a bit harder time doing it in Meet echo on this machine I have um yeah I I can do it thank you Michael it's greatly appreciated if I figure out how let's see tears of hands okay I have no idea how to do this um you should be able to share your screen top left top left yeah top left next time yeah yeah camera and mic icon and I can grant you permission and then you really want to share your screen that did not change you did not change your mind in the last five seconds exactly so now it's recursive great yay okay all right let's do this nice nice so we just go through the PRS from top to bottom yeah can you please zoom in a little bit more because woman oh what did I do this like that is that okay I am oh yeah we are yeah I suppose but okay um yeah right let's take the first editorial updates okay and we want to merge this this was a little knit and the question what was that anyways"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "yeah okay well I should just commit Michael's thing okay you commit the next let me just let me just oh yeah okay yeah and then I guess we can merge this because that was just a need and everybody else seems to like it and then the other one is based on importance yeah exactly that was uh yeah this one in the comments that you skipped Tommy but I guess that was deliberate right yes yes that's correct um I I so I think it's partly overtaken by events because we also had some other issues around the message framework API and clarifying that it's terminology and everything comes from the API document and so I think that it we have enough references now to the API document that it's clearer tell me your audio was cutting out cutting out a little bit I'm not sure if that's for everybody yeah sorry as well I will speak more slowly in the review about uh the framer part being a more event based than the rest but you'll deliberately uh because there was a reference for the the API in that section so I I think that covered it so I guess you left it because of this Okay so should we merge it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "hello yes okay and let's do that let's merge it and go to the next damn nice uh introduce racing more clearly oh I saw that this should be very easy part of the implementation draft review and it's nice and short text and adding more references any comments anybody anything to discuss or should we just merge right here the references went down a tree racing I think the point was to make this more easy to read for somebody who hasn't heard of this before right yeah yeah I'll go ahead and merge it buff thank you for doing this then we got reference V6 address considerations for temporary local property ah this was something from Fernando I think about local addresses in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "in all this uh V6 concept this is what we have and I think yeah that was one issue that Brian has put this reference to the draft and I several of us believed that it could be good enough to reference RFC 8981 instead so maybe he could fix that I I can try to create a a code recommendation okay so I I guess I'm probably all good with merging this was this reference is fixed right do do we want to do gory's suggestion um just moving the reference up move the reference up just for example temporary addresses and then add the reference I also like gory suggestion because it's it's just very crisp yeah oh yeah with the phrasing for instance temporary addresses second yes yes yeah I think so it yeah okay so let you do it and go on to the next pulley up here um yeah I'll work on fixing that then so many thanks metadata only messages okay gory had a comment see yes about raw"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "I agree with this I also felt it's a bit weird when I read raw bites but I didn't have a better idea but I think he has a good idea so he was suggesting to write they contain no data to be processed at the application layer instead of saying zero bytes overall data shall we do that yeah I told that I'm just earlier up in the paragraph So it probably is easy yeah so if people agree with this I can turn this into a command here and merge it I mean it's a I think it's a nicer phrasing but I think this is okay um I I was I I was slightly wondering whether the phrasing of bites was not was the right way because it seems to imply that the only way of getting data is is there's a byte array rather than as a structured object and so this is specifically saying that this is saying the office yeah I also would say no application data uh it's also fun what what I'm a little bit puzzled in this connection is what happens if you for example have a framer that chops up uh the whole message and just turns it into um yeah metadata uh on the message object and really just consumes all the bytes but on reading or on on sending or receiving on receive in this case that's okay I mean that's like you can have for example if you were a server an HTTP server and you were receiving a get request there would be oftentimes no body data and only headers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "and also suspended should be fine you just said all the major metadata uh um on the send and then the framer generates application bytes from the transport hmm number but there's no data is maybe a bit confusing right because there is data in the metadata to be processed by the application right there's just no contains data that the application will or it contains metadata so I'm just wondering if this no data is can be confusing there's no diameter the saying Michael Philip had proposed no application data Maybe that's better that's a that's that's okay yeah because essentially like in these cases there will be bytes at the transport layer but there are no uh uh I guess how do you say other than raw like there's no just like buffer of bytes that are unstructured at the application layer everything is structured at the application layer into message metadata is that metadata or is it just your refer than exposing it as a byte array it's exposed as a structured object so I mean should we be more precise in the API terms because for example in the send call um right there there is a message data and there is a message context so the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "message data parameter itself will be an empty data object and everything will be in the context yeah I think that's a good idea to solve that just in the message data part I think I think the concern I have is that it's phrased as the messages consist of bytes to be delivered rather than data to be delivered which sort of implies it's a byte array rather than something more structured yeah yeah right right it's saying that it is not always like that sometimes you do not have any unstructured bites that sometimes it is all structured um yeah I mean I think maybe um I don't think so can we just change the base to data let me work on a suggestion here um that wouldn't hurt right I mean just change just at least to begin with changing this into Data here I mean who can't have anything again against that hold on hold on okay okay I'll I'll leave you to do it I just canceled yeah give me 30 30 seconds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:31",
    "text": "foreign something like this is not perfect but okay let me refresh should be there now generally consists of bytes passed in the message data parameter much nicer yep and then down below there's one more comment this is a precise way of saying it yeah right and then if we go down here oh okay in so far as the continuous hero bytes in the massive data parameter yes yes oh yes much more precise right it's just like here's the thing yeah do we agree on that Colin what do you think is that clearer uh yeah I think that's clear okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "yeah I think that's better okay let me let me merge those in and just we'll see how it flows okay okay messages themselves consists I actually one more thing um yes I I mentioned that the message properties are passed through the message context yeah yeah adding you're adding something uh one more thing okay just to also be very precise that the message properties go in the message context parameter just refresh it one more time yeah there we go you have it you have it okay yeah yeah good yes magic five four three two one merge it um the green buttons on here it's already being merged no you do it do it now it's you do it yeah done oh my God we can we can go back to the V6 one if you want I okay good I prefer that to multicast [Laughter]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "can interfere with assumption mechanisms that some protocols really rely onto it using this related to see yeah I think that's uh that was the suggestion right yeah yeah that's Merchant five four three two one band I love that button okay so multicast we finished all the easy stuff yeah so this is the one to look at isn't it yep so all right uh you tell me to go up and down and so forth or maybe Philip you want to just moderate and tell me what to do yeah let's do that I don't like that multicast PR uh too much but I think it's after many iterations at least with guns somewhere Yeah so basically uh I piggybacked on Collins PR and had several rounds with um um yeah with other um with people in Philadelphia to to go around so this was basically my hackathon project so what we did is finally we added the remote and um local specifier and explicitly labeled this as marketcast groups to make sure that everyone knows yes that's a multicast group and that's not just the random address and that gets in um special handling for that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "um and on suggest to um of Collins we also now added the TTL for a parameter there to make sure that we you can specify the the outgoing TDL yes mathematical crew here we have a command yeah so was that one uh we had the discussion uh whether we have to require setting the interface there and uh there are some Corner case for example if it's uh if it's um already fully specified by setting the source address you may not need to set the interface in this context or you might have a system-wide configure default interface for multicast so we decided to just leave this to the implementation and don't mention the problems but at least I would as we did in the example further below I would consider that most implementations would just require an interface there okay example further below of that I guess yeah I I think the issue with that is if there's not currently there's no way for an application to tell which interfacing the packets came from unless they're specified uh leave it to the system of default you have no way of knowing what what that was so I would consider that the interface that's coming from is annotated um in the message object in the metadata part is it I mean that would be a a solution but I'm not sure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "audio is pretty bad today I couldn't really understand according I don't know about others yeah um I'm trying to find a working cable to use the ethernet rather than the Wi-Fi um I was saying that that if it was in the message object that would be a solution but I didn't I couldn't I didn't spot that it wasn't the message okay Philip is that written somewhere it's not written somewhere we have to check whether it's in the message object uh but I think this this part of metadata is still very underspecified so far anyway message context yeah my impression was that it was implied to a connection for a unicorn ah okay it's it's it's especially uh it's there so we especially especially said in the message context you can call get remote endpoint and get local on point and as we have the interface in the endpoint specifier we should also make this available during on that way this possibly needs a cross-reference to that okay opinions what do we do with this um so I mean if if we put a cross"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "reference to the information we can get the address from the messages that I think this is actually looking pretty pretty good yeah I have a feeling that what we should probably do is merge it and if it needs things to be added like this cross-referenced and then that can be done with a separate PR ior yeah one sentence that says C-section whatever presumably okay yeah C-section whatever but I mean this message uh context having this I mean this isn't the is this in the API draft you think yeah I mean there is text already there saying this uh inside um in section 9.1.1 there's explicitly uh a sentence saying for message context return uh by sent events and receive events the application can vary information about the local and remote endpoints oh yeah right this get remote and punk at local endpoint so then there should be a reference to this 911 saying that this can be used to figure out where uh where messages have come from which interface right okay then that's a small change to this PR that maybe Philip could just do yeah and we look at it again later and I go on to the issues because I think that's it in terms of PRS I don't know what we do with this one but uh let's maybe discuss the issues first well um so far out of date I think we should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "just close it without merging we thought we were done in 2021 haha this is RFC editor stuff too right like they can help but yeah like making making that fit is going to be more work than starting it over that is that is true but that's I mean we might apply I mean you can try like you could you could try to see what the merge conflicts are but it's going to be longer than that I I'm seeing a lot of changes here about tap steps Taps Taps changing into transport services and with proper capitalization I've been I'm quite sure this is something which we did yeah I think exactly that we've done long ago and that that's a big part of this and they're like Taps do you mean Transport Services I'm like yeah I need transport services yeah the same with these uh tick uh I don't know what they're called apostrops or whatever that probably also fixed but no yeah I think I think we closed this as as overtaken by velocity I believe so I believe we have probably done done these things and then I think the second one we can close is overtaken by 1050 right the second one oh yeah yeah there's three there's three PR's and the only one the only one that's actually mergeable as I understand it is the okay I just closed it with all the command I just did that happened yeah maybe everybody this one is that with a command because Kyle sees it without any further context I don't think that's nice yeah it would be nicer to add a message I can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "fix it sorry we should all we should all buy Kyle beer in here maybe it will cause Kyle to join the call [Laughter] I did a a few of the similar tweaks in Arch and create the pr which Michael agreed with and I merged but they were they were kind of moving removing spaces and adding words where they should have been words like like there was nothing of Interest so that happened behind the scenes you can check the merged PRS if you want to see what it was is closed there's so many yeah just don't look yeah it would be nice to have included the message to Kyle saying thank you sorry for closing well okay I can always do that oh yeah I'm talking something you can put something in this oh yeah you did no I am doing it right now okay thanks sorry for just closing too quickly so we can look through what's left um let's see add examples for ASM and SSM but this is the 1050. yeah so that's going to be close by it and this TCP implementation mapping thing that's something where I had the impression that uh this should be a discussion right so there's this and numbers the other one yeah yeah I was proposing just closing this um I I don't know what do you think if we still need to address this but this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "is essentially the only issue left unaddressed implementation documents um so this was about you know having the consistency between the API and the implementation and what to cover so I made a pass through all the protocol mappings and checking the yeah backtracking it to to the API so we have yeah I summarized if you start from the first bullet there Michael nice okay yeah sorry so for all the protocol mappings we cover the same uh actions except we don't have the connection error for UDP multicast and we have an extra one for for sdtp the priority uh so I don't know if we should align yeah that I don't know if the connection error did not apply to UDP multicast or that was just left out of that protocol mapping uh there is one terminology inconsistency we have the initiate error in the mappings but this is now establishment error in the API so this we should uh obviously fix I think there are only two actions you can perform on a connection that is in the API that is not covered in the protocol mappings it's the add remote and remove remote remote and yeah this is probably okay because I mean for most protocols I guess this does not really have any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "direct action it's possible that we should mention it for mptcp at least how it relates because this you may may be Wonder uh then the Rendezvous we don't cover at all this may also be defined for the events we have a subset that we cover mostly focusing on the connection related events the only one that I thought maybe we should have included unless we you know want to have them all is the the closed event because we have the connection error that may happen when you you close but we didn't have the closed demand uh we don't have any of the send and received events which I think is is fine and then this connection and message properties the only one we have there is the one for sctp the priority one I'm not sure my belief that just ended up there by chance and maybe we should just uh yeah this is all very old and I I don't remember I maybe just wanted to make a start and maybe wrote that and thought I'm gonna write the rest later and never did or I honestly don't know yeah so this is otherwise we don't cover any of them except that we discuss some of them very UDP light and mptcp because there we have the same behavior except you know that we have some uh special properties that we can can relate to so I think that's fine in general I when doing this review I was also wondering about the UDP live division maybe update that description a little bit because it doesn't say what it supports over UDP it only says what it does not support but these were the items that uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "yeah I could detect when cross checking between this uh yeah the API and the implementation in in terms of what we cover so I think if we just decide how we want to deal with each one the actual updates are quite small or non-needed if we say we don't worry about this aspect but this this is the the summary of the the status thank you I don't know you guys are the editors of that document yeah I mean from my perspective I think if we start from the top again is to be numbered instead of bullets and we can talk about them as item one two three and so forth if that's okay sure that would be better probably yeah I think this is easier than so three because then if we leave something and we put it as a command then we can see item six we do later on this way or whatever so it's seven items okay yes yeah so I mean unless there is some reason that the connection error does not apply for the udpr multicast it seems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "like we should add it because it's kind of inconsistent to have it for every mapping except that one I'm not sure actually yeah the others are quite consistent and I would just remove this sctp priority part because that scene we don't deal with any of the properties so that would be my suggestion but uh [Music] I'm not sure what the rest of you think so just these two things but you said you wanted to also do something about UDP lights no no this was for bullet one I mean oh yeah sorry this is my suggestion but I mean the I don't know if the rest of you agree of course yeah so that's the proposal down here number two is just the uh alignment So that obviously we we should do I mean I was not in that when I that was the terminology inconsistency so this we should just fix okay um for three my suggestion would be to leave this ad remote and remove remote out but say something about it for for mptcp I don't know exactly how the relation would be there but I I think that is something you may wonder about if you actually are to implement the multi-path protocol I mean unless somebody says something against I'm assuming that this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "agreement and just putting it here would you be able to make the make a PR to do what you're thinking here sorry now I didn't hear you quite Tommy or connect action sorry could you make a pull request of those things for the for separate for all of them you mean or for the each one in I I mean I can make it perfect uh then we have the rendezvous I think it's fine to leave that out don't let someone thinks that needs to be used foreign yeah then we have the events my suggestion would be that we should mention the closed event but uh somehow it seemed a little bit strange to have the the connection error but not the closed okay yeah and the message properties this is if we just remove this every HTTP one then this I mean that that's awesome yeah so that we don't need any action for foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "and I think we should slightly update the UDP lights because that's read a bit strangely to me when I read it now in this context okay so this would be my suggestions for how to deal with each of them but and you have tacit approval if you have tested approval because there's nobody complaining I I'll upgrade to active approval do it so it's okay we have you and Tommy so you know I totally approved you to do that I can have a look next week I guess that's the I guess that ends this discussion already um at properties that that was the one right so this complete implementation that is an issue that we can close because it's about 608 isn't it this should follow this yeah so it's covered by the other way yeah so we kind of close that okay we'll take it by 608 um and there's nothing else left and so we we could we could also re-review the two small changes for the pull request now just headed this as should suggest you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "can just apply and usually expand is an SS and the first time that's I think that's a good idea indeed yeah scroll down this just should be oh it's already here sorry you just have to say foreign [Music] how about um foreign thank you um move this up before the prior paragraph so that's something to do the question is whether this makes sense to move it up but because uh we always in this area we had this been the API below the text yeah but I mean I also had reading it and that it wasn't sure what these specifiers were related if it had these displays and then had an example of said that the listen call or the initiate call and then talks about the initiate call it would have been more obvious what was going on but just saying you're remote specifier with it just wasn't clear which paragraph it released"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so Colin your audio is good for one half sentence you're going to have to make your comment shorter because we missed yeah the the latter bits yes you should really find that cable yeah uh um just to explain this comment I I think it's odd that we are saying you know in the previous paragraph call and initiate on that pre-connection and we haven't actually shown what the pre-connection looks like yet it's like the pre like if we're talking about here's how you set up your pre-connection that code example is the pre-connection example not what it means to call initiate and send and receive hmm yeah because it makes sense to me to flip that sequence yeah I like my audio is working now um yeah now it sounds better that's not better yeah okay I think it may be just the laptop isn't keeping up with the video uh I was just saying it would make more sense to me if if it said if we had the list of remotes but remote specifier with and then an example then immediately following it you know initiate or listen or whatever just so it was clear which call they related to ah yeah per example but so just swapping the order uh having the example first and then the explaining text um so having the example also should we initiate to listen no run difficult it's not that we're saying that the example should go before the explainer text it's that the example that's there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "does not match the explaining text it matches the previous paragraph all right matches the previous paragraph so now we have at the moment we have first the text and then the example or more or less the the signature and you would like so at the beginning of the section there are two patterns there's one that says you create a pre-connection within anycast with the multicast groups import numbers and then the second paragraph talks about how you call initiate and then you have an example which shows creating a pre-connection with the multicast group so I'm just saying yeah let's put the description of the pre-connection with the multicast group after the paragraph that says you can create a pre-connection with a multicast group and if we have an example after the second paragraph it should be about calling initiate and send and receive on it yeah okay yeah I agree I mean up here right yeah and it would be really helpful if these examples showed the initiate call for example you know or the listen call or whichever code they are down in the multicast examples because we have put numbers further down sure but I I had to read the examples to understand the main text because that call was missing in the main text it wasn't clear how all these you know these examples of remote specifier and local specifier related to the text that was being discussed because the text is talking about how you how you initiate a connection so I would expect it to say you know here's how you specify the remote and here's how you specify the local and then you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "call initiate but that's in a whole separate section away from this text and that here is initiated yeah right and this is clear but the examples earlier where it just has the how to specify the remote or not because it doesn't see what you're doing with it [Music] so what's the solution for all that having just all the possible signatures that are related to multicast before the calling initiate paragraph and then just uh pointing down to the examples to me the fix would just be to um in this in these examples here just show the initiate or listen calls as well either I'll just ditch the X relations here and just leave them to the examples section later and ditch the examples here and leave them to the later section but initiate and listen honestly they seem pretty uninteresting right I mean it's just listen to it on the floor is prepared that they show how the if you go back to the other section this yeah so here right so you have all of these your remote specifier web local specified web and it's not clear what call they relate to the example at the bottom here is showing how you specify the addresses just before you call rendezvous so if there's just one extra line in this example that showed the Rendezvous call it would link it to the text which is talking about rendezvous because currently it's not clear why you have all those blocks of local specified with remote specify with in that section I understand I understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:05",
    "text": "you know it's not incorrect it's just not linked into the text very well foreign who can fix that and how so the Rendezvous call is not really used in any example is it so I think the examples are good and and I understood those quite well and I think the text in the earlier section is good the examples of how you specify the in the earlier section I just where I get confused so what we could do [Music] um is we [Music] um we could revisit the things up there and explicitly uh describe uh what you would say um set for the individual things so like above we had the an airport can be configured with the following identifiers uh going in the same detail for um for for multicast and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "um I think it's actually much simpler okay um so so if I'm looking at the the text right it says calling initiates on the pre-connection creates a connection that can use to send messages and then following that there's a whole bunch of stuff where it says remote specifier with multicast group I've been before with V6 or whatever right um I think I think I agree with Tommy that they should be that the the the the pseudo code should go before the power well possibly Forget before the paragraph you just want something to say you you can create the um addresses to to use with initiate using the following calls or something like that what I wonder is wouldn't it be possible for Colin to fix that with a simple update if it's not so hard to do because I I have a feeling that there is some I don't know lack of understanding on how to do it whereas I think you have a pretty clear vision of how you think it should be I I think it just wants one sentence on the end of that paragraph there which says um the following calls can be used to configure a pre-connection before calling initiate and then the equivalent for the other paragraphs before calling lesson before calling rendezvous yeah Philip um let me add the comments could either end could you just do it here in line as as a commit suggestion I think that's the yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "okay okay I put a comment of you have to reload I guess ah okay you can do if you add a comment you can directly uh say at commission suggestion then it's directly clickable I can do that I cannot work it up nectares but how do I make uh how was that um the plus final thing um the plus I think I think you're on the wrong line you no no you you need just delete cancel this comment and you need to do add a comment to the line that you want to modify and then do the plus minus you're you're on the wrong line so just cancel this comment okay I'm doing that okay now scroll yeah find the line that you want to modify yeah like here's some here it is 749 no no no no no no no dude no go up into 749 yeah all right look at this and then yes and now now just add your text if you want to add a new paragraph you can do it there yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "yeah so but I don't remember how to give it the right style for yes or something like that no um it's it's okay what the same thing that they have the three of down below you just copy and paste that oh you know in in your own comment in the comment you are currently in oh yeah like those see those three ticks yeah those yeah so how many one or two just one just one just one okay like this one before and one at the end uh do we have this indentation in the other text I think we didn't do that just double check right oh yeah probably not no here it's just initiates and and so on and so on yeah we did we don't have it anywhere in the text yeah no then let's let's can we do a back tip pass in a in another PR ere so I'll make it like this can also okay uh do they go ahead and create the back tickify issue I know that the point of this meeting is not to create new issues but I guess it's it's a good issue to be pushed well to the end of uh of the whole process because we otherwise we'll have it again indeed yeah we could also leave some of the consistency checks to the RFC editor right that's practicing I think I'd want to hand them okay yeah because that's like intent to say this should be right I would not want the RFC Editor to have to do that because there's a fair"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "amount of it and it's fairly mechanical and I guess because i'm talking so um confidently about this I'm probably volunteering to do it so anyway my update I'm just gonna put in as a review or can I just Commit This somehow commit sorry I could have done that without review clumsy usage of GitHub sorry for that anyway um yeah I I can say resolve but the idea was to do this in multiple places in the same style right just the following API calls yeah I I'll put some comments in just give me a second okay I mean we don't need to edit this here and now I guess issue 1070 is to go through this and fix all the backticks and it is assigned to me and I I thought the idea was to get this PR to a stage where we want to merge it so they can merge this one even if the back ticks aren't great because I'm going to fix the battery yeah if you had the back takes is a separate thing yeah I was just wondering if you were saying we need to make more additions to that PR well it was just like the thing I just I just committed this uh Small Change of saying the following API calls can be used I think Colin's suggestion was to have something similar before after all the you know for listen and so on yeah it might be easiest to commit it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "and then to another PR because there's so many yeah and then but what is this suggestion here receiving interface so should I just commit this and just merge the complete PR and then somebody makes these small fixes afterwards all right yes I I I I would say merchants and then I will do another PR to fix it up okay oh okay I think that's what I wanted to hear move this up this is also something that hopefully Colin will remember so then I'll just merge this dude because gory wanted to speak up or maybe just click the wrong button reloaded this one Gary did you want to add something yeah before I merge the multicast pr ior yeah it wasn't on the look up PR so you can go ahead and do all that oh okay okay I'd be routing through interface trying to find the same annoying problems that I fixed in architecture and I found quite a few of odd words and things so I made a PR that touches a lot of places with a lot of small things somebody should step up to um review that really quickly and merge it before it all gets out of date with someone else fixing something else probably kind of just take a look together I'm looking at it right now oh that's pretty long oh man yeah yeah yeah but there I can slowly scroll through it but top to bottom then I mean I have no opinions on this stuff it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "all just words that were kind of inconsistent with other bits yeah I'll just slowly scroll through it as I read it and if somebody sees something where they go no then then speak up uh our requests and responses Capital words in the API yeah I wondered that sorry um I didn't I don't know if I wanted to do that that probably made it worse rather than better yeah I don't I don't see those as terms we have yeah yeah um okay let me um just fix those ones okay so let's assume that these are not capitalized anymore yeah I I can send it comment for that okay I just want us to basic yeah let's just fixed as you do a remote or local but yeah you capitalized a lot of things in for interface and point so I'll leave it to Tommy to just fix the capitalization to whatever is right yeah sure spmtu given the same selected when provided with the same set that's just an English thing need to provide just a must in ETC because I thought it really is yes yes I saw that that's uh yeah somebody being trained to avoid these keywords [Music] all to same thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:08",
    "text": "[Music] somebody's got a jazz band rehearse in the background uh there's one about the security handshake it doesn't quite okay it was listed one item makes sense no no no no no no there's a there are other things there's identity challenge callback there's a whole there are two things it is not a list of one item but there's the other item seems missing yeah no no no no no uh I have go ahead and reload I have a um suggestion that fixes that break okay here we go an international breakage of lists for myself yeah well yeah it's down below okay I'll add that to the batch I'm confused now with where this begins and ends but if people are happy with that I merged that in I yeah yeah I guess this is okay probably just I mean yeah thanks I think I think Tommy already added it to his badge I did it's already committed okay cool Okay click faster Michael pretty fast come on okay local endpoints being separated on points yeah there's not just capitalization stuff to rest yeah it seems yeah I think the rest of it's good now transport system yes oh you found you found the tap system I thought they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "all wrong the wild taps okay uh you guys just tell me when I suppress the merge button yeah now some things are still capitalized some are not that's okay I don't somebody tell me yeah I mean I'm happy with somebody to um merge this and I I have no opinions about any of it I just want to do better just just let's do it I guess if also is happy with somebody emerging this do it exactly five four three two one okay look at that we have a list of no open pull requests yeah and I think one issue right no two issues three three why didn't ASM and SSM get closed by the um well it wasn't marked as being closed by it but it sounds like Colin still needs to take one more pass at fixing it so I think we should leave the issue open and Colin will make one more PR to clean up oh that's okay but that wasn't about ASM and SSM terms I think well it's okay a lot of things yeah I see it's commented here this uh yeah I think these examples of like I think that things has been overcome by events do you call Colin do you want a new issue to clean up the multicast exactly I will create a new issue this one has been overtaken by events yeah great great I'll do that I had taken by events and make oh somebody's faster okay should I create this is somebody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "else creating the issue I don't want to have two issues I'll leave you guys type fast so I'll just let somebody else yeah I think Colin said he was creating one okay so it sounds like that we um oh I just I just wanted to point out I'm seeing a raised hand yeah right I I didn't want to put the mic on because like orange um so question on like anybody who knows this I can go look it up in in the docs we have a bunch of code blocks in the API that are currently delimited with three squiggles as opposed to three back ticks has that been overtaken by events should I do I have to play with the figure out what we should be using I know what you mean yeah I don't know if nobody knows then I'll play with the tools to figure out what the right thing to do is so I will not have to backtick if I think done by the end of this call okay what about uh um properties to implementation protocol mappings uh PR okay so nobody has created the issue for Colin I'm gonna make this now multicast"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:38",
    "text": "put them so in the meantime I have found an answer if you use the triple squiggle you get a code block that looks like a code block if you use the triple back tick you get lines of code block so I think we want to take all the triple back ticks and turn them into triple squiggles so I will do that oh somebody said let's all Drop video so the audio gets better but I didn't know that I mean that was a few minutes ago okay I didn't see that as it was sharing my screen yeah but somehow address off itself even without okay folks so we have a back takes issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "we have a squiggles issue um do we do are we still getting a PR for the properties to implementation protocol mappings issue that is still open on implementation or is that going to be later as well I'm not sure if Anna was gonna put in a few or for that or yes but not during the call I think not during the call okay yeah so I think the actions are Brian is doing backticks Colin is updating multicast and Anna is making a implementation PR and once we do those three things we will be done foreign do we need another call to review the output of those things or can we do it asynchronously seems pretty minor to me but I don't I mean I I would be happy if we had like a whole call just to like look at the tick fixes that I'm doing okay careful what you asked for I don't think we really need to do it I think we can get these I think we can get these done and then push revs at this dock next week do we want to say like Monday the 3rd is the deadline for for this can we Anna calling can we get is that I mean I'm happy to do that because I'm probably going to finish these tonight but yeah I'm hoping to get them done just straight after this call cool cool that'll give us two weeks before the the document submission deadline which is good so um early next week but uh okay okay so we could do like the what the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "10th of October [Music] so so what's the goal we push updated ones do as a sort of proofread Insanity check if there's a complete thing and then then yeah so yeah my take is uh next step is Shepherd write-ups and we you know there's going to be more review of this by other people I think we are we this call has been well into the RFC editor kinds of uh fixes which are just gonna head off people nimkicking stuff when we go to the broader review so it's it's time well spent um I would say that the in parallel with these fixes we should start lining up the Shepard reviews Shepard write-ups I'm getting a lot of background noise I don't know if you guys are yes oh thank you yeah I think that might have been Colin um uh so I do we have Shepard write-ups for the other two docs yet let me pull up that on the data tracker I might as well can I share my screen so we can all look at this together I think I've forgotten how to do that here we go share screen yes we sorry about that uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "okay so let's see let's uh everyone can you make this a little bigger piece because I cannot read it say when no yeah yeah maybe one more that's good now to me okay so um so for this document uh just so I don't have to jump around the screens too much I so uh um Rhys reminded me that last August uh we had a conversation about Shepherds where essentially non-authors in this group agreed to pick up shepherding responsibilities for each of the docs so uh but then we didn't write it down on the data tracker page so we could do that now um so who uh Rhys can you remind me who signed up to do the implementation draft yeah from from my notes and from our uh August 2021 interim notes which I realized a long time ago it says Brian was uh volunteering to do implementation Brian are you still uh still willing to volunteer I I yeah yes thank you uh awesome okay and um then let's uh go back to the tap stocks and uh for the API we who do we have who agreed to do the write-up for API and don't say that I know plus the one for interface Anna you still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "open for that yeah that's okay thank you I'm having a UI failure what's your last name on a um damn it what's going on here there sorry about that okay and Arch and Arch is Michael yeah now comes the embarrassing part where I admit that I've never written such a thing probably not hard I've seen you can do it I've done any advice on how to do it or anything there's a uh there's a page you're not the first person in this situation um it would have to hunt around to try to find it but um maybe Reese have you looked at it more yeah I I have a I mean I have a little cheat sheet I wrote for myself in 2018 and I can't send that to myself if you could send me that yeah that would be fantastic awesome thanks a lot yeah I'm sorry let's send it to all three of the Shepherds just so everybody's working from the same set of notes um I mean I think if if you are filling out a Shepherd right up now generally when you go to fill it out it pre-populates the kind of questionnaire to fill out and they have kept updating that um and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "that's updated a couple times in the past couple years so I would just go off of that um I've done this uh way too many times in the past couple years so it's just just follow the form um it's fairly straightforward share that um a link to that page with the questionnaire you said this is on the isg uh site if you actually just do it um if you're trying to fill out a Shepherd right up if you click on the button in data tracker it takes you to that ah okay it's changed a lot since uh since I yes last day which was a long time ago so yeah if you are a Shepherd there's the like the edit Shepard write-up button and if you click on that it gives you the current thing and it updated on July 4th 2022 and so you just go through that questionnaire and you can upload it as a separate file you can just fill it out in data tracker cool so just you know if uh uh Michael since you haven't done this uh before it's really representing sort of the level of consensus the sense of technical completeness are there any sort of like you know controversies or concerns that the isg should be aware of and so it doesn't have to be super long or detailed um uh but you know because we've these documents are not controversial in this working group so I think that it's really more a matter of sort of describing sort of the reality of the situation so um but then sort of the real responsibility of the shepherd Beyond doing the write-up is to make sure nothing falls through the cracks as uh we get feedback from the isg and the ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "review so it's uh the responsibility of sort of um not necessarily responding but just sort of making sure that authors or you know the subject matter experts uh respond to comments as they come up so we keep the process moving along foreign Menken and I wrote the first draft of the shepherd responsibilities and I've never really updated sort of my cash so it's probably evolved a bunch since then um but that's sort of my take on the role we probably should put the author's discussion somehow into this show report uh that's a good point uh I think we uh um we have that note that we ran by the isg to try to sort the issue at maybe just in uh I don't know if that went to the Taps list if it's in the public record somewhere um do you remember Rhys whether the uh yeah but among the offers so it was all and yes I believe um let's see but did we have an actual I'm not sure we had an actual sort of oh yeah we had a summary of arguments for having our offer account as we have it uh let's see who needs to include that in a write-up it's for interface right which would be well well I think that you know we we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "made some tweaks to the authors for all three documents I think just maybe citing the issue was discussed in the in the author list represents the uh the consensus of the authors and the other contributors on uh um how to handle this it's true because we don't want to we don't want to have this discussion again with the isg it'll be a different isg we have one document with more than five authors and the other documents are good anyways because they have five authors right right I mean that's really the substantive matter is that it it shouldn't come up but the reason that it's those other lists are smaller is because we did a real scrub and uh and uh and it was sort of a collaborative effort across the three documents foreign okay um so is it possible that this is our last interim gosh you guys want interims on the mapping documents in the future but yeah I suppose out there right maybe there's a uh um there's the what do we do next discussion yeah yeah unless we decide to have another session at an ITF meeting but we are apparently not doing in London but who knows maybe next year did you reply to the Secretariat's inquiry about whether we were going to have us oh I did not reply now uh it said something like if you're not having a session no action is required uh okay good all right sorry Brian were you gonna say something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "um like so the deadline was what Friday right yeah if we I mean if we ask nicely you know we just had an interim and realize that we're ahead of where we needed to be we probably should have the um the I don't know who's decided to travel and who can travel or who can't travel or whatever but um and we've decided to go ahead and have the thing Can we pretty please get a a slot I think we did that today they would be slightly crossed with us um if we did it like a week from now then they would be then the answer would be no right yeah but I mean do we have anything for a session right it would be what's next helpful if we if we had like documents or whatnot but yeah I would prefer to do it later um I I think you know what what we're going to end up doing now is like we publish these documents we get the a you know Shepherd write-up ad review and like I think we're gonna we may need another interim just to process idtf last call and AD reviews and stuff like that right um so it may make more sense to do the what do we do next when these are really often the RFC editor queue and we're really kind of done done on them yeah I buy that that makes sense yeah Corey go ahead I was kind of wondering whether we asked the area directors for um a brief update in tsv area and noted the fact that we were thinking about doing this extra work as part of that update I mean we want to say that our stuff leaving the working group and it will have done out and we want to say that we will plan to do more and we should so maybe tsv area perhaps is an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "area where we could talk that's a great idea I don't think we're ready to have a working group meeting to talk about what next um but it's probably time to start telling people if they have thoughts on it that they should show up at the working group uh list go ahead Martin yep so we elected not to have a tsv area meeting this session well looks like you better contact the Secretariat and uh beg for forgiveness uh foreign I I don't see any downside in a little time passing before uh we have the conversation on what to do next um and um we can share an update with the um with the appropriate mailing list uh on what we're doing um you know direct people who aren't tracking the Taps mailing list that you know maybe now they've got a reason to tune into the ITF list if it turns out that there's something explodes there um I'm unable to travel for ITF at this time so um you know my ability to support will be remote at best so I don't think that that should be determinative for any of the uh the topics that we're talking about just letting you guys know um so uh how about uh write up timelines um yeah well we've said we're gonna do the docs um what by the 10th of October right that's the last I mean we had the two short PRS are done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "and honestly she'll have time to do hers next week but frankly I don't think that there's anything that's going to come out of these uh PR's yeah fair enough though right now except except as there's a conservation of cycles that if we've got you know uh uh the you know yeah yep thank you uh but it's also the run up to ITF and um so I guess let me ask you Shepherds um do you feel like you can commit to getting it done before the ITF or should we try to pick a Target data after yep I can do that before I jump it's fine yes definitely okay great well then uh why don't we just Target um say the uh like the Wednesday before ITF um wow also good which is probably that's like the first of November basically right yeah let me look at the calendar here [Music] first as a Tuesday okay good second doesn't want to say yeah cool okay um second of November it is this is very exciting we've only been working towards this what uh it's going almost 10 years when did we start when was that we're not going to look at when we started that's not it's both uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:06",
    "text": "it says I probably have it in history somewhere um uh well let's oh yeah Taps the first Taps draft was 2018 but that's not I mean the 20 like that I have uh 2014. became a working group on sept in September 2014 it says yeah in October 2014 was the first draft of of 1895. but it was a year so it's 2013 so it's only been nine years isn't it only okay nine years well we're not done yet we're not done yet and to be clear at the boff we explicitly said we weren't going to do what we just did which is right which was published in API information about how to implement it like we let's tell you something about the value of Boss yeah and for the past nine years we had kept that promise and today we have failed to keep that promise the Bible must have been in November 2013. that sounds right um because time is uh April 14 is the first buff and um July the second Jeff it's been a while yeah we're all sort of consistent with my rule of thumb for working groups that it's five years for an easy one ten years for an architectural one you know come on all right well uh all right we'll take it to the mailing list then and I suspect we'll need an interim to talk about uh review comments um and but let's I don't know when the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "review is going to actually happen so it's probably too early to schedule it now yeah yeah sounds good excellent well nice well I'll see y'all at the next interview bye all right thank you everyone"
  }
]
