[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "if you try if you want if you know how to use it you know there's a new tool in mythical pascal that we can log here and then from the mobile phone we the presenter can can ask for permission to control yes yes i mean you do that yes if you want to do it that way i will just i will just pass you the ownership or you will load the slide yourself uh no i'll i'll try with logging from my phone and then i'll i'll send the request when i present and you should see a request yes exactly i should see i should see the you asking to present a slide where that you selected okay we we start um so this is um the uh ietf lp1 workgroup meeting we have just one hour so it's very very short time so we will try to move on quickly so remember that this session is being recorded with the mythical tool so the it's a bit unusual as a meeting so first first um the the usual itf best practices still apply whether you're you're at home or you're in the room and uh more specifically uh we attract your attention to the uh bcp 25 about anti-wristband procedure so if you feel that there is some a response going on then you need to contact the onboard's team and there is a link on this page and then obviously as usual if you're aware of any ipr on a subject which is being discussed today whether it's your ipr or somebody else apr please mention it or during the meeting or after the meeting and as i said it is a bit unusual for a number of reasons first yes we have this mixed environment where we have where we have in-person meeting people and remote participants and then the the other unusual thing is we have the youngest participant of our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "working group we have theodore so alexander will not be with us but uh almost but the heart will be with us and until though his new son will be uh with us as well in the art so if you're interested just your mic because we lost you a little bit oh that's mike i think it's nothing okay i can move on towards the mic it's very unusual this mic normally works fine okay if you're in person please uh join the mitico using the inside tool and that's basically the lightweight mythical and what's important is when you want to join the queue you don't join the cube by just going to the mic as you did before you need to click on the mythico this is really important because that will let the not taker uh see you your name and uh so so it makes things easier and then the chairs can observe the cue whether they are inside or not if you're on site please keep your audio and your video off um remote participants uh it's as usual so so uh keep your audio and video off because we could turn you off but it's much better that you do it by yourself and preferably use a headset so there is no loop with the the sound in the room and then again alexander will not be with us but a thought for the new dad and welcome theodore so um you've been there for almost two days now so you know the usual resources so the you get the agenda the preparation for mitigo but hopefully you've done it before but if you need any assistance then you've got this url here now for the minutes we have two volunteers that's dominique and events so it's here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "they're joined lcc value uh and i will try to take some notes as well for remote participation you can also type on the chat on the left of the screen and that's bridged actually with our zulip experiment so you will find people on jabber you will find people on the chat on the viticulture and people in zulip all of them connect interconnected together unbridged so agenda from the agenda that we published there is a little change alexander is not with us so we will skip his session and in the end we give more time to to the the discussion on the mesh that you will find on the next page so this quick administrative year discussion by juan carlos right now on the compound act document which is ready for publication then lauren will talk about the yang data data model then we welcome digo to speak about the chicagfox and now and then that's where the most the more discussion piece of this meeting starts it will be uh pretty much 1 35 we will have carlos talking about uh check on 82.54 and and after the interest where we we started discussing the issue basically be more specific on the role of device and app what that becomes when you have a mesh peer-to-peer and based on that lauren will will give us information about a new draft which is which will be or has been just now published where effectively uh it's chic is employed of our mesh and how to structure the rules in that kind of case status of the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um well not much change we are very close to publishing to sending for publication the the compound and document and the iot is not far behind uh young data model is mostly there as well so we are very close to completing most of our items and that's pretty much it in the interest of time i will skip directly to you um do you want to try to propose slides one colors to see if you can join this temple on your phone hi uh actually if you can share them then i can request to control them on my phone oh okay i can shine push control to you i mean no worries so let me let me do that so let's see okay so now i'm requesting i guess control i don't see your request let me just give it to you it's quite easier so you should have it now okay yeah oh works perfect so hi everyone juan carlos suniga uh village cisco and this is an update on the lp one chic compound ack document that as you heard is now on the shipper's review so um i'm going to get right away into the the comments that we got from yes we have an issue on the remote is we are not seeing you actually we are seeing eric and lauren but we are not seeing you okay there's the other camera but yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "that's good yes that works okay please continue sorry for that otherwise you can you can type mythical on the on the chat and then ask them to switch the the camera if you want because there's two cameras one pointing to the public and then one pointing to the to me so the one that's pointing to you is actually was actually pointing to too long so you returned it it's almost good we could turn it a little bit more we see you you're just on the left let's see if you go nearer no no that's the wrong direction towards the lord i don't think you can move but you can yes it's good that that works yes that's much better thank you sorry for the impact no no worries thanks thanks so um so we we got a few a few comments uh from pascal on the on the sherpas review so the first ones are easy uh the document uh is now clearly indicating that it updates rfc 8724 and the tag then uh also we added text to to the abstract and introduction about the clarifying that the document applies only to the connector part of rx rfc 8724 the first long one that it was a little unclear is the text we had some text about the placement of window number zero and of course for us as implementers it was easy but now we understood that it wasn't very clear the the text itself it was referring to to one of the of the requirements on the on the document is the order of the windows have to be uh specifically from the lowest to the highest and therefore if ever you include one window number zero there's a specific place where this identifier has to go so then i think we cleared it up we have we added a new paragraph specifying exactly what we meant by that and and this is not only to comply with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "the requirement about the order of the windows but also it helps uh differentiating with padding bits if ever these are uh included then there was a comment about uh a sentence that was uh not clear to understand and looked like it was copied in full and indeed it was a copy-paste error so we omitted the the old text and we have just the new text twice and therefore there was no no difference in between the old and the new now they all is actually the the one from 87 24 so it's clear that uh what what is the updates no for some reason we lost the big screen i see it in the in the little laptop but uh okay so maybe can you under the queue so you can make a sign to juan carlos yeah yes okay so so so let me let me just go through this slide and then we'll take the question from dominique the last the last point is the the flagging the new behavior for the all zero usage since uh uh the the receiver already had um basically when you send the icon error the receiver could we we know that we could lose a message but that we added a new behavior on the on the sender about the choice to send or not the the chic ack depending on let's say network conditions so i think uh we can take the question from dominique before going to the next slide hi yep well yeah actually i was going to ask if you wanted uh questions in in the middle of the presentation or at the end up to you um i think uh we we only have one more slide then it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "about next step so we can take the question now okay yeah i i just wanted to mention that i just read the new version the list and yeah sorry it took me a while to to work on this for several reasons but uh i still have a few comments on the text um like there are a few typos you take so if you allow me if you tell me where the source was located i can submit for requests to the text and then we can also discuss the more material issues um on the mailing list maybe like the new paragraph you inserted uh on the position of the w uh zero uh windows zero has a few mistakes in it i think it says the first uh the paddock bits are not confused with the window number after the first hack something where it should be the last and few things like that but you know nothing serious but i think the the text needs a little bit of polishing still so if i can contribute i'll be more than happy yes please please please do uh it's true that uh there's a couple of paragraphs that were added to to respond to this uh comments but those paragraphs are are indeed new so if they're if there are corrections or uh anything we can do to enhance the the text please please send us the comments uh dominic on the list it will be the best okay another comment i had just mentioned in my first review was about uh distinguishing the the new compound back with the abort message and and so you provided a few lines that tell that somebody else they hit the profiles must tell houses they are uh distinguished uh and so it's kind of pushing the resolution of the problem to somebody else so i left when i read your text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "to that the lp1 rfc i'm sorry the lore one document is already published so if you're telling now that the application document to a specific technology must specify something then it now means that the one guys cannot use this new extension or maybe have to write another rfc or something so i think we could solve that issue in this document rather than pushing it to somebody else what do you think um i think we can add i'm just thinking what would be the procedure because it's true that this document somehow uh updates the the baseline that already was used by laura want to produce their profile so it's true i think it'll be too too heavy to do an update to the lora one for this but we could add an annex perhaps you know to for technology specific uh details uh that that's my my first hand thinking but of course it'll be up to the group and and mainly i guess that the lower one guys but what would be the best okay now we see the line but yeah i think it's a fair discussion to have on the on the list okay um yeah so i i need still uh some thinking but i think we can we can do something easier on on the existing uh technology application drafts okay yeah give me a few hours of your work and maybe a few days of uh clock time and i can propose some things all right so so then i guess that uh the last slide i had is on the if we had a res all the all the comments but seems like there is going to be a couple arriving that that are relevant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "and my understanding is we we are going to have the shepherds uh transferred also to alex who's not right now here so probably the best would be to to take it to the list and then uh don't we don't push the button right now so we wait until uh until we clear these comments uh from you and and we hear from from alex uh on his uh shepherd's review to push the button yes it might be not to discuss but if i like because of the performer we might again switch uh shepherd and maybe now but laura is got also probably uh as can i she she's willing to to do the shape okay so we we are exploring that because might be away for a few weeks and if you get ready early that waiting for us returns okay all right so thank you very much i think i'm over my time so oh and by the way i like your idea of doing nx for the already documents published documents so uh in this case if you if you take that approach please mention that you update the lorawan rfc as well right because you will be proposing how the raw one rfc applies this draft okay thanks so the next level is is you actually presenting the young guy so i will be pushing the slides and you will be doing the next slide right okay yeah okay so i will present the the young model for the she crews so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "it's a work that has been done for many many years and now i think we reach something very very nice and we next slide please we let's go so this young model is uh as a new version now to to say that it's uh really the last one and it's cover only what has been published until now it's mean rfc 787 24 and 88 24. so inside we have the rule definition so for the three kind of rule we have compression fragmentation and no compression we have also the identifier that i use in the sql and as we say component hack and aom are not in that model but with young we can easily augment the model with new features next slide so here is a vision a global vision of the young tree so we see the different kind of rules so what has changed since the previous version is especially the naming so we have a naming that is closer to the rfc so it's easier to recognize which field is in correspondence with the rfc and we also add something that is called max interleaf frames that is also specified in 8724 and say how many frames can be on the air and it can be something smaller but what the d tag allows so here are all the the changes we have we have also made some relation between the different variable and we are able to for example for compression to say this field is only needed if we are in account error or in another mod so next two slides please so you can go to the next one and now what i will present more is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "what we have done at the acaton to to test this so it's visa carton and the previous one so the data model has been implemented in open cheek and we are able to validate using a yongsan this model on to produce some json version of of the rule so here is some simple rule we we have used and in the next slide so next slide please we have the json representation of these rules and if we look at the size of the global rule here it has been cut is about 2 500 bytes to represent the rule so during this acaton we have changed the representation and we move to c bar unused core conf so that's the next slide and here the same rule can be represented in 400 bytes so it's a reduction by six of the of the size which is which is quite nice of course when you look at this is not very easy to to understand but if you go to the next slide we have the same thing in the diagnostic representation of sibor and various few mistakes but what here because it was done during the academy we have correct them but what we can see is that we we have something that is very compact and if we look for example at what is the largest part of the representation or see the qualcomm representation is the identifier for example if you read you see six and then a large number so six mean it's a field id and then you have the reference to to the field id so if we can have very short seed for these values so of course the rule will be uh smaller so the next things we we discover and it's a funny thing about about the rule is that when you do the seed in fact you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "have a reference that is the first entry so for example for rule you have this big number 91 and then when we look at some value that are present in all the rules like rule id length and rule id value they are at a distance of 23 29 or 30 from the the reference which means that in the c bar coding we use two bytes so if we had a delta that was shorter then we will use only one byte to to represent that so of course it's just something funny right now but maybe we will have to discuss on a way to optimize that or i think that maybe one solution will be to when we will do the numbering of sids to change the order and i think it's possible in uh in cocoa because we just have to augment the model once uh starts with a small value and then uh small model and then increase it by introducing new things we can have rule id and rule id length that will be more compact in their presentation so what we have to do now is to check with korkov guys if it's correct so i know that there is some people in the room or virtually in the room that know very well come so we can discuss about that but i think it's quite interesting because we goes to something that is very compact and can be used to manage the rune the rule in a constraint environment okay so if you have questions so that's all for for me okay thank you very much lauren and um i will bring the next uh presentation with uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "diego from chicago can you hear me [Music] yes can you control these knights i just sent you the other ship everyone just tell me to move this light myself um [Music] i am trying to take control of the slides right now i sent you the control oh you're sharing your own deck okay shake over yeah that works okay you should be seeing that and i can control them all right yes that's all good so hello my name is diego vistuba and i'm from nick labs in the university of chile and i am one of the co-authors of the shakeover siegfox uh the ship profile of sigfox and i'm here to i'm here to present the last draft updates that we have done since the last uh iitf meetings so we had we added two major uh changes to this uh draft the first one is that we we added two different configurations for the uplink icon mode on the two byte check header uh these two configurations are parameter configurations you know that all the all the values that we need to define for chic to work and well option one in this case we labeled only option one uh allows transmission of medium-sized packets which are up to 480 bytes long and the second option allows transmission for larger packets up to 2250 bytes long and this is more than"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "enough for us to comply with the ipv6 mto requirements which is 1280 if i'm not mistaken uh bytes so that is one of the two major additions and the other one is the rcs field the reassembly check sequence field in our case for our use cases of the in the sigfox network for rules where the number of fragments in the last window is unknown but we don't know how how many fragments does the lab window contain this rcs field must be used must be present in the at the end of the of the header and it should indicate the number of fragments in that window this number of fragments is of course encoded in bits and it includes the the old one uh well previously we didn't use then we didn't use the rcs field in the ship profile since uh safe fox had it has it only ever connected mechanism and we used that for uh in to check the integrity of the whole reassembly but this uh this new addition of the rcs field makes us avoid ambiguous ambiguity while checking the completion of the of the whole uh chic transmission and uh okay so the next steps for the for the draft we need to of course update the the figures describing these new configurations how they how they look like the ordering of the of all the all the all the parameters and how these fragments would look like while in the in graphic representations and we also uh need to update the shakeover sigfox implementation we have our own implementation to this to test all these changes and we need to we need to to know how these changes uh affect the the the performance of the of the whole protocol so this particular step this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "updating of the cfox implementation has been underway since the hackathon on saturday and we still need to solve more um more issues on that but it's underway and that's it for my presentation thank you so much for it for your attention if you have any questions please make them i would be happy to ask i mean the only question is how close do you think you are to one group do you think you will what what will happen before now and we ask for work with let's go sorry i can't i don't hear you very oh so my question is uh what what steps do you think we need before we go sorry juan carlos here on the q it's uh pascal i know that when we're in the mic because the speakers point to the back it's really hard to to to understand so let me repeat your question uh he's asking uh what is needed before we go to last call so what is needed before completing the the document okay i think that before asking for the last call of this um of this chic profile we need to first make sure that we don't have any corner cases left before because that's why um like uh the last updates of this of this check profile have been taking care of corner cases that we find when we are trying the the the shakeover sig fox implementation so uh we have some we have some tests that we need to do and to make sure that the oh well the new additions doesn't uh doesn't break the the whole protocol and if we are okay with that and if we have if we have clarified all that um all that updates in the in the draft then i think that we that will be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "uh the final updates to the to make this uh another seal to to make to take this tour to alaska thank you very much thank you so much for your attention welcome in the group and presenting um so next is shakeover and biuti and that would be anna presenting um and now you want me to to launch your slides or do you want to launch them yourself now please do it for me okay i'm on it [Music] just head over to you yeah thank you pascal so i'm presenting the version seven of the draft check over and the iot um next slide please come forward i cannot hear you very well oh okay i gave you control now you should be able to move the slidesy yes [Music] [Laughter] okay this is better than calligraphy um thank you to carlos i don't know how my slides are like this but we received the review from carlos thank you very much there are four principal questions the first one is more structural of the of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "document to better represent what is configuration that what is this case so we need to work the structure of the document in the first time then the second question is about the first useless case where we are using chic in the radio link between the device and the and the gateway than not b so this is really the the radio link and in nb iot as in any 3gpp network this link has a protocol stack which already introduced a integrity protection reordering segmentation [Music] on the data transfer so the only thing missing is to put as they have already done rock to put chick in the pdcp layer and and send the ip packet compressed in this in this case the question from carlos was why we are not using fragmentation in this case is because the lower layers of the radial link already bring this feature so we don't really need that pdcp layer makes a fragmentation because its segmentation is done in rlc so so we are only taking the use of feather compression for this use case i don't know if it's clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "[Music] i have not found any any use where we can say even though rlc has already segmentation we can add the use of fragmentation in the pdc player so if you have an input layer in this use case we can discuss if not i go to my next slide [Music] the second question that is really important is about the draft status we we put this draft as an informational draft because it's only giving guidance of how we can use cheek in the 3gbp networks as nbiot we proposed some parameter values following the rfc8724 and 8824 we are not changing any feature or giving new features and the other thing i look for the other 3gpp documents at the etf and most of them for all even though all of them are informational so the question is do we need to make a proposed standard for this cheek over on the iot or we keep the use of informational as all the 3gpp documents at the ietf and my first answer would be why not to put it as a bcp as a best practice something that we normally use and we can use in this way so it's very question for yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:12",
    "text": "so pascal we don't hear you at all but i will simply assume that you were giving me access to the to the mic if we specify a protocol in the same way we specify a protocol over one or six fox it should aim as an incense cities as standards bcp is really not the right thing to use and information and i think it's also the wrong things to do it's not because all three gpp are informational most probably simply because they are pushing we are rewriting under an itf rfc something which has been specified by 3gpp and we want to get them in the the public or whatever under the atf just typically when we import standards out of another ldo they become informational here through the eyes model or it is sponsored but in this case it's like lower one sick fox so at 99.99 it should be standards okay thank you anna okay thank you so that answer my question so the thing is we change the draft status to the standard okay and the third the third important point is that 3gpp use ipv6 and ipv4 so the question is does we are going to develop the solution for ipv4 or do we skip this part"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "do you really know so eric link again so it's more a question for the chair uh to be honest but i'm pretty sure pascal will agree with me lp1 if not mistaken is charted only for ipv6 so the question is clear here the answer is clear so if they are using for ipv4 is they have to develop their own solution yes okay um well let's keep that um thank you very much for your answers um and then after this modification we would like to see if it's possible to go to last call for this document okay i i because we cannot okay air is good just talk okay so um okay so so uh yeah i mean we we are ready to to launch the work group let's go for this document if you feel the the the current release is good we can launch it right after the meeting there's no objection to that okay okay so to do for the chair launch the worker let's go for the nba it's document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "thank you so sorry for the mic i mean i'm using that mic all the time and i never have a private i have conferences all days i don't know what happens okay i can't find the volume button for in the settings so okay uh so our next presentation will be uh carles for shakeover 802.15.4 and mostly the device and raw uh and up rows so i will just share for you and then give you the ball colors yes it's the rendering is very bizarre i okay i i checked my own slides they realized they were kind of broken and so i i uploaded my own pdfs for every group i'm presenting to it seems there is really something wrong okay but i think we if it's for good for you carlos to start with that and do not lose too much time and have discussion about that yeah we can okay that's good yeah i hope we can make it as it is um okay so my name is carlos gomez and i'm going to give a presentation on the problem of using the depth and up roles for using chic header compression over 802.15.4 networks this problem arises in actually when trying to write a draft which is the one on the slide which is precisely about using chic header compression in 15.4 networks so um the terms that an app have been defined for the first time in sorry i'm not seeing them okay i think pascal is sharing and yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:11",
    "text": "so go continue so i see that the screen share is being started uh yeah i'm on it i'm on it where is it oh right it's quite i think it's blocked can you go back pascal to oh okay we have it now yeah sorry i i could not locate this application so i had to do screen share and since i'm using three screen at the same time i scroll my screens sorry sorry sorry so you should be back okay so this is it i'm seeing the shake of the sick force oops slides oh okay wrong for me uh i i don't know if i effectively got them because if you uploaded them directly yes no actually i don't have your slides i need to go and fetch them for the site i mean sorry for that because they did not download a copy can you share your lesson do you have your slide on your desktop yes i have the yeah so shall i share them from my theater yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:10",
    "text": "yes i it to you yeah that's just okay so can you see now the slides perfect perfect okay so then i'm going to give this presentation about the developers in 15.4 networks and the developed terms were defined first in the lp1 overview rfc8376 which defines the terms that an app the dev is the sensor actuator device or object which corresponds to the constrained device whereas app corresponds to application or application server which is sort of network site infrastructure and then the base chic specification rca 724 uses also these terms and then also provides few more details about app such as it runs an application sending receiving packets to from the dev or it's the end point of the application level protocol on the internet side so also in the base chic specification there's the figure showing the lp1 architecture where we have on the left the constrained devices which would correspond to the role of dev and then on the right we have the application server which corresponds to apps also related with these terms there are two other terms defined in eight seven two four which are applying and downlink which are based on the depth and up turns because applying means the direction from the depth to and down link is the other direction so uh in lp1 of course the devon approach fit well the scenario because these terms have been extracted actually from the lp1 architecture so in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "case the chic entity that needs to perform compression or decompression knows whether it corresponds to their app in rfc 724 compression rules for some of the ipv6 and gdp header fields such as the prefix the id or the port are expressed in terms of that and up and not by the position of these fields in the headers such as source or destination so this is done uh as an optimization it has the advantage that the same rule can then be used for compression decompression for both directions so then it means that for example when that has to compress it knows that the source address or port in the packet header uh corresponds to depth as written as the address report in the rules so this is when the the compressor looks for the rule which is the the best match and then in the other direction when that has to decompress then it knows that uh what will be the source addressor port is what corresponds to what is expressed as up in the address port written in a rule so what about now trying to use the same roles for chic header compression over 15.4 networks well there's a subset of them such as star topology networks where the constrained devices may talk to some network site app in that case the the dev and app model fits well uh as in lp1 because it's actually the same underlying architecture however then there can be peer-to-peer topologies for example where in some scenarios we might have two constrained devices talking to each other so in that case we may have the question of well which is the role that corresponds to it because according to the definition both could be candidates to be dead so then how do we use chic compression decompression in this case here are some examples"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "we may have node a on the left which is a light sensor that may transmit a message for example when the light intensity is too low uh to the other node on the right which is not b it is a light bulb and in this case we might say okay let's try to assign deven up roles to these devices so for example we could say node a is dep node b is up and we could write the rules accordingly beforehand and then we might also consider that scenarios may get more complex like adding a node c which might maybe want to control the threshold setting of the light intensity sensor in that case which other roles that would correspond to each perhaps we could start by saying maybe light sensor could be up the threshold control could be dead or maybe we might want to try to simplify things a bit and try to have node a being always the same role such as depth in all its interactions with all its endpoints but then another question arises which is can we ensure that the device will only be there or only be up for all its interactions with all its corresponding endpoints so uh then here we can figure out that maybe we have two main options to consider uh when trying to use chicago compression in this sort of peer-to-peer topologies the first option option one is trying to stick to what is defined already in rfc 8724 in this case its device would need to know whether it is never up when talking to another device and this might need to be for any possible communication endpoint and in that case if we follow this approach the upline and downlink terms would be specific to each pair of endpoints so here we might need to provide some additional context to the nodes so that they know whether they are never up for each potential endpoint"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "option two would be trying to define the use of source and destination in the rules instead of the wrap however this has a drawback which is that it requires one rule for each direction so this might potentially duplicate the number of rules that we are considering and also new terms such as uplink or downlink might need to be defined so this has been discussed in a couple of lp1 interims and by the way uh tomorrow there will be also a presentation on the related draft in in six load and so far i'd say that there seems to be some rough preference for maybe option one because here we rely on we don't need to modify rfc8724 and however option two has also been considered so yeah um these are like two main approaches we may want to think about so what is the feedback from the working group you've got nowhere in the can you see the queue it's slow okay uh yeah i'm just seeing my slides on the screen on my laptop yeah i don't know where to go as if he's here so is i stay here uh yes i think there is another option it's i i like the first one because you uh you keep the same naming but what you can do also is to avoid to have a bidirectional rule and you can have a for example a device with up or the device with down and this way you can change the nature of your rule so now it's symmetric it's mostly because of the b bi-directional in the direction then does it mean you would need to have one direction for sorry one rule for one direction another rule for the other direction yes you can have this and it means that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "you can handle them in different way okay okay any other i'm not seeing i'm just seeing this light on my screen so i don't know if there's any other question or any other yes yeah i'm not sure it's a good idea i'm just throwing some ideas in here the up down and by fields our qualifiers are perfield uh can we use them just for the app and the dev fields and play with them so that we tweak the the meaning of up and def using those so it's not the rule that applies to up or down it's each field within a rule right it was kind of a shortcut long when you said you can have one rule for up and one rule for down we can have one same rule with the field marked marked up and down i'm not sure if this makes sense just ignore if it doesn't uh eric can you share me better now i tweaked my mic but i don't know if it's better pascal you need to understand what you said but anyway so carles thank you for this document i just wonder whether you should make this document broader than the 15.4 because it's applicable to any network where there is not a mastery we cannot say master slave my dev app right so change the title and change the file name maybe next time and good job okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "so i'm not sure if there's any other commenter question i i just see my slides nothing else on my screen can you hear me now yes yes i was wondering if uh because what if defining a format for a 2.54 so i was just thinking is there a way to have just a separate bit in the uh a bit that does not exist today but you would put in a header that would indicate when you send something whether you send it from the perspective of dev or from the perspective of an app basically and so basically the guy who received that would look at the rule and say oh he has said that it's a dev so let me uh treat it as an app you see i mean we're not we're not necessarily working for legacy i mean classical lp so you're doing that for a new application yeah uh yeah i might need to figure out exactly all the details about that and whether it might be an issue or not but yeah i see the the idea so yeah let's definitely take it into account yeah okay do we have any more questions no so next okay can you present the slides so it's here it's just a draft we wrote with even in uh after an interim meeting where we have already this uh the discussion and it was very interesting because in in fact when chic has been designed it was really on on star topologies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "and we we improve a little bit for example in openshift uh what we we have is for example when you are in the car you have to select to which device you have to send this information and it is not specified in the rfc in rfc which is only the way you do the compression but now how you do the device selection so uh we in open cheek you see on the top left of the slide before the rule set of rules we have an indicator that say device id and this device id can be used to send to the real destination it can be for example lp1 on the device wy or here in open cheek we use also udp tunnels so we say you have to turn all this information to that address on that part sorry it's in ipv4 and uh so we we have this and it means that the core can identify the device on the device when it answer either it's use the same technology for example laura one and then laura one is in charge to send it to the core or in the case of the tunnel since it's on internet internet we are using the address of the core the ip address of the core we identify so we can extend a little bit this so the next slide please pascal can you yes so in this in this case we introduce the device ids means how the core can join the device and we can also introduce a next stop but say how the device can join the core and this way we can have something that is uh less symmetric for example we can have devices that have several cores so that's the first case and in yellow we have a okay so for example a device can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "be viewed sometimes the communication can be viewed up or down depending the way you enter you select device and next up in the rule the only constraint in that case is that the rule id cannot be shared between these two set of rules so this is a way to introduce a mesh connectivity between device using shakes so that's just a proposal that comes from the discussion and i think we have to discuss more about that if it's interesting so thank you very much and uh sorry for my mic primer the mic just started to work let me for this meeting so i'll pick up a headset for my next meeting but i i could not reboot or try anything just now so okay so we are reaching the end of this meeting um great thanks for everybody joining online or coming to the to the meeting we've got a number of to-do's um on the sick fox side to uh validate the new proposals uh hot balance you know a little bit of edits and and dominic proposed to effectively uh make upon request if you're willing to to work that way and um the chairs would be asking for the world group last course in the workforce right after this meeting so thank you all and meet you virtually at the next lp1 interim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:07",
    "text": "uh yes"
  }
]
