[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "yeah all right I think we\u0027re gonna get started this is the software updates for Internet of Things suit working group welcome this is the new well by now you\u0027ve probably seen this a few times if please speak up if you have any questions so this morning we have a couple of administrative tasks at the moment we have one note-taker thank you Soren and one driver scribes Thank You T row we need one more note taker can we get a volunteer yes Robin thank you so we\u0027ll be taking notes and etherpad so feel free to deliver out and the etherpad link is right here on the on the slide and also on the agenda here\u0027s our agenda for this morning any agenda bashing okay I want to give a short status report on the the current working group drafts so both the the or the suit architecture has been in working group last call we\u0027ve gotten a decent amount of feedback on that draft the authors have posted an updates and I think Hannes has a few questions that that he\u0027s going to be talking through today the the information model was updated after IETF 104 that we believe that the draft is progressing fairly well we\u0027d like to have some conversation later about the next steps there and we\u0027ve been running a call for working group adoption of the C bore manifest serialization formats which we also have to resolve at this meeting okay so I\u0027m so at ITF 104 we we pulled the room and we there was a lot of support for adopting that draft and no concerns we also took that to the list there was some additional support there and no concerns so I\u0027m at this point we feel that there\u0027s consensus for adopting that draft so we\u0027ll ask the author\u0027s suppose the next revision as a draft IETF suit manifests so thank you I think that\u0027s everything on our status report any questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:12",
    "text": "we can close that oops I think so ah there you go so we\u0027ve done well on some of our milestones but we have a few that are lagging at that the fact that we just adopted the civilization format will allow us to close that one milestone and we believe that the other drafts will probably progress fairly quickly so we\u0027re a little behind but we should be able to catch up I think in the next next meeting or two so that\u0027s it for our working group status so I think the AP is walking from like so roaming janae do if you could just give me newer milestones just as a target I think that sends a message to folks perhaps looking from the outside about when things might be ready that\u0027d be helpful and I won\u0027t really hold anyone to them of course all right so um so let\u0027s let\u0027s start through our drafts Honus would you like to come up and talk about the architecture this okay so the architecture document is very close to completion but there\u0027s still one issue that arrived to arised because of the synchronization with the idea of des and we have received Bren and I went through that liaison text um the new one so we received different versions but the most recent one made some other changes specifically to the status tracker which I would like to point out and would like to walk away with a decision on what I should be doing there to change the terminology to make everyone happy um and I tried to but there\u0027s a long an email from Brenton on the list which goes into essentially a review of the document which I don\u0027t think I would want to go into here because many of the things he points out actually unrelated to what we do here but it\u0027s more consistency check on what they wrote themselves so it\u0027s hopefully something "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "that they would take into account when updating the document but this one is worthwhile to discuss so we had this notion of a status tracker and and I copied or must sort of summarized the definition from the IETF draft and also from the ID document and for the IETF draft it\u0027s a fairly simple definition because the whole so like the bigger picture is is only touched on because most of the things we work on are really the whole manifest and the distribution we\u0027re making sure that the update happens rather than the actual monitoring of that whole thing so that\u0027s why the terminology for the status track in the ITF trough currently only talks about monitoring the firmware update process and so it says for example is um it\u0027s a server side component in these in these drawings in the diagrams which basically retrieves information from the device and then CSUN like where is the update so for example is the device still downloading the new firmware image or is it updating it already or what but is it actually doing that\u0027s what the document currently says and it may be insufficient because if you look on the other hand at the idea of the definition it talks about first of all monitoring some of the properties of the device like what what device version is there like certain attributes what are the some of the software versions running there then it also gets the update because they are the different starts already because the status track has not just a component in the cloud it\u0027s actually and I have a few diagrams here to illustrate this it\u0027s actually also a component in the device itself oh it may be cascaded throughout the architecture so it\u0027s you can see this easily here so and there\u0027s another diagram in the following slide so you have the status tracker that runs here on the device itself but then it talks to a network local status tracker and that may be sort of instructed by a status tracker that is in the cloud so and it there may be another one it cooperates with and so on so it\u0027s um it\u0027s a slightly different sort of architectural model if you will and that that also explains why it talks about these additional components like it riess receives the requests and then checks the need for the update assuming when it\u0027s local for example it has information about what the devices software version is is it running on then it can obviously do that initiates the updates and yeah and I mentioned this already the issue of the concerned the cascade cascading sort of architecture of these status tracker so clearly there\u0027s a big difference between "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "the two and it evolved over time so previously was a little simpler in the earlier version you know it\u0027s what it is and so right yeah that I think that\u0027s a typo so it\u0027s it\u0027s really in the device like shown here yeah so for example you have this IOT device that comes with a Status track has a separate component and then there may be actually multiple firmware consumers on a single device and so for example this could be a device with multiple MCU so each one would have those type of things and in this but Brendon may have a different view on this and then the status tracker so all of them have to start a strictly here and the device itself but that\u0027s happen yeah so Brendon sorry you\u0027re really choppy we can\u0027t hear you so hopefully Brendon can fix this issue um so I\u0027ve been wondering what what should be done to the document to make some alignment and and and to make sure that there\u0027s some meaningful content in in the device so what often happens is and I believe the status tracker is essentially a different way of saying that there\u0027s a device management functionality and what that typically does is you have a normally you have a component somewhere a server side component that the devices talk to because normally like you in in many deployments it\u0027s do you have the device is sitting out there but of course the server needs to know about those devices upfront so he can\u0027t just send firmware updates there when it doesn\u0027t even know that the devices are awake they they are waiting for software updates it needs to know and like what is this device running on is specifically if it wants to target a specific software it and you know so G if more in my target are anticipated by the ITU is poor one as it does not adequately cover a variety of scenarios required by different IOT devices based on differences in I device functional connectivity available poverty et Cie ITA should not try to do too hard to align with it other than avoid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "conflicting and confusing terminal and then there\u0027s a Brendon was saying that there is this sort of tracker may reside inside the status tracker which was hi Hanna still reads we talked about itu-t a cup of sliced bite they\u0027re trying to give some clarifications to which parts of I to of doing work in the Syria because I remember you the stuff soon as I started to enter this relates to a liaison statement that was sent from SG 17 okay thanks hmm so um so continuing what race to race to microphone attack you see from a knight city thank you very much for the discussion for the scissors tracker I just write email from branding and also discussion today sorry for that and I think the discussion in the email it\u0027s very correct I agree with the point and the point you said today is I ETH not be putting too much but I also agree on that so we ITT will be doing our effort to follow the program you raised so we try to capture the issue you raise such as a vintage issue for the developer so I hope you can try to check again for the next division also IQD draft we try to follow the issue you raised okay then there was a Takeshi Takashi is the editor of the iqt document and the VA is on the king to us and we appreciate him being here and so what I heard was that he\u0027s fine with the IETF documenting what we should be and in the i q-- document may try to match what we\u0027re doing because we want there to be common editors and current participants as that\u0027s why we like the fact there\u0027s overlap participation yes that\u0027s our editor or other need them from ITU key yeah I will try to capture your issue and follow your mutation thank you yeah so continuing with my elaboration on how this device management works so so once the device registers and the server knows that it\u0027s there and it the server may query status information about like what is the device running currently so it figures out that there\u0027s an update it knows um what devices need to be updated and of course it also knows their communication behavior because it may not not all of that it as devices will be always reachable so it it deals with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:16",
    "text": "this and so this is a purely communication specific issue but still quite important because after all the updates have to go there and then it the way how the updates are triggered also varies it may be purely like triggered by the server um once the software the new software is there the server could trigger it the update and that would happen or it could be a policy base depending on like if you think about um cars you don\u0027t just do the updates whenever the software is there but obviously have to take certain other aspects into account and so on and there may be some user consent that takes place etc for some of their devices because their functionality may change there\u0027s a fairly complicated process after all many things and what I\u0027m trying to get to is how much of all of this should we really describe because because it\u0027s not core to what we actually do I think it\u0027s useful information to know how these systems work today but we don\u0027t actually they standardize and define the status tracker sort of like the IOT device management protocol in this in this group they are already those protocols so so how much should we accommodate for that to give to read enough and you and and whoever wants to look at that document to give enough information without going off into the weeds on explaining things that are only sort of what really or less frequently relevant for what we\u0027re actually doing in a group itself and so um my my what I\u0027m I\u0027m proposing is we describe some of the stuff that I have on this slide nicer boarding and in the terminology section so it\u0027s more than what we had previously we take some of that into account this specifically is kind of nested aspect because that\u0027s also how things are deployed today not so much the status tracker on the device but for examples that if you you have device management functionality also in gateways today like there are lots of edge computing devices and so you have this sort of device talks to gateway gateway talks to to some server and I think that\u0027s also good to capture what is actually being done today but I wouldn\u0027t go further than that and specifically having the status tracker on a device itself specifically if we talked some really constrained devices that\u0027s rather unlikely and maybe if that\u0027s important there should be a different term for that to avoid are creating the confusion so that\u0027s that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:16",
    "text": "my proposal that would be an update and I could spin that fairly fairly quickly and have a few you review that if you if you\u0027re familiar with this type of work yourself I think that would I would appreciate your feedback you may have a different perspective on on the current deployment situation in that space and I believe that would get us then to the end of this document I think there wasn\u0027t anything is that we really need to make and I\u0027m sure IETF last call there would be other comments and so on but any comments on this proposal so do you have a sense of what time frame we plan to make these updates I could write some text this week and if some one of you could have a look at it to make sure that it\u0027s sound I could do an update of the points that you made sense the the normative part of what this working group does is the manifest so we don\u0027t want to be over prescriptive for anything that doesn\u0027t directly involve the manifest so keep it as high level as possible and so for example in your porch you say what could or should be monitoring advice it\u0027s really more of a code there right because it\u0027s not normal to true and if there\u0027s other types of status tracking it\u0027s unrelated to the soup manifest we want to constrain that because that\u0027s out of scope and it\u0027s in the context here yeah so yes keep it as high level and as flexible as possible okay yeah you second set enough context when people understand why the student manifest does what it does and how it fits into our content okay sounds perfect yeah um so I\u0027m not I\u0027m not aware of any other requests for changes is anything that comes to your mind something that I have to have to do will be resolved by these comments yeah okay okay thank you so so pregnant we\u0027d like to have you jump in the queue and give a quick status updates on the information model I\u0027m not sure if you\u0027ve resolved your audio issues but do you want to give it a try again so jump in the queue alright "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:21",
    "text": "Brendan Cap\u0027n how are you able to hear me okay yes okay so yeah for the for the information model it looks like there are a lot of changes but in fact most of it is clarity edits adding some cross references and replacing numeric identifiers with named ones that I did add two more significant edits those are the result of a review by a security engineer in arm the result of that was a new threat that I hadn\u0027t considered before which is extra code following the code covered by a digest so this is what happens when the payload that\u0027s delivered to a device is larger than is specified in the manifest when the digest doesn\u0027t cover the whole thing and for whatever reason that still gets written into the device so the solution to this is to digest past the end of the firmware cover the whole available space and use that as the firmware digest so I\u0027ve added this as a recommended security requirement not a required one and then there was a new use case the addition of delegation of authority and a usability requirement associated with it which was the ability to deliver a delegated signing key with the manifest and that is all for edits yeah so I\u0027m so Brendan at this point in time do you feel like there\u0027s more work to be done on this draft or do believe that\u0027s ready for working group last call have barring any further comments from the from the participants I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything else to do can you repeat that statement I said barring any bump Terry I think it\u0027s ready I\u0027m hearing that he\u0027s thinking Brendan can you just type what you said into jabber maybe hold on okay yeah so following this meeting will will start working group last call on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "that drab so up next we have Brendan back with Steve manifest so we\u0027ll see how this gets next slide please so I just want to do a quick overview to set the stage of why we have a change to the manifest model from a descriptive one to a behavioral one are you guys getting anything I\u0027m saying no okay wonderful I\u0027m sorry guys I\u0027m traveling and I have a very poor network connection okay so just to follow up on the reasons that we\u0027re changing from a procedure from a descriptive model to a behavioral one these are the reasons devices need to be updated next slide please [Music] IOT updates should be easy but they don\u0027t end up being easy because of having many possible actors a diversity of update models and memory models met multiple functional functional units and multiple security concerns how do you get talk about some of the points that he gets his so Brendon we\u0027re gonna have Hannes go through the problem statement slides and I\u0027m at least and while you work on your audio and that will try "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:23",
    "text": "again look you let us know when you\u0027re ready yeah yeah come back and view it you ready yeah that these audio problems sometimes happen huh um so as you\u0027ve seen also from like we had written some of those scenarios in the architecture document notes elaborated on it in the information model document you have the wide range of different IOT devices and while sort of the basic scenario is very simple where you have a single MCU you have a single firmware image and that gets installed and everything is is cool that\u0027s not necessarily all the cases that we have to deal with if you open up one of the IOT devices that you find around like this camera or you pick any of those you will see that there are many different hardware architectures that chip manufacturers came up with that require different treatment you may have multiple ends use and so print listed a couple of those here where you have for example in in more modern architectures you have a split between the secure word and a normal word and you have different codes so you have you may have a different stack offered by the OS and the underlying sort of the middleware so if the kernel and the middleware that is provided by one manufacturer including for example the radio stack and then the application provided by someone else and you may actually want to update those independently this execute in place is also a very common technique in some other devices specifically wireless LAN device you often have the case that very much like in in more powerful processor architectures you actually need to cop the code first into RAM before you execute it this is not necessarily true in many other devices where you execute it straight from flash um so it\u0027s a very very different models and you need to take those into account during their during the update the update model there are also different practices on how you actually do the procedure where do you copy so you have current you in many cases you will have the firmware one firmer image or maybe most likely another one running already or on the device itself maybe internally on flash or on a separate sitting outside connected using some pass system in external flash and then you need to figure out like how do I get the bootloader to switch to a new to the new version or a mount to boot is it just telling out okay it\u0027s somewhere else or do you actually have to swap the code as a consequence of that and that\u0027s what print and try to elute here so you have to cover different cases and depending on who you talk to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:23",
    "text": "they have different models and you\u0027ve seen that discussion when we when we talked to the MCU folks who joined the list and also Co also the the architecture document who are working on on different hardware systems then then for example we do so they tried to cover a wider system so we have a couple of OS vendors who target a larger set of hardware architectures and so taking those different architectures into account was obviously part of the the work as you know as you know if you have followed along we also spent specifically information while we spend a lot of time on talking about the different roles and the different players in that ecosystem and as as the firmware updates gets propagated and gets sent to the device there are many different actors that may influence the decision on what gets installed we had these cases of medical devices where you can\u0027t just as a device manufacturer push the update to the device but you have to take into account that there\u0027s certification processes in and regulatory regimes that are big date on what you can and cannot update and who needs to approve the updates and so we had many of those actors listed in the information model document and that also influenced that is sign of course if you ignore all of this if this solution would be much simpler you just take a subset and so we try to indur in the specification and manifest specification we try to accommodate for a different use cases even though you may not use some of the features in your in your specific deployment or at least not that at the given point in time right I load it to that already earlier so many of the devices today even though they are very simple so some of you so who has been playing around with arduino like the um 8-bit microcontrollers who has yeah a couple of you guys so like those are really basic microcontrollers and very simplistic it\u0027s very nice to work with and and the pin layout is Soak they\u0027re sold huge pins that you can even sort them so they\u0027re very simplistic but in many iid devices even even we talked about constrained devices obviously not the way how they look like so if you if you open up one of those boxes or your SmartWatch you will notice that there are lots of different components that need to interact and specifically since we thought Internet of Things they are there\u0027s a common practice in industry that if you have radio modules a radio component like Bluetooth Low Energy or you have 15.4 or cellular that they actually reside on separate microcontrollers because the company offering that support they branch it out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "to different components and so you have different microcontrollers you have to manage the updates for so that\u0027s why we had this these requirements to have a Singh have the manifest to carry multiple different firmware updates and to describe what goes where yeah so okay I I talked about those in the context of the roles already okay so that was a a summary of what we have been doing so far I read presents actually about this is now now this was more like more generic sort of interaction well why did we end up with all these different sort of what as an outside if you if you come into the group and look at the document for the first time you want to like or we talk about constrained IOT devices why is this so complicated um and the reason that\u0027s the reason where we ended up we initially thought it would be simple as well but yeah that\u0027s and that\u0027s well that\u0027s what led to this behavior manifest and specifically the discussions that happened end of last year beginning of this year with the focus of on making the whole thing is likely just possible you know and of course the desire to to make it very smart yeah okay you sprinting back on track Brendan do you want to give it another try so jump in the queue all right so I think here okay so he\u0027s going to Quinton yeah I think okay okay so where\u0027s that um so we um in in the discussions around December when Dave\u0027s colleague from Microsoft jumped in and suggested a different alternative format because he had a very specific architecture mind we had this debate about like could we have different formats um could we come up with different ways to make it really optimize for specific environments like the whole debate we had about could we just encode the structure is like a C construct and just basically you just copy the memory more or less from the server side into the into the client because you know that there is a specific memory structure you just it\u0027s like a C contract and in then at the end we came up with the decision that we actually want to have we want to have one format we don\u0027t want to have different formats for the different architectures and we but obviously at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:28",
    "text": "the same time we want to have a very simple pasa we want to make because why do we want to have the simple possible under on and that actually relates to the track I talked about before okay please go ahead alright can you hear me all right yes excellent okay so the initial point here I\u0027m sorry I didn\u0027t quite catch for haniss left off but I\u0027ll just have a lot of similar formats there needs to just be one and I think we\u0027re still getting a lot of clipping it was it was only one clip [Laughter] yeah I will continue so um so previously what I mentioned with the status tracker so when that the phone wept it gets sent to the device it\u0027s running in like the regular application and it gets to gets the update but then it needs to do some passing there and so and that level of functionality there you have typically more sophisticated code to do the passing and and we have maybe see what code of course on cozy code for other reasons or very at that part of the application firmware and and that\u0027s great that that needs to happen because you don\u0027t want to want someone to send your garbage and then you switch off the device and then go into a put-on state but you wouldn\u0027t trigger the device to go into this other state where the bootloader has to decide what firmware it starts and that sort of is a needs to be a somewhat simpler format because you don\u0027t want to have a huge amount of code in that bootloader as well you want to keep the bootloader as simple as possible but you still need to for having some security um a lot of security you want to go sort of like through this secure boot sequence so you\u0027re essentially reusing the same format but is that\u0027s what for example aims you guys are looking into digital strip off some part of what was received over the wire previously and verified you repurpose that for the use of secure boot because ultimately the bootloader comes up it has a key provision and it needs to verify for example the digital signature of the image it\u0027s going to start and that\u0027s what it does everywhere every time it stands so that\u0027s that has to be better be a very simplistic code that\u0027s sort of like you want to have those simple parsers specifically at the bootloader side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:29",
    "text": "okay I\u0027m hoping this is working now all right so from what I heard Hannes was talking about simple parsers yes okay so uh yeah from what he was saying I agree the simple part to construct a simple parser you need to have few unique structures and load nesting levels and and as Hannes was saying simple parsers are very much needed in IOT devices that have very constrained sizes and in boot loaders the next thing is that most update use cases use similar operations these are things such as copying a bit of firmware from one place to another whether that\u0027s remote or local checking digests checking statuses of or properties of different elements of the device and other things such as telling other parts of the device to suspend or resume function and that most use cases use these same fundamental operations just in varying orders and with varying endpoints and finally the possibly controversial point is that an update consumer doesn\u0027t actually care what their update is they care what they should do with it so your IOT device cares nothing about what the update is it just needs to know how to install it so that makes the suggestion that perhaps we should look at a sequence of update relevant commands now this is a bit of a rehash of the the arguments that I made for behavioral updates with the version for manifest next slide please so the currents structure lays out several parts we\u0027ve got external information now this is information that\u0027s used by code outside of the manifest itself so that in our sorry outside of the manifest processor so that involves the structure version so that the parser is able to determine whether or not it can use the manifest followed by the sequence number now that\u0027s used by other parts of the code to determine which manifest it should process next we have common information which includes dependencies "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:29",
    "text": "component identifiers and something called the common sequence if you\u0027ve read through the draft or if you remember IETF 104 where I talked about this you may be familiar already with what the common sequence does but essentially it runs before any other sequence and what it does is sets up the environment so that common decisions can be made in one place which reduces encoding size and a common common variables such as component digests can be initialized in the same place which again reduces encoding size next we have the command sequences those are the six following sequences the dependency resolution payload fetching installation and then validation loading and run those happen in two different use cases the first three happen during installation the second three happened during secure boot type operations and finally we have either text or a text reference section this goes back to the severable section concept that we\u0027ve discussed previously next slide please so in terms of a summary of changes oh good I forgot to fill in the numbers summary changes from zero four I\u0027ve moved the common elements into a nested B string this is effort used parsing complexity and improved consistency in the format now what I mean by consistency in the format is that everything else in the manifest structure is wrapped in an e string with the exception of the structure version and the sequence number so wrapping the common section in a B string also makes the parser more consistent for reducing parsing complexity this is because the common section is referred to back to by all of the other sequences so having a single common mechanism to point back to it makes it simpler to implement the parser since it only needs to hold one reference and it has a fixed size in which to parse which makes the MM parser a bit cleaner to implement so I\u0027ve also changed the encoding of command sequences previously command sequences consisted of a list of maps each map contained only one key value pair hmm after discussion with Karsten and Hank I have concluded that the most sensible way to implement this is by a sequence "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "of keys on even numbers and values on odd numbers but I don\u0027t think it has to be that restrictive I think it just has to be a key followed by a fixed number of arguments and and those can be encoded in a flat way they don\u0027t have to be in maps next slide please and I\u0027ve changed handling of optional sequences this was a very late addition so I haven\u0027t had a chance to work out the examples and after some discussion with experts on language design I have been convinced that we were missing an else previously it was possible to live set ace a number of sequences together that that each tested on if tight case but there was no way to define that it wasn\u0027t that there was an else type case either what they suggested was that we pack together any number of conditional sequences but have them wrapped in one list and have the stipulation that at least one of these sequences must pass this allows us to have a a try else try else try else type structure I\u0027ve added support for encrypted manifests the mechanism to do this was to put in new values and define them as mutually exclusive sorry not new values new keys in the outer wrapper and defined them as mutually exclusive with the existing key for the manifest one of these is a cosy encrypt structure which defines the encryption information for the manifest and the second key is the manifest ciphertext I\u0027m following discussions with David Brown I\u0027ve also added a swap directive which will allow swapping to images but that will be handled in a completely application-specific way and as always with the manifest it tells the device what to do but not necessarily the specifics of how to do it I\u0027ve also moved to defining suit specific digest identifiers in response to some discussions that I had following IETF 104 and there was some mailing list discussion about the named identifiers straf t\u0027 including some digests that absolutely should not be supported such as ones truncated to 32 bits but not supporting some digests that probably should be supported such as the shot to 2 to 4 family and finally there were a fair number of editorial changes next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:30",
    "text": "I think that\u0027s it yes it\u0027s because these have merged that\u0027s right is it marked as informational okay I can see if I can fix that you can fix that when you close the crap I eat yeah Sue\u0027s burger sounds good does anyone have any questions or concerns just honest I at the tip meeting I I suggested to do our very upfront preparation for the next hackathons um and because this this meeting was a little ankle inconvenient for some of the folks unlike neither manually into their guys and Brennan is not here and so on but for the next one I was we were wondering indeed whether there would be interest to actually do a sort of a tutorial hands-on tutorial before the hackathon because it would allow some of the newcomers to actually get up to speed on the hands-on part so they can actually didn\u0027t benefit in the hackathon because otherwise it gets a little tricky but if I have to bring hardware along I need to know up front I can\u0027t just fill up my luggage with stuff so it would be nice to know if there is interest in in doing that and then I bring the piggy along so an interest of making sure you bring clean underwear I think you should have but seriously I we have learned so much from the hackathons in the past I think that if we could do one in Singapore they\u0027d be really good and really that\u0027s a separate issue from what you you just mentioned I mean we can we can do the trip the training as well if it\u0027s not convenient to do it before the hackathon we might be able to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:31",
    "text": "take care take some side meeting time or you know for an interim even right to do that training ahead of the next night yeah that\u0027s something else that we should consider and I think we\u0027re interested in thoughts on you know what what folks would prefer generally Keith more this all seems needlessly Perico to me update the instruction particles seems fairly likely to be platform-specific I think that was related to the behavior starts thank you Roman nearly back on the 3rd of a half papania I would strongly encourage some prep where I\u0027ve seen kind of groups to get together and come up with a plan coming into the actual kind of Saturday kind of Sunday activity there\u0027s been phenomenal results so strongly encourage virtual interim or whatever might help Dave Taylor slightly different topic but related Honus triggered so I\u0027m actually at the mic as a teep chair and wanted to give a short report out on the relationship between teeth and the manifest format so teep had an interim meeting in between 104 and 105 and Brendon gave the presentation presenting the suit manifest format to the teeth working group so the teeth working group could make a decision as to whether they wanted to take a dependency on suit okay the outcome of that is the teeth working Beck got consensus that says the teeth working group and the OTP protocol will take a dependency on the suit manifest okay and so part of the discussion had to do with suit is primarily chartered with having and a manifest format for firmware updates and teeps use case is not necessarily updating firmware right it\u0027s updating stuff that goes into at EEE which includes firmware and none firmware ok and so way back even in the BOK we talked about is this for software update or firmware update or what and and so Brendan explained that the manifest format was generic enough to not be constrained firmware only ok even though that\u0027s the primary outcome of the primary goal of suit ok so that was the basis of discussion and so the consensus was that the belief is the cert manifest format even though it\u0027s designed for a firmware - it\u0027s designed for all the constrained requirements that we have in suit it is not limited to that ok and so the consensus was that t p-- was planning to use the suit manifest as long as it stayed generic right as long as it stayed such that it was not limited to use for firmware which is the current case and Brendan as the author was explaining yes you could use it for many different purposes right at your generic format it happens to meet all the requirements for IOT and firmware and so on because who does but it also happens to meet the requirements that keep head to you and so the outcome is that currently cheapest choosing in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:31",
    "text": "OTR PV to document that Hannes authored and presented in the teeth working group ago this week that it would have a normative reference to the suit manifest format even for purposes not just firmware per se okay that is the current status and so from the t p-- working group we hope that the suit working group continues to along the same lines as it is doing and the teeth would be happy to use it and so that was me just summarizing us chair what I think the consensus from the interim meeting and the meeting earlier this week which we had yesterday where Hannes presented how we might be encapsulate this you manifest in the ojp protocol so Dave this is Russia\u0027s chair does this bring along with it any input to the milestones that we\u0027re going to be producing in terms of making sure where we are not blocking their progress the chairs had that discussion and right now our belief is that the suit manifest will naturally precede the auteur IP spec in the progress meaning we think that the suit manifest is more nailed down than the OTP discussion so the answer is yes but it\u0027s not something that we have any concerns about at this point so okay thank you Empire I also look on Latif so I just personal on that conquer what they\u0027ve said singing as the comments on the importance of a generic format idiotic terminology it\u0027s 40 we decided and want to leverage a suit but for our terminology wise will have say will have a rich world I said no more application application and dependent trust application as a suitor animation might perform aware on limited form of HTTP general software and they will have software we have a trusted application in tipo world that\u0027s one second awareness about dependency we also want to leverage the suit to address the case where I install application one it depended t81 tma-22 ts3 and and go further and further that\u0027s a complex problem and every piece Ida said ok what collaborate suit maybe it\u0027s a wedding suit scope how much that will handle that in a simple way outside but maybe able to stretch it but I think it\u0027s a complete problem overall no matter it\u0027s a firm way or software or trust application it is I think brilliance referring to me we\u0027re gonna go Brendan go ahead hi so suit definitely responds to the dependency question and suit addresses it in a way that doesn\u0027t require the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:31",
    "text": "same signer on each of the components that you install it explicitly allows different signers for different components what it also does in order to forcibly break the possibility of circular dependencies is that it relies on cryptographic digests of dependencies which prevents you from ever constructing a circular dependency hopefully that adds I think it brendan is explaining that because you were breaking up there yes the suit manifest does have a way of addressing the circular dependencies question and Brendan was attempting to give some details that were started breaking up as to exactly how but the teep working group is saying the teeth working group will just rely on the suit working group solving that problem and the teeth will working group will not try to solve the problem themselves it\u0027s just taking a dependency on suit to do that that\u0027s right so that will help you review I understand how well it\u0027s address the problem but and so also for the broad audiences I hope to review this is one for the important topic we\u0027ll look forward to those reviews thank you so this is de fillers TP r there was an open question as to whether suit manifest or some other working group has a mechanism for doing the following so one of the topics in trust execution environment provisioning is you\u0027re not just provisioning the binary your can be R per visioning say configuration of the binary right and so we call that we antique call that personalization data because it may be encrypted by the device specific key right so that no other device can I\u0027m trying to configure this device and only this device right and so the suit manifest is capable of passing yo files and things and so that could be considered to be part of this you manifest the open issue is has to do with trust anchor update and so if you\u0027re going to update say the keys in a device whatever you\u0027re using for your trust ank you\u0027re going to update the the contents of your trust anchor store is that personalization data that you might manage with a Spile and a suit manifest or is that something you\u0027d use a different protocol or mechanism for that is something the teep working group is not heavy proposal it is an open question and advice from this group or other groups would be welcome in deep I mean playing games I judge I have to say the trust anchor comes it\u0027ll look different from complication data become with it as a less sensitive than trust anchor we\u0027ll talk about that Ruta at least of a rule to say certificates just like brother right the browser vendors control that it or take it very seriously who do you trust now how much is that in a suit as a format I can say the more a dependent a format our manifest and file versus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:31",
    "text": "deliver a trust list at a different problem this one is yes in Stephen Ming product the deep topic I\u0027m curious whether we should add another use case to the architecture document in sort of pointing to the deep work to the deep architecture document and talking a little bit about the sort of software the trusted application and also the personalization data along with it so I mean yes I think I concur Highness well let a few subtle way to honor that depreciation right these are different entities they work I clearly explicit this part reliance on a suit this part may need a different approach so and if a suicidal always see with our particular trust anchor as a general treat as a different a problem to not put in scope this whether you say this will realize a suitor soffit it\u0027s a it\u0027s a template in your use case of scope yeah I think it would be useful to have some further elaboration on the requirements and you know what is gonna be handled where maybe we can take that discussion to the mailing list and and and then work it therefore for awhile right yeah thank you thank you maybe a cross post thing between both groups Randy Turner would lend us a year I had it would be nice at some point to get a definition of the word simple because I was just doing a rough back of the envelope calculation on what I needed to implement this so there\u0027s a simple simple parser looks like I need a cosy implementation a seaborne implementation some hashing post post any hackathon it would be nice to have somebody maybe let us know what the size of what they did was or if they were doing a sufficient or a substantial implementation or what this might what this might end up looking like because we have in my company we have sensors with 4k of RAM and you know aka flash and things like that so we don\u0027t have multiple MP years tons of peripherals and things that were and have separate code bases that would use this because those systems are awfully often running Linux sometimes that\u0027d be nice to know what simple means and what a minimal implementation might look like total eye scout sighs Wow I think Brendan might have an answer to that go ahead Brendan yeah I fully agree with you getting the sizes down is one of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:34",
    "text": "top priorities I\u0027ve had I\u0027m even going back to IETF 103 if you what if you were part of that you may have seen Emanuel I asked that specifically I\u0027m so I think working as hard as I can to get those sizes down now when you say a stibor implementation you should note that it doesn\u0027t have to be one of the existing keyboard libraries I\u0027ve built a sort of toy example as a pull parser and it took about 200 lines of C for the C bore implementation and under 600 lines of C for the simple processor now you\u0027re not going to get away from about one and a half K worth of hash for the sha-256 implementation that\u0027s really difficult to get away without I\u0027m guessing that in sensors that small and don\u0027t have signatures so you\u0027re probably using something like H Mac for signature verification that doesn\u0027t add much code so you\u0027re you\u0027re in a really tough spot to get firmware update in a device that size but it might be able to I would question whether you need something that\u0027s completely application specific in an 8k range that falls below the class 1 device I\u0027m it\u0027s gonna be tough but we\u0027ll try and get it down I just I follow up on from I think that sorry Benjamin damn Itron the the ask I think was if you\u0027re going to be putting this code into a bootloader then there needs to be a limb on how big the bootloader is so how big it is probably should be in what what size are you targeting this one is an app that was part of the exercise as we worked on the on at the hackathons and then the work we did in between specifically like the Seaboard question Brendon address that but also the cosy part because it\u0027s may be worthwhile to note that for the cosy implementation you don\u0027t need the entire specificity or implementation of the specification you pick only those features that you really need in because there\u0027s a lot of stuff in the course implementation um we open sourced one of those implementations and a manual did another another one on to look at a boot I wouldn\u0027t say that they are post production ready in and unfortunately I don\u0027t I\u0027m not aware of any production already open source implementation but I just posted a mail "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:37",
    "text": "to the list where we did a write-up of what we found out back then on the code sizes and the RAM util and run requirements and that\u0027s this this paper that provides that information and of course the biggest size or the biggest chunks and implementation is actually a crypto because we\u0027ve so far mostly focused on asymmetric crypto even though the cozy workhorses supports a symmetric crypto but if you use let\u0027s say state-of-the-art be 256 are one type of elliptic curve cryptography then you pay a certain price and we used in our case empathy LS implementation and looked at various other stacks and you can see how the size differs how the speed varies so they\u0027re they\u0027re various trade off with the different implementations and you may want to take a look at that depending on what exactly your requirements are how much time you have for the boot process and for the verification etcetera etc and how access this paper so the way we published it was it through I Triple E but it\u0027s published in a way that we paid more for doing the publication a process so everyone can access it for free because otherwise it gets a little annoying for everyone in the idea either there my phone again um I I would caution against viewing the crypto libraries themselves as being bigger than the processing code because the assumption is that the crypto is all being provided in software and therefore part of the codebase but we\u0027re seeing more often we\u0027re just building the crypto at the hardware so the the SHA primitive is provided in the hardware the EC primitive may be provided in the hardware okay so you\u0027re paying you\u0027re shifting the price from software to hardware but for us that\u0027s we\u0027re willing to do that now I\u0027m not talking about sensors that are in the 5k codes coast-based range like our sensors are a lot bigger than that but there\u0027s that we\u0027re still talking class one devices we\u0027re go to harness and then Brendon mmm yes and it\u0027s great if you have these things in hardware and of course that will reduce your other code size but of course it just means shuffling things around because in reality if it\u0027s for example if it\u0027s just a separate microcontroller or a different feature so you will you could as well have a larger microcontroller and pay the same price and just have any software so you\u0027re moving stuff around but ultimately the functionality has to be somewhere Brendon go ahead hey last time that this argument came up I went and did some research on exactly what devices are available with cryptographic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:37",
    "text": "accelerators and I came to the conclusion that anything that has a cryptographic accelerator of any kind typically starts at 128 KT at which point I\u0027m not really worried about it okay thank you channeling Keith Moore one concern I have is how many different things does the implementer have to know and understand in order to build an implementation that\u0027s appropriate for their product some things like hashes and signatures are none available but encoding really needs to be as simple as possible the manifest world needs to be as simple as possible encoding behavior strikes me as making things too hard too complex for some use cases et Cie we should keep in mind that the implementers implement their audience for this is much wider than for the typical IETF protocol any comments on that Brendan go ahead hi Keith I completely agree with you it does need to be simple I think that the behavior encoding will turn out to be simpler than you expect the only way to prove that to you of course is to show you an implementation so that\u0027s what I am working on now I think that we need to do is to provide a few example sets that show what you would need to implement on a few classes of device I think I think what I heard from Brendan was you know he\u0027s providing one example but that doesn\u0027t necessarily cover all all classes of devices Brendan you were being a little choppy give it something else to say could you please say that jabber I\u0027m dishonest I what you want to let okay channeling keel again good not here or what the it was trying just saying but I think the implementation is what what needs to be demonstrated if the specifications aren\u0027t clear at the example implemented sand won\u0027t solve that so so I guess is he the what he saying I don\u0027t think the implementation is what is needed to remember straighter because he says it you know even if you have a new birthday stand it doesn\u0027t make that the actual specification is clear okay Brandon I think you will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:42",
    "text": "turn out much simpler than you expect we also need to provide a few example Cassie\u0027s for different classes of devices and that that also leads to the hackathon our questions we different people come along with that yeah favorite devices I think it gives us a better way to sort of get their size measurements down and we had some of those guys they already with different devices but having more people come along and participate so that we may be at the end even have a reference implementation of people can use to avoid mistakes our basic mistakes would be really useful so you guys have a chance to participate that would be good yeah so um I can post them I can boast [Laughter] so that\u0027s basically how I opened my comment is it be nice to see game Randy turn turn if we could see some implementations post hackathon or even the one that Brendan\u0027s working on to be great yeah I can I can post the things that we had that the last hackathon put them together I mean I think Emmanuel showed them on the slide but I\u0027m in from the last ITF meeting but I\u0027m not entirely sure but he indeed included the link so just the links to the write-up so one one thought I was just added so Roman generally Academy we\u0027re talking about kind of implementations we\u0027re talking about things are in slides things a result of a hackathon I might strongly encourage the creation of a wiki page that just enumerate set implementation so we have running list folks can see it folks can add to it in it transparent way the track wiki github wiki whatever makes sense I was also thinking that we could write up some implementation considerations and maybe as we get further along an implementation report that would talk through you know some of the work that has been done room engine again that would be fabulous you know when I read the Shepherd reports and I want to bring documents forward one of the first things I check for is do you have running code or are you just saying the working group kind of talked about it and I have a tendency to want to have a conversation about drafts that don\u0027t have a piece of running code that you can point to and typically I like to see URL as well so all this would help and so I do appreciate that so thank you great suggestion we do have a suit wiki page created right now put on your task like one main link in it and I think it\u0027s a great suggestion no it doesn\u0027t have implementations on it yet right and so thank you that suggestion let\u0027s go ahead and do that as chairs if people have implementation links send them to us I don\u0027t know if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:42",
    "text": "other people have the option to edit the wiki themselves or if it\u0027s just the chairs if you have a login yeah so we have a page to do that you can get to it on the data tracker at the working group you go to the wiki link let\u0027s collect them they\u0027re a great suggestion so chair and s chairs please send us links or edit the wiki yourself your preference and one particular practice I\u0027ve seen very helpful as we kind of talk about this whether you\u0027re watching TLS dots and East this may not be the case in this working group but as more documents get published it\u0027s not a matter of just saying I have an implementation for this working group I have an implementation relative to a particular set of drafts and a particular set of versions of the draft so if implementers can talk about a relative to draft and specific version numbers that would be a great help any other comments on this or any other topic so I think the next thing we have on the agenda is a quick wrap-up so we have so I believe that I\u0027ll start then my co-chairs can can add to this we talked today about updating our milestones will um will propose some new dates that are more reasonable to our ap we we talked about starting a working group last call on on the information model which we can do I think following this meeting I think that was what travel great yeah room into new you know I\u0027ll repeat my point about kind of milestones I know we\u0027ve had broad ITF why conversations about how real they are our and how they not I think the most important thing for the publishing the milestones is about getting other people involved in the work it\u0027s so folks from the outside who aren\u0027t perhaps not in the room can actually get a better sense of the timeline and when things might be ready yeah so it\u0027s actually I do it as as important as a project management thing lightly but as a marketing tool a lot more so we can do maybe three or four week you know last call on the information model to allow for time for vacations and whatnot and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:45",
    "text": "then the other the other action I think was since we\u0027ve adopted or since we\u0027ve we\u0027ve completed the last call on the architecture we in order to complete the last call in the architecture we need to do one more Rev to adjust the text around status trackers where we\u0027ll be looking for that by the end of this week and then we\u0027ll work on ready yeah and then we\u0027ll write up the the Shepherd right okay that sounds like a plan anything else so we need to figure out when whether you want to have an interim a virtual interim or a hackathon threat or you want to go to Singapore earlier what any any comments on that right now I\u0027m happy to take that to the list Honus are you willing to drive that conversation on the list of starters are rather great thanks alright that that matches the list I made during the meeting so sir hand the business all right yes can you hold up the blue shirts we funded transport to like stop already "
  }
]