[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "all right welcome everybody i hope you're in the right room this is the animal working group um and we're at itf 112. so let's get started itf notewell i hope you're all aware of this everything you're saying here public and there was actually another slide i should have added but i couldn't find a good template you know please uh expose good behavior there is the you know rules of conduct um you know that everybody should be aware of i think we'll may want to resend that to the mailing list as well um logistics um shang and i you see the videos uh where the chairs um if you're presenting um or when you're presenting feel free to also use the video um there is no uh need for it but um it's always nice to see each other's faces um the uh minute taking is really the most important thing here on the slide um i've seen working group chairs that let their working groups uh sit around for 10 minutes not doing anything until somebody who was willing to take notes was standing up so do we have volunteers here here did i hear something i volunteer oh excellent thank you very much all right all right moves us on the slide thanks right um early ipr disclosure process just as a reminder um we are asking for ipr um disclosure also um when adopting um a document to the working group not only when it is in last call to avoid you know problems other working groups had in the past you know with late disclosures um from from authors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "all right marketing um it's this time of year again we've got the long comm period which has finishing feedback by november 23rd so if you have feedback about any of the people running for the various area director iab and and other leadership positions please provide feedback to nom-com in email and of course any type of general feedback can also be given through the same tool um that uh uh you know uh is is on the nomcom webpage the url you see here and um you know about anything you don't like in the ietf in the general section or of course kudos are um you know taken as well and obviously this was brought to you because i happen to be randomly choosing to be on amcom this time so um right more marketing so this is marketing for anima that we did um so a bunch of the authors of the phase one anima uh rfcs got together um and then after you know recycling the stuff for for for several times we got it into the internet protocol journal of october 2021 uh 17 pages of what we hope and what i do think is a really great um you know overview of enema and what can be done it really from the perspective of selling it to operators users and developers including examples of asa and so things where we would like to have future work being brought into enema so please you know take a look at it and when you always had it people who didn't know what anima was i think this is probably the best that you can point them to to explain it to them all right and yeah we've got um rfcs now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "and that also means that we likely should have and will get and do have erratas and i think that's a part of the itf process that people are often missing so especially when you're an implementer or you're reading rsc trying to catch up please make sure that you're checking the errata so that you're not overlooking something which we already knew should have been fixed in the rfc but it was too late and of course it when you're discovering uh erratas uh please simply go to that errata page and file in errata and then basically go through the process of review um and um so yeah we've got uh three of our rc's with erratas and so that's i think also a good show of um you know the errata's getting read and or being implemented against right so which brings us to actual work so uh the working group documents the asa guidelines um that document was um up for quite a while um and so we had it passed through working group ask all before itf 112 without further negative comments um and the shepherd pushed it through and then we got all the ipr disclosures and so i requested the publication to isg today so um one thing to go into um robert's queue first and then of course to itf and isg um for the brewski cloud we don't have a slot today the authors incorporated the ietf 111 feedback and added security considerations so they think it's ready for working group last call so we would probably um we're going to do a working group last call after this ietf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "so then the nmr constrained joint proxy um so yeah we need a shepherd write up working group last call finished that was including an early iot directorate review so we already got some very good feedback from that on the latest version 05 should resolve all the issues and i think we'll learn more in the slot about it um will be talked about by the authors there is a uh draft being split out uh from that um and so this time we not sure if uh if how many here are remembering uh similar discussions we had when we started enema at which point in time what kind of struck by not restructuring documents and let's say changing 140 page long documents into more smaller ones so this time we had good experience reference from other working groups that that process is painless and can be done without going further back to the working group so i was talking specifically with russ housley uh who's the working group chair of lamps and they've done exactly that structuring into smaller more manageable documents as well and as long as those documents stay within the scope that was agreed by the working group for the larger document then this is simply something that the working group chairs can agree on with the authors um so uh draft animal constraint voucher we've got a slot uh jws voucher um we've got no updates uh on grass distribution and animal voucher delegation um anybody off from the authors wanting to stand up and give any uh information about these two drafts actually terrorists can hear me yep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "yeah it seems there are very long uh delay uh well two seconds uh however an author of the grass distribution actually we believe we have asked the working group lascaux from last meeting so that's why there's no update so i guess you missed that from july so i will blame on you for this okay so i'm overloaded right now so let's let's take that to email um so just just make sure that we're not uh losing it i wanted to to take it to the notes here but i see that michael also didn't catch i think what what you were saying so maybe if you can simply add it to the notes so that we um it was ready for working group last call is that what i heard you say shane yes exactly from july right so i think we we got something like 2 documents well we need to run working group last call after the idf okay so now for all the documents that we're working on um we really need more document reviews um and so um would really be good first of all to make sure that the reviews are tracked um in the acknowledgement sections with all the names that had been done um the more detailed that is the more it helps at the working group last call and iesg review later on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "um and um you know don't don't wait for reviews in the last call but um re reach out to other authors of other documents in the vicinity uh in in anima to ask them for review um uh if if you have trouble um getting getting more reviews uh by yourself to reaching out to other working group participants please reach out to the chairs and and we'll discuss it with you um there is also a formal um part of the process for early reviews from other um things like we've done with iot directorate review which you know could have been done before working group last call as well there is review from a bunch of different formal languages like especially young doctors and also areas like early security review so all of these reviews should as much as possible be done before we pass the document on to um to the isg review because the better it gets out of the working group the better the working group also you know is perceived to have operated so please you know start engaging as an author yourself to collect feedbacks and reviews from other people and for the staff or we as the working group chairs can or must help please contact us all right which basically gets exactly to the point if you're on the receiving end of this request and and you should be on the receiving end if you're an author because you want others to review your documents so you need to reviews other people's document and the best way to do that in a focused fashion is shepherding so um become shepherds for um some other author's document um it's it's really about reciprocity and it's been one of the old principles of you know the way the iatf works it's one of the pieces that hasn't really been written down well so it's not well formalized but the ietf doesn't really work as uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "at all without this um so um let's let's see if we can you know uh get shepherds up so you you see the you know the documents we're talking about and uh i think each of the author can mention if if if they have a shepherd or not and so if you know you want to step forward become shepherd for one of the documents uh please do so on the mic line otherwise we're going to take it of course also after the meeting uh to uh to the mailing list um here here's the list of the document that that we currently have in the working group that are needing shepherds so um you know if you're author of one of them and not one of the others uh please you know really strongly consider now to become a shepherd for it otherwise i'm be sure i'm going to ask you in email afterwards okay um then of course also uh do we never have enough time for technical discussions and it's all you know a death by powerpoint um the itf has a lot of processes and i think we're learning that many of them do help us to do the job better um and doing that you know for two hours three times a year isn't really that bad but of course it's not enough to do all the technical work so please when you see that the work on documents can be done better um you know start to become active as well uh with the help of the working group chairs of course as always you know um try to do something like a design team just a two weekly or monthly uh meeting on you know you can use the webex from from anima the working group chairs are happy to help or also a lot of similar rtc web conferencing tools so that you have audio video channels to much more quickly work with collaborators on the documents right and the best example of course is the brewski design team which has been focusing on a good subset of the active working group documents for brewski that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "we have here um the time had changed and it's been going on very actively so if you're interested in the brewski aspects or so this this is basically the starting point uh where you want to go to of course we also have a github um that's not an official github but if you uh it's not limited to working group documents so any document you're writing for nmr feel free to you know put that into that repository if you're not on the repository we'll be happy to invite you to it and that's it i haven't put the agenda here because kind of duplicating the stuff the agenda between all the different places so please go to the notes pages the agenda is there um so the first speaker i think should be michael for the post working group last call constrain join proxy for bootstrapping protocols michael it's all yours asked to share slides that's the one does that work i think so yeah okay so and um we had a working group last call in october um we received a number of comments from that um and just to remind you this is about having a stateless proxy for dtls that means that you don't need to use memory for each connection that you receive and it replaces a stateful proxy which is in brewski uh there um so uh working group call ended a working group last call ended october 14th we got reviews by esco russell uh and brian carpenter um and a new revision was posted a couple weeks so ago just i think on the deadline um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "and mostly we did some uh restructuring of the some of the introduction to make some of the pieces clear and a little bit of nits and that's about it there wasn't really any significant um technical concern although esco did raid some issues that i think peter and i said we're not we're not going to solve that those issues and that was marked as such um and that's really uh really that's really it um so um peter has implementations of of all of these pieces and i think so does esco have some pieces as well implemented that's about it any questions yeah michael do you have already addressed the comments from the iot review yes we did yes we did address the comments from from uh from the iot director review okay so that was russ housley gave us the iot directory review good then that will be the action on me next allow me two weeks to do the rough check and [Music] shift writing i will get it back to your others ask for the ipr disclosure question as usual then uh give me two or three weeks for that okay great i'll go on tour list yeah please i think the next item is which one is it constrained voucher number three is the constraint voucher brewski is here that is not the right document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "draft oops i did i upload the wrong one i think i bet i did oh you know this is a bucket passing protocol with multiple stages so i will stop sharing slides and i will ask to share my screen and i'll pull up the right pdf file really quickly here and yes i want to change share my screen and just give me one second here anima constraint voucher only guess that i pointed at the wrong document when i uploaded it sorry about that folks i have the screen but yeah i just i'm just gonna get it on my screen before i share it there we go uh window boom click okay better here we are yes there we are um so um just to remind you um there is also a bunch of uh there's now a brewski.org and there's a bunch of implementation stuff and i mentioned this last time but i'm just going to mention this again anyway just for the hell of it um so essentially these are the changes that we've done in the constrained voucher documents since itf111 we had a hackathon before that one and we we tried to have a bit of a hackathon before this one but we really didn't we didn't have a lot of participation unfortunately um so essentially what we we've done is the major things is that one of the things is this updates so uh as you if you're familiar with the whole debate as to what is the um what does the updates word even mean um and so we uh both amend rfc 8 uh 995 um and we extend eight nine nine five and we uh extend eight three six six so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "that is explained in that section um and then we have a bunch of little changes to the protocol a lot of additional pieces uh we discovered some problems with the sid values some duplications in the previous draft that's an oops um and relates to the renaming that we did and we fixed that uh recently um and it may not be in the last version but it's it is fixed now one of the things that we were worried about um is what to do if the yang seaboard documents that we depend upon did not advance because they've been stuck in an isg review since junish so that's part of this so i went and looked at that document and the issues and i tried to uh re boot the effort to get it through since if that document doesn't go through then our document would not go through um and at the same time what we also did is we said to ourselves well what would we need to do to make the references to it not normative but rather informative and so we have a pull request doing that that we have are not have not yet at this point merged so we're basically um hedging our bets here as to whether or not this document will advance um i i went over to the the core working group uh read the comments turned those comments into issues and we seemed to have a somewhat of a design team to fix the issues um finished and so 34 of those issues are now closed and it looks like we could just continue on the way we were intending depending on those documents to see what's happening and i swear i changed the footer on this thing um about the hackathon um so we uh we did we were did have some conversations last week uh we didn't i at least didn't have any packets flowing or testing um we did several us get the the ietf hackathon l2vpn working and that lets us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "test the joint proxy across the uh the network and i'll finally mention that there is an iot onboarding thing that is finally active from the from the nist and the nccoe and that's something we discussed last time as well so there's a document that will tell you if you if you want to bring your product to uh to there to have them play with it then you can go through a letter of intent with that process so that's another kind of interrupt stuff that's happening and that's really quite it um yeah getting back to the hackathon you mentioned not really any participation well um at least i was there doing something so yes i was doing something but we didn't interact did we well not much but my client interacted with your server no not your server with your um certificate so uh maybe i can just briefly show that i think that was also intended yeah so you do do you want to share something is that what you're saying or you want to just talk about here the screen if i know how oh yeah yeah go ahead and just stop by clicking on that part um yeah so so esco did report a bug to me a big one in the form of my certificates and i haven't been able to fix it yet because i just haven't had a focus cycle to do that so what do you have here yeah what i have what i'm showing is the constrained pledge so this is a usb stick format that i use um just to show uh context so it's a really small device with a 15.4 radio on it but this was not the one we used i used last week during the hackathon so click that away so for the hackathon i actually had maybe just show it here um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "yeah it's basically command line java program that that looks like this so you uh start it up and yeah it looks all too far all too small for us to see but but because something's happening yeah actually at least i can see it i can read the text a little bit you can make it a bit a little bit larger so but it's just a testing client so not constrained but java based and also open source so you can do request voucher here for example and you get a load of debugger messages and in the end it mentions failure so it's the 4.0 error yeah you can see here so what was done is i also improved this diagnostic messaging so that it will the client will actually display the diagnostic from the server so this is my my own registrar server in this case and the reason of the error is that the yeah the client was using michael's certificate so i i downloaded that from uh yeah basically his website so we'll just check they're wrong they have they don't have the uh authorized key in the uh thing they have a subject key indicator and so you couldn't build the idef id and so that's my uh that's my bad um and of course you know if we don't interrupt we don't discover these problems because uh i didn't do anything with that code yeah so you can see this is the lucky dump of the certificate so you see the subject key identifier in there and it should be there the authority key identifier so that's the thing it's complaining about and this is actually the first time i tried my client with your certificate so that's the step i did and for the rest i also did not have much time similar to michael uh last week so that's about it but it's progress anyway i think there was once is is is this used is this intended in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "in you know ultimate deployments to use ipv4 or did you just do this because it makes troubleshooting all these logs easier than v6 addresses yeah i think that um in this java pledge it will just use ipv4 or six whatever is available to the server i think it actually should resolve to ipv6 to be honest so i'm not sure whether you see ipv4 oh the the the black line with all the small fonts there were only four addresses in it okay you mean this uh yep one of the problems that several people have is they're using docker containers just deployed in under aws and so they're reachable by v6 but because of docker they don't have v6 inside the container yeah and so they can't go out and that's a major limitation with uh ec2 containers um and i don't know if anyone solved it but um but but here i honestly don't know why it's using v4 because i actually put the yeah the dns uh to only give back v6 adders i think normally but okay that may be good to check and the the constrained one only uses ipv6 in any case yep thanks esco i'm done yeah i think we're at a time probably yes we're um 10 20 yeah we're 10 minutes behind i think that's where reaching our wiggle room so um stefan um status of brewski ae and derived work please and there he goes right right okay so you should see the slide yep please go ahead okay perfect uh so as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "uh as uh told us already mentioned in the overview we went ahead and discussed uh during the last its a split of brewski ae uh according to the use cases which were included there so those use cases developed in different directions so we thought it's better to to have a split of the draft that has a functionality contained and be easier able to declare conformance to a specific functionality so use case one stays as uh what was described as support for other kronos enrollment in brewski and it basically relates to the using an alternative enrollment protocol other than the est simple enroll that is specified in brewski so we are concentrating there on lightweight cmp usage specifically and the focus is placed on the interaction between the pledge on one hand and the register on the other side because from the register to the back end it's also a matter of deployment what type of enrollment protocol is used there so in the second document use case two became brewski with pledge in responder mode or as michael was already stating brewski prime for prm and it covers the the use case where we have a reverse direction between in the communication between the pledge and the registrar uh so that was the case where we introduced the register register agent to facilitate the communication between the two so just uh to go through through both of the current drafts so both drafts are available in the repository and for both drafts we also have a github on the anima working group kit so the status of risky ae so from version 02 to version 3 we did some housekeeping uh addressed some of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "the open issues for the voucher young for the young of the voucher request and included some further open issues regarding the usage of the young models for getting the agent proximity into the voucher request so that was related to use case two and the csr encapsulation we used the the ztp uh ssdp sub module for that and that was included also as as an open issue in there so from three to four we essentially did the split of the two documents so everything that was related to use case 2 is now in brewski prn and the remaining parts are contained now in blueski ae are still in blueski ae so we also have some change of authors there so david from ohan he is co-author and will be the main editor for uh brewski ae he is currently engaged in doing a proof of concept of what has been described so far in bushki ae and i think that's very good to have that implementation background uh to be able to progress the draft thomas has left and will concentrate on the second draft brewski prime so next steps regarding ae is the clarification of the further open issues which we have stated in the draft on the anima github there is currently no open issue so the ones that were related to the use case 2 we moved to the brewski prn repository so the next step would also include to enhance the general description using alternative enrollment protocols and then concentrate on the lightweight cmp profile as stated and maybe also on est with full cmc that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "something we have to discuss further out with elliot i don't think that eliot is participating today but this is something we have on the list so the updates as usual will be circulated and also as usual working group review is appreciated and since i mentioned that david is uh they're currently engaged in the proof of concept implementation there is obviously also interest from others that we can go ahead and mix make an adult testing in one of the next hackathons so far for brisky ae then jumping over to the to the second half of the original risky ae risky prm so we contained all the use case 2 related issues in there for the pledge and responder mode we included the issues that came up from the young doctor early review so that was mainly some itf voucher request enhancements that that are reflected in section six that describes the young motive for bluesky prm and also within the security considerations we also did some alignment with the naming of the ietf vulture request with other drafts and anima like the constraint voucher for instance to be able to list them accordingly and then uh in the voucher exchanges we now use the ietf voucher request prm which has the enhancement included for the agent signed data which is one of the elements that is included by the registrar agent and we also included the changes from netconftp regarding the csr types so it's now a set ztp types included that allows us to to use it without including any of the further types that are defined in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "the s30p csr draft from netcom regarding the next steps uh so we need to further rework the draft so adapt a little bit uh the structure of the draft and also the application examples because there were just a couple of examples included and yeah we would like to enhance them further and then we have some open issues which are also stated on the anima git and also in the draft so one is to to essentially verify that what is included now regarding the ietf ztp types which we use to convey the pkcs10 request if that is defined in the right way and then we have a further open issue regarding the generation of multiple csrs so the reason behind that is right now we are concentrating of bootstrapping a generic certificate which can be utilized later on if the pledge has already some knowledge about the deployment domain or about the application that he requires a certificate for then it might be it might be useful to also be able to generate multiple csrs that are then uh they're bootstrapped essentially during the or enrolled during the first first round of boosky prm last but not least we have also one open issue regarding the environment response object currently this enrollment response just contains a certificate the ldfid for the pledge if we if we think those scenarios further then we may end up in including additional information for either the certificate or also some some further configuration data for the um for the pledge and when we do that then we would for sure need a signature on the enrollment response because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "currently we don't have a signature included because the ldfid is assigned by itself so also here we circulate the outcome and also discussions on the mailing list and working group review as always is appreciated uh thomas is currently engaged here in the poc implementation so that also means that uh if there is interest from others for an interrupt testing that would be great okay that's about it so in the backup i've just included the call flows for the two brewski splits one for use case one or one one for brewski ae and one for the bluesky prime any question all right thank you very much all right and i think that [Music] bring us to thomas as uh the next one update on jws sign vouchers yes that's right hello everybody [Music] so that's it so can you see it yep so this is just a quick update on so what happened in the uh jws signed vouchers uh draft so uh michael and i working on that so to recap what it is about so the rfc836 specifies uh cms sign json voucher artifacts and here this draft proposes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "json another option so it does not make any changes in the in the young and um so it can be used by the brisket rlc8995 and it also so it is used also for the prisky prime stefan just reported about that before so what happened here also what what is the content so we have uh two serialization options so one for compact area serialization the other one for the adjacent serialization so first we first choice was to go for compact so this is already um so implemented so at least on my side and considered in the draft and there may be also interest in in in json serialization uh by opc ua foundation so this is to be clarified and analyzed so this is also on my list to double check with with people from obviously and if there is a need to have that or if there is good reason to also have support that option um so only small changes happened in in that draft now from zero zero to zero one so we in our consistent use of the terms uh pledge voucher request registrar voucher request and the appropriations of that and so also the uh media types are fixed and uh some terms um where were mixed up before so uh so consistent uses of jws instead of jwt and cozy so and some updates in the references that's it mainly and so next steps here is yeah i said already investigate in the uh second gen serialization option for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "json in the jws and uh yeah circulate the outcome to the mailing list of course feedback is always welcome here maybe if somebody would be interested into interested to do the chat art that would be also nice so as tall as already asked for that and uh also working group review would be appreciated here and that's it any questions yeah thank you um yeah well i mean you always can offer being shepherd for somebody else and hope for rhetoric possibly right so start offering then you may receive back so uh um sorry for not being on top of all the workflows um i was i was wondering is this you know the more variability in you know protocol options or encoding options whatever we call it we get um is this safe against you know poor operator in the end sitting there and not knowing why stuff isn't working in terms of let's say a pledge supports some different encoding than the registrar um all the workflows such that uh you know a reasonably good diagnostic implementation of a registrar would always know not only that it didn't work because what was offered by the registrar wasn't supported by the pledge but also what the pledge would support if this draft is acknowledged as i think this has to be respected in the uh draft making use of it so at the end so this draft just defines the format or the form factor so and uh other standardizations or other other specifications making use of it for example the crispy prm have to make sure that um this uh that no clashes can happen here i would say right but i mean um is the what when a voucher is being transmitted is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "it kind of done with a request where you know the supported encodings are in there so that the registrar know which encoding you know um would be feasible when it sends the voucher or um this is included in the uh content type header and in the accept header so by the accept header the pledge or also the registrar if it requests a voucher from the mother can define or specify uh wants what it wants to receive yeah we'll just use just an example right i mean the more variability we get you know there are two concerns one is so many drafts for the itf but the the other one is uh just making sure that uh you know we we may not get interoperability between everything which which is fine but at least we should be able to always get the right diagnostic to not have the solution become undeplorable that that's right and maybe something to add so the default here is so the idea is here by default if nothing is specified in the headers so then uh it replies back so what what received in the request format so if you receive a jws signed voucher request then the server replies with a jws voucher and if there is need to change the um the response this can be addressed by the by the except header well thank you anybody else otherwise i think we're back to michael um status of 8366 this effort buttons"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:05",
    "text": "let's hope this one is the right document oh it is how about okay so um this parameter came out of the brewski uh async enroll who needed to have an additional value for the enumerated stuff and so we now have all these derivations from 8366 and it's been now three years since we published this document um so the problem was that we needed to do this enumerated type and it turns out that we can't do this uh in we can't just extend the yang it's not a way that we can do it because of the way we did it but there is a different way uh and and brisky sync and role would like to have a new a new assertion type so normally the assertion type in brewski's proximity the top two possibilities are logged and the other one i always forget um and but logged is essentially is is used to make um um nonceless ones and the other one is used primarily in srtp uh for that and i can't remember what it's called now it's lost my brain so the proposed resolution is that we're going to revise this document um and we're going to make this an enumerated part of an iana managed registry um so we have to create that word stream the document and then we have to reference it and there's a mechanism in or uh i'm not sure as a mechanism as a as a procedure in the yang community as how to do that um and so we're going to wind up with the numbers and the registry that should be just right this shouldn't have any real effect on anyone coding because we shouldn't actually be changing the the resulting json or sebor that's uh derived from this in theory will not change at all so if you aren't using something new then this will be a completely um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "no change to the any of the bits in the wire but will accommodate new types of bits in the wire um if someone was generating something with a yang code generator then maybe there would be some difference i i don't know exactly i presume they would not be we would code it so there would not be um so what have we done so far uh the work to do so we turned to the document into an xml um put the new modern make files on top of it pulled the yang modules out nicely so they can be edited um and compare the text file to the existing thing and that we that was kind of came up at the last meeting um so now we're going to have to revise the document and uh with the propose with what we need to change um and then we'll get around to adopt asking for working group adoption it's something i certainly could use help with um don't have to be a co-author of the original document i would say um and um but i don't expect to run through this very quickly and i hope that it will get done fast enough to so that brewski async and role will not be delayed but i don't expect to get it any done any faster than that uh for that um so i'm still a bit unclear of the working group how the working group feels about this um it might be worth having a consensus call or some other other thing just ask the working group what do you want to do is this really what you want to do um and i personally haven't had any time to do it since i work on it since uh at itf 111. what i thought was that we would adopt it first and then we would we would that would be the consensus that the working group wants to work on this problem and then we would put the changes and then the adopted document would be identical to the original one um but that's not how the group chairs would like to work so that's fine uh we'll continue that um there might be some other things that uh need to be fixed in 8366 it is now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "although it was published three years ago it is you know probably more like four or five years since we really had a working group discussion about it um and one of the possibilities is whether or not we could go from proposed standard to internet standard in this same step because we're essentially we have a large fair large amount of interoperability experience and we're essentially fixing a bug in the in the document we're not really actually changing anything on the document so that's a possibility could we go to proposed stan internet standard step two at the same step and i don't i don't really know about uh i don't know whether that's uh whether the changes would be too much or not enough or what exactly that's it for me um i'm not quite sure about you know your comment about how the chairs wouldn't want to run it so remind me what what that was but other than that i think on on your questions i don't i don't see any other um options than doing this this seems to be one of the pain costs of doing work with yang and if at all i'd blame it on bad yang doctor review that you know they didn't catch a non-extensible way to do something which hopefully in 83 66 we did you know mark well enough is something we wanted to extend we may not have articulated our needs correctly it may be that the the the the state of yang four or five years ago was oh we didn't think of that okay and now they have so i think that's pretty uh pretty part of it um one of the things that we could do um in this revision if it wasn't urgent um is we could go and collect all of the extensions from all the other documents right i i don't know that's a great idea um but we could do it right it's something that could happen so i'm not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "i'm not sure exactly what to do uh that way i think we shouldn't collect all the extensions into this document that those other it'll be disruptive to those other documents um and there if we were starting this work solely for the purpose of going to internet standard then i would say that's probably is a good idea we probably would have published several other documents already and that maybe argue why we shouldn't bother trying to do this step at this point um i don't know it's nice to have internet standards rather than proposed standards wait a second so if we want to go for internet standard with this document we should not add more functionality the fact that we need to wiggle around with the way we do things in in yang is fine nobody will care about that it's we need to have we're correcting yeah we're correcting bugs in the document yeah exactly fixing bugs and then i think we also need some um you know implementation experience document or so we've we've done this in other working groups so it would be a good thing right if we can show implementations into ability that i think would help us to do that so certainly seems like the easier thing now to you know get on top of the yang thing because that may be you know something we want to do for other documents as well correctly and then do the proposed the go go to internet standard with it that sounds like uh an achievable and useful goal that's all my comments maybe our area director has a comment on whether we can do that uh my hunches you can yes i think i think as you say i think um summarize this up well as long as it's sort of bug fixes and things going in i i think that that would be fine as far as i could see um there is a choice also to publish it was ps and then the separate status change document but it'd be better to one go i think yeah that that kind of blew in the face of everybody with the beer documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "that were all still marcus experimental in the original rfcs and while they're not anymore so people learned about that the status is not what the text of the document actually says so yes that's frustrating um okay um thank you very much if nobody else has comments uh let's move on to slot number seven autonomic ip address to access control group mapping yuzu can you please step forward let me find my slice [Music] okay so i'm going to show this this deck right uh basically it is update to this uh to this asa function called a autonomic ip address to access control groups mapping let me see the next one this one is basically a recap of the basic idea from the last version we have this is a very simple campus network we have asa deployed at the switches or routers and so the aap here stands for access authentication point and pep as euro is the policy enforcement point so we deployed the asa here in order to pass around the information from the the mapping information from the ip address or ip prefix to the access control group so uh the the motivation for this for this work is the group-based policy is becoming more and more commonly deployed especially in campus network"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "so we would like this map information to be passed from the aap to pep the we want to define the new grasp objective we call it ip address to access control groups this is pretty long but we couldn't figure out a shorter but still precise name for it so if this new objective is defined to carry this information uh and also this objective is supposed to be used by an asa we similarly we call this asa and the name is ip address 2 access control group so this is the recap of the basic idea we made some changes from the last version based on the feedback from mailing list and some offline discussions first we give a name to the essay which uses which uses this a new defined objective and we clarify the terms pep and aap basically um in the context of anima there are there are rules uh for asa um supporting i mean for asa we start with the same objective but how this rose is going to be supported i think one of the remaining slides will show that also we clarified the pap note can also be the information provider i mean the mapping information provided to the other pep because it's almost equivalently that conceptually this pep is functioned as an aap to the requesting path so there are some other editorial editorial changes but for this for today's presentation i'm going to show a few examples of how exactly this information will be passed around this information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "passing around basically i don't think it will become part of the standard but it would be informative for the readers to understand it the most useful part for the standard i mean the standard part is most likely would be the uh the the information um defined for the objective which is already in the draft so most likely the aap will provide the mapping information to pep so there are two stages the first one is discovery the second one is negotiation so the aap will send the discovery into and to find out the path usually the number of pepsi is quite limited in a campus network there might be only two of them all three maybe so it will send the negotiation the aap will send a negotiation to try to push the information it knows about for the ip address and the group id to all the peps so basically that's the that's the most common and simple uh procedures to push the map information and the uh this slide shows the path asks for this mapping information from aap this is rare because uh in most of the cases we think the aap would voluntarily push the information to perhaps so but there could be some corner cases that have there is no pre-stored information mapping information on the path so when never have received the first packet of floyd has to ask for the ap what's the mapping information for particular ip address or rp prefix so similarly we have discovery stage then instead of the negotiation we have a synchronization synchronization message for this procedure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "okay so next slides uh this basically shows us an example of when a new path joins what may happen so when the new pipe joins it try to discover all the aaps because aps are the owners of the mapping information so the uh we're assuming that aap will reply with all the information what reply the information has so the pap will collect the info all the all the information from from other aaps so we gave three examples of the of how this uh graph objective would kind of would be used it's not a exhaustive list but i think that should cover most of the cases uh besides that after we uploaded the updated version we also we're still receiving the comments from the list and also off the list we will incorporate it into the draft we're trying to there are three major changes we are going to make the first one is the conveying message originally we want to use the unsolicited synchronization but brian pointed out it may not be ready for use so we change it to the negotiation this is basically to avoid the tcp long connection problem and we want to the second change we're going to make is to allow the discovery message in rapid mode to be used in order to accelerate the procedures then the last one is as the i think the first or second page says we have a role which that basically it tells me it tells the uh tells whether it is an aap or is a pep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "so we are trying to use the objective name uh with the ip address to access control group dot aap and dot pap for multiplexing purpose that's an easy fix and a quick fix for for our for the function of row to work also thanks to brian to suggest this quick fix so this is what we are going we we haven't but we are going to incorporate to the next version the next step is we'll revise the draft accordingly as we show in the previous page and upload it uh when the chat when the uploading channel reopens or it's already reopened i don't know so uh the authors would like to call for adoption for the next revision we think it's uh it's it's is pretty um clear and ready for adoption i think that's the last page yeah that's the last page any questions comments or or suggestions to this document so the the thing i'd i'd really love to see even if it's kind of you know maybe outside of the scope that you were intending to have is you know a really um an example of of an actual service instance with the service parameters so that somebody could build a prototype implementation of this that actually did something um in an improbable fashion so i don't know what you're kind of a real great example for such a service would be because it's it's so abstract that i can't even circle in on um you know what what type of us that you know would most likely be a good first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "um you know first implementation or target so i think that such an example would be great okay so maybe uh you you wonder you want me answer this right now or you want to somehow maybe put it too late system with an example section of uh showing you know uh here is how you would adopt this um for a particular service um and that that service is exactly named uh whatever that qs thing is the parameters of that and and and then the graph the stuff of it okay i see then that makes sense yeah it's a little bit like an appendix informative appendix try to elaborate more rightness yeah but then appendix ultimately would i think also allow us to figure out and i think that is the the really important uh part toward this the spec if or how we would may need to create registries where actual services that want to get standardized would go in and if we have services that are not standardized right so if we basically pick up uh the grasp stuff that is in here we need to very precisely understand how application can use it in a proprietary and or standardized fashion and that's where you know an example is is really helpful to identify these extension points and then start for the grasp stuff here the same uh difficult discussion about ayana registries or you know other things to to really be good about the extension points yeah i got you thank you okay any uh other questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "i think then we're up to number eight autonomic mechanism for resource-based network services auto deployment uh using uh can you please step forward okay okay okay okay yes okay can you hear my screen okay uh i have my and how you see my screen yep we can see your screen oh okay let's start i'm i'm using speaking uh today i will presentation the draft auto deployment mechanism for resource bases and network uh network service and in the ietf 111 drama starter trust draft to this classes on o2d1 department mechanism that deploys the resource-based network service through the acp and by using grasp and this draft describes the negotiation between the resource required node to the required to the results provider node and this draft want to describe how the asa manages the results in the network automatically okay according to the mailing discussion the new version returned a lot and we summarize the major changes in the volume modification so first is that the drafts sort out the definition of the network elements and the second the draft is plans more details about the resource process with a suggestion from the boy and michael and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "it is most important change in our draft we made the our process more clearly and the third is that according to the resource process we simplify the autonomic resource management objectives to make the negotiation more flexible and some unuseful parameters will be delayed first of all clay is they redefine some uh terminology and the the first way should i emphasize is uh resource manager aisa and the resource manager asa is a candle for autonomous server agents and it manages the results in the network it is the most important important part in our draft and the others is other we should emphasize is si and ape and as the border rotor and they play a different role in the auto deployment mechanism size and both of them contains resource manager asa on this page we introduce house to asa manages uh results in the network so resource manager aic is often divided to the request requesting results manager is assigned providing resource manager asa under the communicates communicate by using grasp manager under the acp and the auto deployment mechanism process includes three parts the first is this recovery part under the next isn't resource negotiation part and the behavior after negotiation and in the discovery part of resource"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "major assays and a discovery message to the to discover other resource-minded and it defines in the lighting's rfc890 and in the resource negotiation the resource measure it as a negotiation resource by using the resource manager manager grasp objective uh this objective will design we defined in our draft and we will introduce the next page another resource negotiation may take place in several rounds and in each round uh requested requesting resource manager asa can request more resource according to the aes requirements and it will decide either each round how large resources they should to be offered and as for the providing resource manager aic it responds the whole large resource they can offer and they can offer to the repressing resource manager aic and in the behavioral after negotiation part of the uh research the nato agent is already under the resource provider asa should remove a accept accessible results from its resource pool and the synchronization with other asa in the domain by using grass following message to tell other asa such this resource is used uh there are two cases are about the house as a auto deployment resource in the case one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "isi standard force server initiator need a resource to support its air so service and as as i will use this auto deployment mechanism to negotiate with apu to try to resort results to support their service and in this part this space as i will as a graduate negotiation initiator but if your mutable mutable network has light in place 2 so ape should get a result from the asbr before it responds the so the apu should send a waiting message to the assad to extend its time out anderson the ape should negotiate with the results with asbr okay and this page is about the update uh graphical objective and this uh grasp objective the name is resource manager the users need to be added to the grasp objective name registry under the lobe taunt and objective file we defined as in the grasp should emphasize that uh different for the div resource type and the resource value different resource type of wait time requests today okay uh there are some questions to the uh discussed in the future under the first is how to establish how to deal deployment mechanism to release or increase the results when the server initiator changes need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "another question is that if the two as i say are in a different different domain what are the rules they should follow and uh about this question brian wrote me some suggestions uh suggestion and i will add this in the next word lecture uh the next step we will plan to discuss some more open issue and update some in the next version uh the last question is that riser do you think this is a useful word for anima and the draft is ready for adoption okay that's all my uh thought all my thoughts thank you thank you um yeah i think the uh the same comment as on the last document uh an example um with really all the concrete parameters and everything so that something could be implemented to actually show how how this would work in reality would help i think a lot of reviewers and other working group members to better better understand it and and and comment on it um michael so about the crosstalk about the crop the lane uh question um we had a lot of conversation about about building acps across domains at some point um and i think it's really important to understand uh what is the use case for this to understand what is the appropriate trust um for that um and it might be that um this is a case for needing um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "authentication and grasp um or it might be that this is the case for uh actually i think your diagram kind of and hints at this here that to go across domain that we somehow create a uh some asas that that do this application layer uh stuff between the two of them um but i think that what is the right answer depends upon what it is that you're doing and i think that we need some examples and maybe this doesn't apply for all all things maybe the same answer doesn't apply for all things so that's what i would ask is is that that be called out a little bit more clearly uh in the document what is the example for the cross domain scenario um okay okay i will think about this question and i think her way in this draft we want to uh discuss a negotiation process and always think what they are the scenario in the different domain they will have some more problem about us supporters security but i see security but i think this is a shouldn't uh discuss in our draft but i will think this more detail underway can't discuss in the mailing list okay that that would be great i i'm just saying that i think that before you go to the effort of saying explaining how to do this cross domain tell me what why would i ever want to do that why would i ever want to deploy a resource across this and i think that we need some real concrete uh things to say what they are uh for that um and you know i can think of some like optical paths or other layer two vpns or something that have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "cross multiple providers or something like this um but i i think that that needs to have some like the word acros the word domain shows up 14 times in your document but only two times with cross domain and it never explains why so that's what i'm asking so before you solve that hard problem ask yourself if it needs to be solved is what i'm trying to ask okay okay michael allow me to answer you um as a co-author for this draft first of all we are not going to solve that in this draft um that's out of scope because for all those efforts we had in enema we are actually limit ourself in our single domain that's why the brands suggesting said you know it's the three separate into two domains and but we do have the use case in in the real world we lead the cross-domain uh coordination um mostly for the you know undertrained um quality guarantees uh if you only in currently one um because they if there are cross-domain paths uh from and understand the past it will have only response resolved in one domain uh in another domain you actually has the pas another part of this pass for the best efforts then that means whatever you have on on the one single domain with whatever resource you have you may waste that because the the in another domain the latency or whatever the quality may get get damaged by the best efforts so we do need the cooperation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "but again that's not the purpose of our draft our draft actually focus on you know show that in single domain and how to cooperate in cross domain that's another issue we have to have this single domain um solved first right i'm actually i think i'm saying exactly that i'm saying why are you trying to why are you introducing the question across domain if oh yeah points taking so much money that's you draft thanks all right any more questions okay then i think i'll be the next speaker all right so this is about the the two drafts that i already presented on itf 112 uh so the grasdian ssd and the nmr services dns auto config just wanted to quickly uh explain what we again what they're about and where we stand um so the dns draft is uh wasn't updated since 111 and it's a specification to support the equivalent of the dns sd service announcement discoveries with even you know better service selection parameters through grasp um and equivalent means it's not any uh encoding of dns resource records or mdns packet headers or so into graphs but really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "only the encoding of the you know api parameters like service name service weight um service sharing all those uh and the addresses and so the service parameters which have very convoluted encoding into dns resource records these service records have a very simple encoding into a graph objectives and that's what this draft does and what this allows us to do is applications that are written in the expectation that they're doing service discovery through dns sd that they could do it equivalently if not better through this protocols grasp api with with the same parameters and we would also be able to share any of the service registries and operational procedures and ultimately we could have you know also implementations automatically select a grasp when it goes across the acp or dna ssd if it doesn't go across the acp so i hope a very fundamental good way to provide the most important step of self-auto configuration of asas and the second document also we didn't update it since ietf111 but just to re-summarize again that was actually the driver to do the first document and that's really the minimum amount of self-auto configuration of services that we need to bring the a i infrastructure up to a place where the most likely shortest term you know deployments will be able to use it and those deployments would be the ones that we described in rfc 8368 which is the a i together with sdn controllers and so we're basically talking about everything the sdn controller shouldn't touch so that the sdn controller actually has reliable connectivity across the whole a i without being able"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "to break it and that particularly means that we need to have syslog for diagnostics we need to have ntp so that our certificates are even working across all the devices because we have good enough time synchronization um radius and diameter and ssh so that the sdn controller can actually connect uh you know for cli or um yang netconf operations into the devices so this is kind of the most core infrastructure services um and and that should ultimately really round up um a first round of a i that can be usefully deployed so um really um i i want to ask uh um for the working group for adoption to this so this should get on the list for um you know adoption call by the working group chairs all right any questions with my shareholder on um to ask you uh is there any reason you cannot merge this to draft into one um i think that is uh is logically quite um illogical right because uh these these these services that we're talking here about they're really very specific um to you know um ani networks as you know i imagine them to be used short term with rfc a3 um 888 and the the grasp stuff is very generic applicable to all you know the other uses of asa and automatic functions um and so you know one is defining a protocol and so this you know i think you'd be asking me why wouldn't we have done dns sd rfcs together with a bunch of applications using dns sd together in a single rfc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "got you but um [Music] okay okay all right um so uh michael do you want to say something to slot 10 uh you said no slides you want to step to the microphone or we want to skip that slot um i'll just say that the documents aren't dead um that there is some work on the derived document about idev id considerations in the t2trg um but uh that um i'm not receiving a lot of feedback that says these are terribly useful documents so if you disagree that would be great um so um that's about it yeah i i would think that we just don't have enough operators that are complaining about the specifications not being sufficient to have sane deployment models so i think we'll just may need to wait and let them linger on until we get closer to that point all right then we're to the slot 11 requirement and reference model of the l2 acp-based based a i draft from zoo yujing before you step forward i don't mean my control and share my screen yeah you simply need to click on that um icon on the right of the hand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "and then you select a random slide deck and present to that now let's tell it yeah yes okay okay now i will present green chair which is fine we had one presenter and before doing the same thing so typically it's for uh for all the participants unless your slides have animations or so um it's it's easier for for all participants to to see the pre-shared slides but please go ahead just wanted to make the note okay uh i'm replacing presentation the draft recommends under the reference model of layer 2 basic ai and this documentary we want to discuss the scenarios and the requirements of layer 2 sap and it is an incident of generalized ap to employment uh part of an eye function in the layers of network and then it shows a reference model to transparent search layer to sap and as a relative function uh on the first page we want to talk about a little about the background under something idea about the draft uh so acp is a autonomic control player and it is uh self-managing and as independent as possible of configuration control plan and the way it can say that current sap implementation use ip basics link to local addresses based sap turno so we can say and uh is that the current sap is a layer three control and control plane and uh however there are some cases that always enter required is in layer 2 sap functions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "and here [Applause] this picture shows uh some some cases way to require the layer to sap functions uh the shoho and the assam beatrice is a typically example and in this case we can find some one or more following features so first is that the network is not very large the number of hoses is usually less than 200 and the second network contains a different type of the in equipment some layer two switches layers with rotors and uh hybrid layer two and the layers with uh switches and we think they are how a multi-level layer to topology network so how to control this multi-level network user was discussion and the third wasting some notes how a fewer results in the network like some iot nodes uh lastly we seen that the network is sometimes required to firstly form a local air network disconnected from the internet so that's about we think that autonomous network management with layer 2 network nodes is required uh about always summarize the scenarios requiring layer 2 sap so why is that some manager network is a small layer to network wires network knows how no layer 3 physical interface and our favorite results and the answer is the network manager would have i would like to use and verify the layer 2 topology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "and the readability first for some major purpose because sometimes some parts can not have ip addresses so we should use a layer 2 topology to control this uh based on the layer two scenarios we'll propose some layer two requirements uh way uh we think we write on this nine pointer so first is starter we send her uh the ip addresses of the node and its interface made not to be available upfront and the racing resources current acp turnout is suitable for this situation under the certain reasons that layer 2 sap construction can be used on the layer to available information and mechanism such as the metal addresses the law of physical part information uh threes uh three we think that uh adjacent node discovery should be carried as a layer two frame under the first wave center it is there to reduce the grasp message as much as possible uh so not this sensor we sent a layer to sap for the provider api to the upper layer to allow the asa to invert the layer to basic function and the physical connectivity and the topology information should be able to connect it well the layer 2 sap and the next routine in the layer 2 sap should support there to loop a free logical topology creation the minimal manual configuration is required uh the last is center reuse exciting multitasker mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "address is desired this is the requirements of resources layer 2 sap should how and maybe this is not very complete and the this picture which shows a reference model to layer to sap under for the reference model uh we think that the trans transaction api should allow asa to communicate with other assets by involving a set of layers to transport the basic function and the layer 2 sap provide a similar function as layer 3 says in the printer and as a layer 2 sap should provide a lighter discovery negotiation and synchronization and always think there are the same like the layers with atp um about the convolution we've seen that uh there are there are how some scenarios require there to sap underway hopefully they always emphasis is an important topic in the unm and we want to find a way to uh wait to uh define the layer 2 sap and the second is that uh wait uh the layer to sap with this has a year our draft is to build a layer to basically the sap rather than uh the sap on layer port so we send such a way through the uh master to face some situations after the interface have no ipo addresses so maybe we can use the micro address"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "about others like a security consideration i think uh if the network is not very loud with largely contained some physical way to protect our network and but i actually i think this is not over not a complete underway thing we need a further discussion okay next type of way center we should uh talk about more about layer 2 sap and i think this should be discussed more clearly okay that's all my thoughts thank you thank you um maybe um question from my side so um in the layer 3 acp the very simple process from receiving a packet into the acp on one interface routing it at layer 3 and sending it out has just a very few steps right so you're receiving a packet on a link local ipv6 address you're let's say decrypting it with ipv6 oh sorry with ipsec and then you've got an acp ipv6 packet you're routing that it is routed from the ripple routing protocol and on the outgoing interface you do the reverse thing you're encapsulating it uh protecting it with ip36 and sending it out link local to the next hop so can you explain for your solution how the same process would work what are the steps for receiving for such a layer 2 acp node a packet forwarding it by whatever mean and sending it out i didn't see that really to down to that level in the slides i think is a draft of a total bounties inaudible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "scenarios and requirements and i haven't considered your question very detailed details right so i think that that would be the first step in terms of please define a standard um you know doesn't have to be the only one but one case of how you think the forwarding should be able to work right when the packet is received um and what address is it received is it a layer 2 address are there 3 address how is it basically is it protected and then when after the protection is removed right so yada yada these steps so step by step that forwarding so that we can even start comparing your proposed solution with what the acp today does that make sense i have i don't have a sense about this question right but i mean without without an example of that i think it's impossible for anybody to implement something that could be used as a reference example of of the draft right so that's why i think being able to have that understanding from the draft is is very important okay okay michael back to your slide i think it's three the lcp l2 acp case can you hear me uh pattern pattern this page are all displayed one more i think no or the first diagram that one yeah so i'm trying to understand this use case so we we do acp work over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:04",
    "text": "to talk to some management interface and you've said that none of these devices is l2 aggregation switch this l2 access switch the wi-fi access switch none of these have uh layer 3 addresses they don't get managed they don't do snmp they don't do net conf they don't do rest comp they don't do https is that what you're telling me i think well i think sometimes this is in this use micro dress you see enough and sometimes i think her favorite results lead to this question okay um i'm just asking because it sounds to me like they don't need to be managed and so they don't need an acp if they don't have any management interfaces that they need to talk to [Music] chiming a little bit yeah yeah yes so and i think for sure they are going to have management interface almost every equipment in current days they have a management interface but here is more like is talking about what happened before this being enrolled so it have the management interface after it gets enrolled and if it is in ipv4 world of course let's leave v6 maybe for a little while if it is in a v forward um this management interface still need to re do the dhcp request to ask for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:04",
    "text": "an ipv ip address to be configured so that happens after the something like the layer 2 loop loop-free topology build up and everything everything being done then it asks for the dhcp send the dhtp request so that's that's a step by step by step thing so it's not it's not available at the step one do you think you want to change that because it sounds like it works fine now so why change it what um change change what well look we've created an acp specifically so that you don't have to do a dhcp request and set up your layer 2 before you can ha do enrollment and do all that stuff we went to a fairly fairly reasonable effort to have joined proxies to have a whole bunch of other things so that we can onboard devices even though they don't have connectivity even at layer two or three um so we've done all of that in our rfcs and we did that specifically because the layer two auto configuration just didn't work we couldn't do dhcp and and so you're telling me i wanna do dhcp i'm like well okay if you have a situation where layer two works and you can do dhcp then i don't know why you need an acp right so you're telling me you can't do onboarding until you have an address or you can't do it have an address until you do onboarding i'm not sure which one you said but i'm just not finding this this scenario here credible to me okay i think that all of those machines have layer 3 addresses or have layer 3 stacks i think what's missing is that you're trying to do some layer two tricks to avoid doing writing any code at layer three and and to a large extent i think that's what this working group is trying to get away from in the same way that we're trying to get away from dial-up modems attached to switches as as out-of-band"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "access so i just don't understand why what the scenario here is right what is going to happen to these devices how are they going to be managed over a layer 2 network without ha and they don't have a layer 3 address which is we've been told in a couple slides they don't have a layer 3 address so you're telling me they do have layer 3 addresses just not at that time and so it sounds to me like really um you know i don't know you have a problem where you have to solve it at layer two because the layer three the people that own their their three uh won't change their code and so you have to change it at some other layer instead it just it doesn't sound like a problem that it sounds like a manager a people management problem a human resources problem not a network management problem right can we maybe consider that we're going over right now to the you know slot number 11 of of the whole discussion because i think for your contention i would have answers which i'm not sure are actually what um the draft here is proposing but would which would i think exactly answer you know why we would you know benefit from some form of layer 2 acp exactly for an example topology like this so you said we don't want to have dhcp that's fine but so we can do this case here where let's say all the egg switches the excess switches um and the access points of course are in the data plane only layer two switches let's assume that right the core router is the only route everything else should in the data plane be just layer two switches so with the current rfc 8994 we can do that but it means that for the acp we're really creating layer three interfaces um which are not in the data plane which are you know um just for the data plane they're just you know uh link local for the encapsulation um on on the bridge groups and and we separate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "the bridge group for the acp traffic and then we do all the routing and if these are real hardware switches with fast throughput only layer 2 then the acp will be very slow that may be sufficient for some deployments but as soon as you're starting all the cool new stuff like a lot of telemetry and firmware download and everything else it would really be good that for the aggregation and the access switches that all the traffic even for the acp would not have to be forwarded by them in software right so traffic from the call router to an access a switch going through an aggregation switch shouldn't go through the cpu of the aggregation switch even when it's in the acp so that is the limitation i think taurus you're arguing for maxec right or or some other technology at layer two to do the forwarding i haven't talked about the solution i haven't talked about the solution we've talked about but i agree with probably i agree with you it would be nice to do something else and i agree that we can create uh a layer two uh uh mechanism to do to transport data but i'm not sure that that requires or that we create a discovery mechanism at layer two or a mechanism to transport grasp at layer two because as far as i can tell all of those devices you're removing the forwarding requirement from layer three but i don't see why the control plane uh that that's going to receive and send grass messages and other things why that isn't has to be layer two it means to me it could be layer three just as easily and if you wanna run our normal protocols they pretty much need to be layer three don't they do we have a way to run that conf over layer two i think i think this is this what you're saying on asking now is a little bit too theoretically for me right because i'm thinking about the practical different options that we have um and i think two or three itfs ago we also had a little bit of time and i was trying to explain what i think would be the most easy solution to make these layer two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "switches work well and that is as far as the acp is concerned they wouldn't be routers but they would be hosts right so they wouldn't host on the network on this l2 network yeah so we would need to depend on the underlying um data plane spanning tree bridging and we can of course think about how the acp may help to further protect it or so what tricks we can play but otherwise you know we use the layer to a hardware forwarding plane and all these hosts just use the normal acp but we may need to build a full mesh of host to host connections so there would be no routing across any of them um and that i think would be a worthwhile effort um and uh would uh make create a single acp with mixed layer two and layer three switches um and give us a good solution and unfortunately i never had the time so far to write that down it could be it could be uh that they negotiate you know vlan 495 or something like this yes they apply max sec to it and they all look like their hosts doing you know um dhcp or nd or whatever on it right and and that's all and i don't have a problem with that we we just need to be able to negotiate that clearly uh with uh grasp it's just a new transport right we have ipsec and we have dtls and we'll have maxsec or vpn or vlan or something like that yeah i mean we would we would certainly love to use a separate vlan for isolating the acp traffic from the data plane but as far as the you know crypto is concerned um could still be ipsec it's just then ipsec from a hardware ipsec capable core router all the way to each of the layer two devices there yeah over over that over that v over that spanning tree managed v layer yeah okay i mean i'm just saying we should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "select the crypto for the maximum interoperability and uh performance and whatever the the core factors are right so the question is do we need any new crypto and the big reason why i liked uh maxic uh and still do like mexico is when we really have these cool uh layer two plus layer three switches that can do um layer two and layer three add line rate in hardware forwarding uh and also have mac sec hardware forwarding so that is that is then faster than ip software right so if we have something that's faster than ipsec we should use it independent of whether it's done at layer 2 or layer 3. but so far i think the starting point to me after you know revisiting mechsec after six seven years is it hasn't trickled into all the switches unfortunately that was the hope a long time ago but it still seems to be for few high-end switches only but but if you can do ip second software for the traffic for your own traffic only exactly well the wi-fi access switch you know if if it's if it's running slowly because it's downloading a new firmware update well that's just life right um but while it's doing that it's not actually screwing up the forwarding of traffic for anybody else yes um and i agree with you that would be really good to do um i i i still worry about spanning tree uh in a scenario like this because there will be dead links um and anyone who has built us tried to supply spanning tree for instance to voip it's a disaster you you can't do it it doesn't recover fast enough you need to use ospf uh or or even isis um you just i'm not sure about that i mean yeah i'm aware of the lockdown timers are too long even with rapid you get you get you can get down to one or two seconds uh to redo a link but ospf keeps all the links open and so as soon as you lose a link you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "know you know within milliseconds and you re you redirect the packets right that's true but i mean ripple our ripple profile is also not optimized for uh a very fast convergence speed um but for for low load that we can support large networks so i think that's perfectly fine that we're not getting better but the point point about not using spanning tree is that the the whole network's not using spanning tree because the whole network can't tolerate those numbers right and and that's why that's why that's why it's been turned off that's why they've gone to an sdn solution that can redirect it instantly or uh to some other technology that that can do it um well there are a lot of um there are a lot of service provider access networks from the dslam to the core which are using layer 2 so um figure figure that right so maybe the voice over ip does sometimes have you know a one second interruption from you know the rapid spanning tree um well if they do then they they get the customer changes isps i have experience with that it's not an acceptable it's not an acceptable situation and why quite a number of voip isps for instance they um now own access networks because of that the customer the business customers won't talk won't tolerate that kind of thing but but back to our point is that that it's that the reason why the stp might be off in my opinion is for other reasons and they don't want to turn it on for um to make this scenario work and that's why um there's a there's you know a desire not to have anything that requires broadcasts to work uh because until the s until the devices are connected to their sdn the broadcasts are dangerous right right but i i don't see a solution in which you're turning off spanning"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "tree and have layer two only devices in a relevant topology that's what i'm agreeing saying i don't see the point in doing that right you you if you're turning off spanning trees because you want to turn all of those links into into uh layer three links um and and you don't want to try to do the whole thing and so you you're gonna have layer three anyway yeah and and so i don't do that brian's not here to talk about this because he's done some things um and i i one of the conclusions i had in the document that i did on air 2 discovery was that i finally realized that we could do layer 2 discovery over lldp for instance even as originally thought of but that once we get going uh the the the acp traffic would be simply unicast layer two traffic from host to host and so it doesn't it's not vulnerable to broadcast problems and you just need to suppress neighbor discovery also i think in summary from my side there is you know a business case uh for or there is there is a an acp use case we haven't solved for uh with with good performance for layer two only switches in networks where layer two only switches are used i think they're they're they're easy enough to build solutions for that whether or not that really is a good solution for broadband access network because it may not have good voice over ip is an interesting question but we do know that there are a lot of networks that are only using layer 2 switches in these spaces for whatever reasons what's our conclusion that's your other question what do we do with all of this stuff well so first for for the for this draft i think we we have the ask to the authors that are raised how they are looking at the forwarding plane and hopefully from the discussion we had they also have an an idea on how to position their proposal to to to the use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "hopefully the explanation of how the layer 3 acp today works with existing layer 2 switches and software is also there so um you know what i was saying is is something that you know we just need to find time to write down as a proposal into the layer two acp case and maybe you know we can create ultimately some some joint document to go forward with you have you have a right right up as well right in so there are many aspects in all of this all right are we at the finish of this slot any more questions to it all right shing do you want to want to close the working group meeting i think we run out of agenda sure yes we have done very good discussion here and of course we don't have enough time to discuss everything as europe so we should have uh continue our discussion in the mailing list and from this meeting we will the chairs will have to do some homework and also do the shaffer work and there may be some working group calls for the adoption with we show some potential here robert do you want to once you've finished once you're finishing are you done i have done yeah i was just going to quickly pick up on some of the points that turles made earlier in the meeting about sort of process thing i would like to encourage folks to sort of cross review each other's documents that helps them progress a lot more quickly um because then uh you get comments and also you'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "help you review other comments the shepherding role that mentioned again i'd like to encourage folks to do that it's a really great way to learn um what the sort of document publishing life cycle is and what the steps are and it gives you a great view as to what that is and helps you when you're progressing your own documents if you understand what the steps are and what's expected and required there's different things so i'm sure that the chairs for people who are new would help you with um getting started and there's various guidelines and i'm gonna i can provide some help and pointers for that and then the last thing that telus also mentioned i think is really important i'm really glad to see this slide is about if you can provide non-com feedback um on all the people you know and the positions and things i think that's really helpful um for nom com to make um make make the decisions they need to and choose the right people going forward so um again i think that's that's a good call out and i used to support that as well thank you all for your time thank you robert thank you all for your time um i'm now announce the meeting close thank you see you next time bye hi thank you bye"
  }
]
