[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "stirrers denote well that you have read and seen and know by now please close the doors if you don\u0027t mind and stop talking unless it\u0027s about an outro a repeat of the first session we have Barbara that is taking notes for us I believe shipping is take being the Jeffers Krab thank you very much blue sheets are going around here is the agenda we have two working group drafts it\u0027s the or so well items it\u0027s the fragmentation of router well and going through those together with the ad it\u0027s the press 64 work and we have a set of active individual drafts that we\u0027ll go through and then a set of lightning talks afterwards I also wanted to mention that during our working group chair meeting on Wednesday the RFC editor updated us on the RFC format project and this is something that is going to come to all authors that the format we\u0027re moving to be three of the format\u0027s so there\u0027s a new version of the XML to RFC tool and there\u0027s now some small changes including you know you can SVG graphics lists have changed a bit and you I can even put my surname incorrectly now with the Oh / of yours so I\u0027ll just make a document you know to prove that works okay Bob I think you are here\u0027s the clicker and please stand on the cross the target position so I\u0027m going to talk about the fragmentation errata for RFC 8200 the ipv6 back that we did was it last year or in the year before that and the year before that so I RFC 8200 was published in as an Internet standard I guess it\u0027s just standard but July 2017 and it included fragmentation updates from for RFC\u0027s and as the documentary was quite challenging to bring all that in and have coherent text and I think based on the errata I think they didn\u0027t we didn\u0027t quite succeed in doing that correctly but it required extensive changes to the fragmentation text and errata for over-many that is a bunch of errata were filed in you know October of the same year and it\u0027s taken a while to get around to look at them very closely so the the underlying problem is that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "fragmentation offset defined as pointing to the fragmental part which was the way it\u0027s written in 20 in the you know the spec that we were updating should instead point to the extension and upper layer hair headers not not to the part after that and so in order to do this directly the text will need to change in four places that\u0027s actually what the work there was there\u0027s actually one that the errata missed or there should have been five Virata there were other changes proposed in the errata beyond fixing this problem so but let me first talk about the last errata that\u0027s the simplest one so the the auto proposed changing the figure of the reassemble packet from the the first the date the stuff after the extension and upper layer headers from first fragment data to first fragment I don\u0027t believe this is actually correct because it\u0027s not the whole first fragment it\u0027s the just part of it so I think it\u0027s actually correct to say data that\u0027s why it was done that way so I don\u0027t think that\u0027s a change we should make so I\u0027m gonna go through the direct text changes based on Narada and and then we Olli and I have been looking at this and he meant to suggest in which I like that is a different way of solving this problem so the first one and this is the one that was missed it\u0027s on the it\u0027s on the first page of the document where it defines fragment offset and and that that also has the same problem so instead of relative start of the fragment fragmental part it should be relative to the start of the extension and upper layer headers I mean so the changes are mostly all like this the next one is on page eighteen second paragraph from the bottom again changing it to be relative to the start of the extension and upper layer headers and the third one it\u0027s also at the same same kind of change page 19 fourth paragraph from the bottom same sort of change and the last one is slightly different the first part changes in the same way so in this case it\u0027s adding extension an upper layer here instead of changing it it\u0027s because it it\u0027s referring to both and then you also thought rewriting the last sentence it\u0027s clearer if you say they reassemble the original package instead of fragmental part and the other related "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "change that we if we\u0027re going in this direction to make would be on page 15 second paragraph the next header definition its so instead of saying identify as the initial header type of the fragmental part it should say initial header type of the next header value that identifies the first at or after to the per fragment headers of the original packet as defined below so let\u0027s get the doors closed please so another approach I mean this text is very awkward and so this is actually all the credit for this and I like it a lot no for the a better way of writing and then what I I and well we all came up with since you all approved this and the ad reviewed this and the is G we\u0027ve you know this sort of interesting that it got this far this way so the the problem was caused because we added extension and upper layer headers to the figures you know and a few places in the text so the the tail out of the text is talking about the figures and so the PID a-- here is to fix that the the fix the place in the text where it actually tells you to put put the extension and upper letter hair headers is actually only in the circle it\u0027s like part two of the text where it says how to create fragments yeah or articularly how to create the first fragment and that\u0027s where it says it so all these observation was if you go back to the the text and the figures from before we did this change that it actually gets a lot simpler and you just add the words make it very clear in the text where you\u0027re creating the first fragment and so we took a cut at this so I have three page I don\u0027t can you read this okay well at least I think you can yes it\u0027s very clear on the screen up here and just do this from the agenda page yeah so these these slides are up on the agenda page if you want to look at them I mean where if you know we\u0027re obviously going to send this out to the list we\u0027re not just going to declare final approval here so you know but you could just use a shoe I think get the idea of that the you know the figure is now back to per fragment oh that\u0027s well sharper on my screen but yeah you can see it changes it it takes away the extension and upper layer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "headers and it\u0027s just talking about it the text and so you know and then there\u0027s also some changes to the text let me just go yeah if can you assume it back oh there we go that works we need to higher resolution displays yes so this is the next page and you can see it\u0027s these are just changing the figures and and then so the text in it sorry it\u0027s actually it\u0027s sort of the bullet three where it\u0027s a it starts talking about extension headers because that it\u0027s not just it\u0027s not just done in the I mean there is actual text that says what to do so move the this the paragraph that defines what these you know what of what except the extensions headers are and you know upper layer headers the definition that was a writ was in the current document earlier here but it fits here very well because you can see the beginning of that paragraph says extension headers if any and the upper layer headers so these you know and the headers must be in the first fragment that\u0027s that\u0027s the behavior we\u0027re looking for and then I think there\u0027s one more yeah and then this is also just makes the figure of what the reassemble packet looks like a lot simpler so and then yeah there\u0027s something at the end but that\u0027s just a remnant of me trying to produce a zero and uh no one draft to be able to see the changes to be able to do this diff so I I think this is a much better approach I think it actually makes the document simpler and but it\u0027s still correct and it still makes the check you know he continues to change that the the extension headers and the first upper layer header are in the first fragment just because that that was actually tacked it wasn\u0027t in the fig you know it wasn\u0027t the figures figures were there to illustrate it but it was you\u0027re actually go back I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s this you know item three that you know it\u0027s defining how to create the first fragment that\u0027s where the real protocol definition was and if you notice that\u0027s not there wasn\u0027t a problem with that text so it was the text that was trying to explain the figures and where the pieces were and that just gets a lot simpler if we go this way we unfortunately didn\u0027t figure this out the first time around okay so see if I can yeah you have to grow up that\u0027s pretty good so we think that the alternative "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "approach is actually better than making the specific changes to the text which in some ways makes it more complicated we clearly think that the working group needs to review these carefully we don\u0027t want to do this again and it might actually be good for someone to spend some time and with you know the text that we agree to make sure actually go and see if improve it implement this and if it\u0027s if it works in the way it\u0027s supposed to Joe I agree with you because it seems like a sensible approach I\u0027m just a little uncomfortable with publishing that thing that results as an errata so next slide it\u0027s a good point okay and so the and the other the errata 5173 we think that should just be rejected and we don\u0027t think that\u0027s correct so yes so therefore I think thank you there I think four different ways we could go here how to handle this the first is and but so the first is to accept the errata with the changes here and and market held for document update we would need to figure out how to describe either just include a whole new section of text or or what the changes are and you know it\u0027s I mean you can imagine having a script that actually you apply to the old text but that\u0027s well maybe problematic maybe it but you know there are three different errata here so it\u0027s a little complicated the next approach is is to reject all of these errata create a new one that includes all of the text basically consolidated into one errata so someone looks at the RFC you know at least on the tools page or they look at the errata they will see the new text and and that i think has the nice part about tying the changes to the current spec and there is a new set of errata tools that are I think being I\u0027m not sure the exact status but I think they\u0027re coming pretty soon and this may give us some better ability to do this the next approach is to publish a new RFC with you know basically an update that updates section 4.5 the part that defines the fragmentation header of 8,200 you know it just says this replaces you know replace a section 4.5 with this text you know so it would be a complete set and then the 8200 would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:18",
    "text": "point to the updating document and then the last change is to just do a whole RFC 8200 bits obviously it would be published with some other RFC number so my recommendation is to either either do the you know find the best way to do it in the errata system or publish a new RFC that updates 8200 of course I know there is of course do we want to deprecated fragmentation that would sort of solve this problem quite well you just say don\u0027t do this anymore but I really like the whole for document update like approve the era diocese like whole for document update and probably do the third thing after at some point if you want to do the update let\u0027s do it and one thing since you talked about the RFC like format changes to there\u0027s also like a project on going to do inline erotica so they are see yeah that\u0027s what I was talking about right like so I think it\u0027s if you do the verification first like make sure things stay like instead of filing anyone just like put it in the verifier notes maybe we can actually put it in and and approve it and then do the three if needed after that\u0027s that would be my preference okay so so Suresh since we have three or four router that is essentially for the same issue is are you proposing that we accept those for a router and putting you text in one of them although there were three there\u0027s three in the report so each of them so when you go and verify that already you can put a verifier note in there like which could suggest different text so I would put it in and say like hey this is the text to be used or something right in there so in three tens that I got of like what Fernando suggested and what we\u0027re putting in to solve the same thing like what we meant to say so that\u0027s what I think is the cleanest because like are we can close this and do the other one but I think it\u0027s like a little bit more overhead for me it was a one problem I think with the three is that there\u0027s no direct correlation between the three and a fix I mean there\u0027s there were more problems here you know found when when Bob and I reviewed this so you do you end up with three errata with the same revocation you know new text which could be a bit strange okay could you do one and point to that one to the other ones in a verification text or a subset but shouldn\u0027t be a problem we can talk about the logistics but the thing is like we say we know this is right this changes like you need to make a change and if you say verified like when the in line thing happens the other thing can proceed in paddle so like people can at least see this has been changed I just don\u0027t want to wait for three to happen and like you know wait for like let\u0027s say a year right or maybe faster right but I\u0027m just expecting a year like for the whole thing no let\u0027s keep this very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "file and then people actually see there\u0027s error I exist when they go to the Odyssey page they\u0027re gonna see there are other exists and it\u0027s being verified right so you would suggest you take one hundred book Bob\u0027s suggested verification Tex that we run that through a cycle on the mailing list and and then we send it to you and ask for that to keep it in the yeah okay that\u0027s good and just so I can say it out loud and you do not recommend that we do in RFC 80 200 bits I think that would be bad and for the for Sarah for several reasons and it seems very excessive and once it\u0027s open it\u0027s gonna be we\u0027ll get the redo of a whole bunch of debates we got to do the last three years let\u0027s at least argue about new things yeah good any other questions so I think the the next step is to send out to the list you know I have now and nice I\u0027ll send out both up I\u0027m not going to submit this as drafts but I\u0027ll send out the text you know the original text this new proposed text and a diff and we would like people to review it closely and see see if it\u0027s correct and we didn\u0027t miss anything yeah it would be great if two people different people could implement it as well yeah in the next fortnight please good thank you okay Jen you are up okay raise your hand if you have no idea what this draft is about Oh oh cool I need more slides it okay the wigs a long story short I hope you know what not six ways and dns64 is and unfortunately currently if I deploy not sixteen dns64 in the network some hosts might want to resynthesize themself for example if they oregano validating the resolvers on the host but they have no idea how to find out what prefix to use except using some tricky things like RFC 70/50 when you try to resolve ITV homely name get back what day and guess so probably that\u0027s what were our prefixes but in this case you use an assumption which you got from DNS to do DNS EXO it\u0027s a kind of I see some security here so what we trying to do we\u0027re trying to get an array option which will allow routers to tell hosts what not sixty-four prefix is used because it doesn\u0027t make sense because the router knows where throughout the prefix so it\u0027s a short story of the last two meetings so zero three which I just submitted a couple of hours ago actually not so many changes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "we add that support for non / 96 prefixes in case someone I would need it so as discussed on the previous meeting we decided to have to option lengths if a prefixes / 96 then we have short option of length equal to and we only keep first 96 bits of the prefix but if we need longer prefix you just add prefix length at the very end and have some reader of bits so it would allow us to save some bits on the wire because somehow we have a feeling Z / 96 is the most common use case so in most cases you would not need the longer option it was a current of the mail about routers verifying what other routers are saying in Khan\u0027s assembly and actually it\u0027s in line with slack RFC 48 61 which does recommend routers to verify option sent in array so we are the text which saying routers should look at other arrays received look if it\u0027s the same set of prefixes prefixes with nonzero lifetime prefix 0 lifetime don\u0027t do anything except maybe log it if you want because he obviously router should not make any conclusions but administrators might want to know is there some inconsistency texts explicitly says that if router knows about pvd\u0027s it should only compare information in the same implicit or explicit DVD so it will it was supposed to be unresolved issue slide but now it\u0027s kind of resolved if you slide mark Andrew suggested that we might want to have exclusion list which will tell host a set of v4 and v6 prefixes for which synthesis should not be done so at what actually it\u0027s not exactly correct slight admission last bits of the prefix here but here\u0027s a mock suggested to have to use this resource beats to a DNS name in DNS wire format so we\u0027ve discussed it a bit so we believe that there is no real reason to keep those things in one option because it makes the option format a bit complicated which might actually slow down the implementation and deployment and also I personally have issues with a curator telling me that ipv6 is too complex and difficult to understand so I prefer to keep it simple and also exact semantics of what of this option and what host is supposed to do visit is not actually clear because there is an experimental RFC for APL and so via some clarification I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "would be required to explicitly specify the host behavior also actually this option it would be particularly useful in ipv6 only networks in ipv6 only network if host decides not to do synthesis for a some names it\u0027s not clear what the hosts gonna do but there is no before connectivity end of story so also I did some math I might be wrong but it does not look like we actually save in bits on wire unless the DNS name is really short also it\u0027s a bit clearer for me if it\u0027s a good idea not to refer to have a down array of two experimental RFC in the standard track and also is like side-effect it\u0027s not really important but still if you have a separate option some systems might just prefer to still do 7050 or use PCP or whatever but still use this APL option from the network without actually supporting prefix one option so we discussed it with Mark and he just posted a draft I don\u0027t think it the draft made it to the six month mailing list but here is a reference so he proposed the separate array option for a pal so again as I said I don\u0027t think he forwarded the draft was a mailing list so probably just have a look and I am soliciting feedback on his behalf because he could not be in this room right now so the only thing in this case we are not kind of binding together not trying to get a brief brief six four and APL but again I really do not see the use case in situation when we need to have separate prefixes more than one prefix and separate APL lists honestly like real operational use case is unclear so mmm any comments questions otherwise maybe we think it might be ready for the a working group last call so could I get johannah people who would be willing to review and is interested in this to three really have liked a few more it\u0027s one in the back yeah one related draft since the last caller right yeah excellent okay good so we\u0027ll send out a working group last call for this draft and and ask for two old tears at least two to review thoroughly super Thank You Jen and the next one is gory he\u0027s here if you stay within the time limit so you can even get your adapter back thank you incentives okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:25",
    "text": "so I\u0027m sis fun it\u0027s three stories three Jumbo\u0027s and here\u0027s the great the Giant African elephant jumbo which is a big Victorian story or a big American story I hit with Barnum circus and we\u0027re going to talk about Ric to 675 I\u0027m Corey my co-author is Tom and this is a story about the first jumbo jumbo frames jumbo frames are lovely they\u0027re very very exciting they\u0027re big Ethernet frames up to 9000 bytes jumbo frames exists one of the three Jumbo\u0027s I assist with I will insist does not exist but these ones do exist and we like them jumbo grams while jumbo grams are an ipv6 function where you can send a packet greater than 64 kilobytes you put that package into a frame are you sent across the network there we don\u0027t have a layer 2 that takes a 64 kilobyte frame or even a bigger one so it is a little bit difficult to transport and at one time in the world of ipv6 there was some link layers at least InfiniBand had a way of moving these packets and I don\u0027t believe they now do current status and to 675 is referenced by 17 RFC\u0027s there are three active internet drafts and in the transport area people keep asking us about than what they should say about them what they should do about them then our transport advices don\u0027t touch them at all because we don\u0027t have any checks since we don\u0027t have any protocols that are safe to use with them and we don\u0027t have any way of sending them so that makes them not very attractive Thomas a different viewpoint and Tom\u0027s at which with FreeBSD and he looks at the net dev cord and there\u0027s a whole pile of statements in there based on the RFC which are currently in your FreeBSD stack they don\u0027t want to maintain this code and they have some interesting comments so you can look on their list there they range from burning in fire or please remove it but we can\u0027t remove it because the RFC says it should be there but we can\u0027t send the packet so questions for six month the story of the Victorian jumbo is it got hit by a train and had a very sad ending should we continue to make RS try to make RC to 675 historic this draft that I\u0027ve talked about tries to make a historic by listing where it\u0027s used and what happens or should we leave ours to RC to 675 alarm we have various opinions O\u0027Brien this is all party my fault because at the time this was invented I was in charge of the networks at CERN where people were very concerned about extremely high data rates within the data center they still are by the way and this seemed like a wonderful idea because it matched very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:25",
    "text": "well what hippy and abandoned or one or two other technologies whose named Gordon scalable could here in him to connect I think I\u0027m we\u0027re capable of doing the point is I don\u0027t buy the argument that this is damaging to BSD or any other stack implementation because this is an IDF standard which is entirely optional you don\u0027t have to support it if you do support it you have to do what it says in the RFC but if you don\u0027t support it you don\u0027t have to do anything right except you know if this particular format a packet arrives in your stack you send back an ICMP message if you can be bothered I suppose so I don\u0027t see why it\u0027s damaging to stack implementers unless they don\u0027t understand the voluntary nature of all IETF standards on the other hand the use case has never changed there are still people who want to do extremely high capacity transfers inside datacenters so this in the way I would just leave it exactly where it is and send a letter to the DSD developers pointing out what the laundry standard means hi I\u0027m Bob so just to clarify and clean question based on what you said so regarding say the FreeBSD code is it a fair assumption that because there there are any links that you can test this with if the chance of this code actually working is sort of low because it hasn\u0027t been really exercised there are people who touch and chip on it so the code compiles it still goes through the checker but it does require you to allocate buffers and other things in ways that people don\u0027t really do because they don\u0027t really have any way of testing so when I wouldn\u0027t like to bet that the code works and it certainly hasn\u0027t been reviewed for about ten years or so yeah so it is very old code that is never exercised it\u0027s not actually used doesn\u0027t tend to get better so and networks I would vote for moving it to historic for a couple of reasons first the initial motivation for it you know although brian has a good point the initial motivation has gone away modern line cards can process many millions of packets per second there\u0027s really no need to send a packet that long you can send two packets second it\u0027s a good thing to reduce the real meat to fluff in the RFC series deprecating something that we don\u0027t actually use is a good thing and what\u0027s more doesn\u0027t this use a hop-by-hop option aren\u0027t these the options that we just emasculated maybe this is a good one to make historic well it probably "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:27",
    "text": "only be used between a pair of lincoln points so but yeah yeah so I think I would more second Brian\u0027s Brian\u0027s point when I implemented v6 in iOS for Cisco it was unconceivable to implement this at all because we a we didn\u0027t have any buffers large enough nor they we sought any link layers they can do anything anywhere near this is there any way we could solve this you know either by creating an applicability RFC or you know make the message clear to implementers now that said IDF transport people would do this I explicitly say this is views in controlled environments and if you\u0027re doing it then be careful of these things like because we applied checksums which actually work over this chunk of data you\u0027re doing and beware of big buffers and then writing applicability RFC I don\u0027t know what you would do there are sort of funky stuff going on you know take container networking for example where you do you know plumb things on the same host and you might you know we certainly run that today with 64 km TAS you could certainly imagine someone wanting to do that with a you know 4 billion but kept you if they want to do so I mean I\u0027m a little uncomfortable saying this is historic because you know brothers or oh can we make it some in some fashion that it doesn\u0027t you know create that harm and be thought that you have it in this particular implementation ok yeah Laurence Olivier I think the question is do we you know can we can we on historic eyes it if it wants its historic yeah just we would use an RFC no but to do it but that\u0027s not that difficult I don\u0027t think we can understand an RC number that we\u0027ve made historic which is the change we could start exchanging okay whatever all right coming out there but I don\u0027t see this happening the next 20 years maybe but you know maybe after that the question is do we run out of v6 space before this becomes relevant that\u0027s what yeah so how much work is it to making historic do we need to use up a lot of working group time and like to ITF last call and that\u0027s three mice to do this is Mary Carpenter again I just like to read the relevant paragraph RFC 275 says the jumbo payload option is relevant only for ipv6 nodes that may be attached to links with a link into use greater than 65,000 575 octet yes that is 65535 plus 40 the yumbo payload option need not be implemented or understood by ipv6 modes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:28",
    "text": "that do not support a touching into links with MTU greater than 65,000 575 so you know I don\u0027t understand why anybody including a BSD developer would bother to implement this thing unless they have to influence a driver for a link that supports 65,000 576 bytes you know that\u0027s why I don\u0027t understand why we need to do anything except point the BSD people to a paragraph which says don\u0027t bother with this it\u0027s not your problem this conversation will probably be noted and we could probably make results on the basis of what\u0027s being talked about right now when we get to Sirach that comment also say that even though there may not be links that where this could be transmitted there might be like loopback virtual kind of links right that is where the where we tested the code and found the horrible problems that occurred when you did try and use it in loopback and try and do the buffer management and what the heck and all the other gremlins that crept in which is where this story started it is indeed testable thank you right and does it what yeah whatever yep whatever you build it house when you doing you\u0027d be well-advised please please do that yeah I\u0027m waiting for anyone to step up and say I\u0027m using this and I I don\u0027t expect there is anyone I\u0027m not a big fan of leaving that specs around and those counters at that spec I think and even if one person uses this I think they\u0027re okay with implementing an historic RFC so I rather have it moved to historic just to flag that yeah suresh krisshnan no hat no hat no what so I think you should just let it be like don\u0027t do anything I think like I\u0027m happy like it\u0027s it\u0027s clearly says if you if you don\u0027t have to do it or if you don\u0027t have the capability of doing it don\u0027t do it and if somebody tries says with like large MTU is like one thing I was like specifically talking about other stuff like I\u0027ve seen stuff using memmio like for like doing like container pipelines that could potentially use this and if this breaks horribly somebody needs to fix it right rather than taking it away so I would just say let it be and then if something breaks we fix it like I think it\u0027s an implementation that needs to get fixed if it uses it so but I mean the ad hat on whatever the most loop does I would probably go for the status change documents as a way of doing it I think he was option number yeah yeah it\u0027s the easiest way it\u0027s completely out of pan so I don\u0027t need an ID to go through the process and at this point I\u0027d debug this I did this for IP version 5 and 7 and 9 and so on so I I know the process now and I\u0027m around for a bit so I\u0027ll just make sure if this gets done and now even "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:29",
    "text": "goes to Ayane to mark it as historic so previously the process was never tested Vienna never marked those things as he\u0027s starting because they never got a review me so now it\u0027s all debug and we can do that okay and we need to decide what to do with other documents as they appear in reference this as well because and people are still writing transport documents saying that you have to support this which kind of like and good weight which is super but they don\u0027t consider the checksum or any of you the other implications that go with it so yeah so think about that and I\u0027m I\u0027ll take this output wake up from here of the achievements at least at references because that has to be cleared up okay can I just just I would support a short document saying that basically all right yeah we should update two to six seven five so who appear in the record and would say you know by the way this what that means is don\u0027t do this it seriously then it would appear as an updates you could point you talking pelisek as a parent RFC and Brian a shim you\u0027re willing to help co-author that if I if we were to write it would you help us do it right fine take my adapter please take your adapter take it thanks a lot for lending your night I think if I remember correctly it is wrong that is up yes okay Ron Bonica and I\u0027ve got three drafts in this working group one about a compressed routing header one about a destination option to be executed at the end of a segment routing path one about one to be executed in the middle of a segment at the end of a segment in a segment routing path and this time around I wrote an overview document explaining what these three things are doing and why they exist we\u0027re gonna go through the overview document for a little bit so we have these things called segment routing paths they provide connectivity from an ingress to an egress and they contain segments there are instructions associated with each segment there are two kinds of instructions topological instructions and service instructions so let\u0027s talk about topological instructions every segment in an SR path is associated with exactly one topological instruction it\u0027s executed at the segment ingress node it determines what the segment egress node is and how the segment ingress routes the packet to the segment egress either strict or suit loose source routing and some details what it does is what the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:29",
    "text": "instruction does is it overwrites the destination address and it forwards either through an interface or through the least-cost path and we encode and code this in an ipv6 routing header you\u0027ve seen that presentation before it\u0027s the compressed routing header then we have these things called service instructions they augment a path they don\u0027t define a path and we have two kinds of certain service instructions per segment service instructions that can be executed at any segment end point they typically don\u0027t influence routing they don\u0027t influence whether you go left or right some examples are expose a packet to a firewall policy or expose a packet to a sampling policy we encode those in a destination option header that precedes the routing header we just talked about why do we do that because the destination option header is processed at the egress of each segment then we have per path service instructions they\u0027re executed on the path egress node on the aggressive the final segment they typically de encapsulate the packet and D multiplex the payload an example D encapsulate a packet and forward the payload through this interface into this VPN typically they look an awful lot like MPLS service instructions and l3 VPNs or an e VPNs or something like that and we encode those in a destination option the header that precedes the upper layer header why did we choose to encode them there because the destination option header that ADEs the upper layer header is processed on exactly the right node on the path egress or on the aggressive the cut glass segment now why did we go through such pains to decouple service instructions from topological instructions okay um one reason is so that we could use the right header for the right kind of instruction when we compare topological instructions with routing headers they book they\u0027re both intended to affect routing that\u0027s why they\u0027re called routing headers and they\u0027re executed on the segment ingress node why did we use the do h preceding the routing header for person segment instructions because they\u0027re executed on the right node same same question for the destination header preceding the upper layer header for per path instructions it\u0027s because they\u0027re executed on the node where we want them to be executed in we call this SR v6 + but in this formulation we have simplified identifier semantics in SR b6 and SRV 6 plus we have this concept of a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:29",
    "text": "CID I\u0027m sorry we have this concept first of a service instruction identifier a service instruction identifier identifies a service instruction it appears in the destination option header and it\u0027s not polluted with CID or ipv6 address semantics we have a CID that identifies a topological instruction it appears in the RH and only in the RH and it\u0027s not polluted with SII or ipv6 semantics we also have an ipv6 address that appears only in the ipv6 header and it\u0027s not polluted with Sid or SII semantics it has exactly the semantics from the ipv6 addressing architecture an ipv6 address identifies an interface and we\u0027re very careful never to copy an identifier of one type to a field that\u0027s meant for an another type for instance we have SIDS in the routing header we never copy a Sid to a destination address in fact they\u0027re different lengths we couldn\u0027t do it if we wanted to why do we do that well it\u0027s the same reason you don\u0027t copy a pointer of one type to a field that dereferences through another type it\u0027s kind of asking for trouble so what is the cost benefit analysis here well the cost is because our SIDS are different from our from an ipv6 address we have a layer of another layer of indirection a SID is a key into a data structure we call it a SID fib the SID fib Maps acid\u0027 to an ipv6 address and an instruction you do a lookup and the SID and the S fib you find the address and you copy the ipv6 address field to the destination address of the ipv6 header we have one more routing header type the you know the CRH albeit it\u0027s it\u0027s a simpler one it has fewer fields than the SRH and we have two new destination options one to carry segment instructions one to carry path instructions benefits ping okay half my time is up okay we\u0027ve already talked about the rh @ simplified no tag no tlvs the SID identifies an instruction it does not contain an instruction so it can be encoded in relatively few bits and because the SID is short the routing header can be short even when it contains very very many segments in the SID list and there\u0027s no need to augment OAM because the only thing that ever appears in a destination address is an IP address so ping and traceroute all that stuff works the other good thing is you can mix and match you can use the routing header Terrell but you can use a V n ni 2d multiplex if you don\u0027t want to use the destination option so if you\u0027re doing evpn you could have an ipv6 header "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "followed by a routing header for traffic engineering followed by a VPN and I if you want to do just plain ol DV or let\u0027s say you don\u0027t want to use a VN and I but you want the path the track of traffic to take the least-cost path ipv6 header with a destination hop shut option you don\u0027t need the routing header decoupling you can use only what you need overall simplicity the existing drafts kind of cover the entire subject here\u0027s a little comparison of CRH lengths per said vs. SRH lengths now granted in the last two weeks there have been two proposals for making the SRH more compact so those numbers are a little bit old but they were correct the day I wrote the slides about nine days ago we have a couple implementations one in Linux and it has the control plane whether dices and all that good stuff we have a Juno\u0027s proof of concept coming soon and the next steps are to progress the drafts I\u0027m not even going to ask for that because the first one has to go first through spring anyhow questions yeah so just add I mean so we went to the spring working group where you presented same a good time was had by all yes so I mean I didn\u0027t seem like there was a lot of enthusiasm just to take this on in spring or at least now or something so there have been discussions since the group ok well that\u0027s good but that\u0027s not you know for us to spend a significant time on this I think you know we\u0027re gonna need to hear from spring that it\u0027s something there they want to investigate so I\u0027m sitting less responsibility here so like this is what I said it\u0027s spring right so like similar to like what we did with asara it\u0027s like we didn\u0027t like allow any kind of follow-up work for SRH until death arresting was not right and so I want to go pretty much the same way so like you know spring tells like they gonna know this thing is like a kind of architecture and they sign off on it and then we start doing the follow-up work that\u0027s required to implement it like so that\u0027s kind of like what we agreed upon and that\u0027s yeah I think I think that\u0027s what like Bob was alluding to us all right so just just like a gatekeeping function and it\u0027s not here it\u0027s in spring and the gatekeeper is about to step up behind you master the routing ad for spring so you should expect a message from the spring chairs soon on the list to kick up a discussion on the next steps for that and other proposals that have been discussed so I guess the bottom line is subscribe to the spring mailing list if you don\u0027t already so thank you much thank you Ron "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "our next speaker is safar you have 10 minutes sublet thank you so I\u0027m going to present as our v6 onn Draft on behalf of the co-authors and contributors this work is started about two years ago and it has been presented to six men as well as praying working group multiple times including exactly one year ago when we were here in Montreal and I had a presentation on a spring yesterday and the ricean was the disease and this is a six man document so here we are so with these things there has been a lot of good comments sent on the mailing list and they have been incorporated thanks to all the working group this has been deployed the draft based implementation have been deployed in multiple production networks including Softbank channel telecom and elite the details are available publicly in the draft that is mentioned here for deployment status and there are 10 platforms that support this implementation of this draft this is also based on the public information which is listed as a source and there has been interoperability done on this draft and this was done publicly in March 2008 by EA and TC then they were showcased at in April in MPs were Congress there are there were additional interoperability that was done privately but for the public the information is available in the source draft that is mentioned here now coming back to draft summary is very simple it is relying on existing ICMP mechanism it does not define any new mechanism why CMP when we have a service 6 deployed there obviously or nodes on orders are visible and they work seamlessly then for some use cases define the use of the obut if you remember the orbit used to be in a suresh draft it was there for a long time until the last call and the comment was that it needs to be moved to onm draft where is using is defined so it was moved and there it also defined to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "sits to behavior for O\u0026M using this information it illustrate it provides some illustration on how we can use this these tools for doing thing end to end segment by segment trace route of behad segment by segment and also how is our SC 8400 3 which is just part monitoring is applicable with that and multiple production requirement is interrupt done and and various implementations that are available and this work has been mature who like the working group threat of this today Gregory City I have a couple comments so first I think it\u0027s a useful document and it addresses tool that is probably the most used poem to ever traceroute and peeing so definitely operators who appreciate this work though I want to point that there is some inconsistency how their draft is named and what it addresses so it refers to SR v6 om but I believe that a service six om is broader and then just finding traceroute so you might be somewhere along the way working on this draft the name can be more targeted towards their scope of the document I think that looking at what requirements for adoption that draft is ready for adoption call and then working group we can discuss whether you know hold it is the right way to do it because so far as I know ping and traceroute in other networks work without obit so why it\u0027s needed that\u0027s something that we can discuss as a working group yeah thanks big on the name chain hundred percent agree with you please suggest something it could be changing it becomes a particular document and working group can contribute to it and make the changes like you\u0027re proposing so we can be a bit more next time and speaking as a contributor document as Greg said operators will appreciate so my appreciation for this document I think it\u0027s a useful work and we are have plans something which we can use in our production network Ron Bonica no particular opinion about whether it should progress or not but a question about a word you use in the draft and that is to punt a packet I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "assuming to punt the packet I assume you\u0027re talking about punting from the forwarding plane to the control plane and I\u0027m assuming you your your assumption is that the device that\u0027s processing it has distinct forwarding and control planes not all devices habit of state forwarding and control planes and it\u0027s kind of a discussion about an internal behavior maybe the OAM should only talk about externally observable behaviors if Ronnie feels I just seen some other world or we can were dismiss it yeah yeah yeah perfect thank you Molly and I support this decision because I think the deployment and the implementation and deployments have are there so I think the context is matter so it could be better to move forward and though there are some needs inside the jobs so welcome to contribute to the jobs yeah thanks you need some additional software are they operate already deployed a service if I really appreciate this work and I hope this throughout moving forward and as these drafts define the orbit at the head of the escalator I think would be good to keep name away and all this other physics not to change others okay so so Bob and I have talked with the spring chairs in the past about this and it\u0027s always a little hard to find where the right home is for these documents where we collaborate with spring we are happy to take it on here but I think that you know the gating factor is of course do we have enough interest in the working group to to work on this document here or should it be done in in spring is pretty much a matter of how many spring people we get in combination with six man people in this room so before we do an adoption hum I could I just get a you know set of hands that are the people that are willing and interested working on this Oh fantastic good excellent so um Jory\u0027s in unit 8 I call first or should we do the hub what one other thing for the record I mean I did I was specifically this question to the chair yesterday is on the recording they were perfectly happy to six men to work on this in six men I mean it\u0027s basically the finding a bit in the air sorry chatter I mean and then how it was fused "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:39",
    "text": "and all that but that\u0027s I think to me that was the key thing so unless the 80s in the room have objections we they do know so description so I had no objection like for you to do that I think all confirm on the list and okay super okay so those in favor or adopting this document as a working group document in six-man please hum now and those who oppose adopting this document in six-man please come now don\u0027t be so silent people I mean there must be one objector excellent then we will take the confirm that on the on the list fantastic thanks a lot so far thank you and I think that was the working group documents and the active individual drafts sorted out the rest of the time here will be spent on lightning talks five minutes each for drafts very limited time for questions I think we have a little bit time right or we\u0027re just about right yeah so yes please come up and do the application where v6 networking talk okay okay since they say the Jimmy from Hobby Lobby so this topic is the application we are ipv6 networking so we I P v6 go on move forward okay so this is the architecture for the application we are ipv6 networking because we know now that\u0027s the our the transporter no network a feast of the Challenger over the bottleneck because we always the ban us a user increase the budget you can notice at the revenue from this service better so we think about this the combine this is the application information with the transporter network to provide a better service so there\u0027s a and also the finer granularity the service for the better s area compliance so this is the purpose so we think the ipv6 is a suitable tool for the purpose because of here we consider the in the edge node of the network we can encapsulate the application we are information so this application we are information include the application ID ID and the service parameter so this is the parameter can be carried by the packet through the ipv6 if general header to the transport and network edge node so the transport and network are added in order according to the application we are information to make him to a suitable the SR v6 the path to satisfy the SLA requirement and also this is the application information can be committed to the SR v6 the SR is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:42",
    "text": "extension header so there\u0027s the middle tones of the SR path and also to you would accuse killed to satisfy the asari requirement to propose device the application information so as the US node of the transport network so that\u0027s the I sorry six the feather will be stripped and we will go on to the as the for whether the package and this is a forward pass another reverse pass maybe this is a packet usually forward from the cloud and to that transfer the transport network this is the similar the process so this is the information probe host in the draft so the first we propose the application ID a we are ID in the user can be carried in the hubba-hubba header or carried by the is ID header or maybe the destination header depend on the different scenario so the application header we can\u0027t divide it into the sra level that means that\u0027s the course granulated and also it can also take some of the application ID or the user ID or the flow ID so that\u0027s the user depend on this the difference is the ID you had the finer granularity for the application identification so and also that we also carry the service requirement a parameter the parameter can be the pan wise the delay and the delay variation or the packet loss ratio the dependence is a service requirement a parameter it can map to the SR v6 pass or for the queues process okay so this morning we have this the 18 6a the meeting so here there\u0027s a user thanks to the attendees so that\u0027s we have this the 50 plus these members so here we have this to the reach for the presentation and that is caution so that\u0027s we discussed the possible application information can read through by a salute to the network and also the possible application we are service including the detonator om or the UNCG OEM and also the at last of the said meeting we do the investigation and the consensus one minute you don\u0027t take the questions before your time reserve okay okay so that\u0027s the we seen this is all valuable because across the area and the multiple working group so that\u0027s what we would like to apply the meaning easter to foster the communication okay that\u0027s all Germany host developers in the room because I could see how many of them would be very very very concerned about privacy implications of this type of technology hmm okay were there any in fact this morning we talked about this yeah the security and the progress our usual yeah we will cope with it yeah the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:44",
    "text": "same same question I noticed the security considerations at TBD and so I was kind of curious if you had any considerations in your online yeah as an author these are good questions to bring to the list thank you thank you thank you next ipv6 encapsulation for IO am that is yes financed country starting no okay so shooting from Huawei I will introduce the ipv6 encapsulation for IO IO am and also this also involves the enhancement for the ipv6 extension headers so the car in the solution for supporting the IOM is to place the IOM data into the hop by hop options header and the destination options header but there may be a risk if we do it in this way we may put push the routing header out of the parsing window under under chipset so our proposal is to separate the instruction part and the recording part we define the uniform ipv6 service option and as the to carry the instruction part of the path services and that depends on the path if all the node along the path ipv6 enabled we could place the instruction part of the part services in the harbor hop options header and if some of the nodes along the path I services enabled and we like to monitor the network performance of the I service expose we could also place them in the Isar HERV so generally the instruction part of the historicist are fixed so that could facilitate the hardware processing we also define a unifying the container to carry the recording part and that is to record the service metadata of the IOM and also probably other path services so that would enable us to stop recording when we found that they are already too much data so that could avoid reaching the hardwire limitation and so we could find that there are more and more of our services that we require to process the information carried in their pockets and such as I am and we would like to - the operation on the IOM to be performing a hub a hub minor but at a wire speed and how I were currently probably due to the lack of service requirements as well as the limited hardware processing capabilities may be so the hardware that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:44",
    "text": "the Hopis hub options are usually assigned to a slow pass so that will reduce the forwarding performance and also along the path if the devices are from different vendors and that they may have different the handlings of the hop by hop options header so that will cause the entry and service inconsistency and so the desire the precising procedure is not there in the currently existing specifications if you want to take some questions yes sure so can we do it can we solve it by configuration and there may be a few things so if way down that in devs in this way so one thing is all the options in the header may be treated in the same way another thing is we if we do some engineering on each option tab we need to check against those options one by one so that is also not very friendly so we propose to have a yin house the hub I hop options header and we place all options that are required to be treated at wire speed in in this header and then accordingly we will need some specifications and for the ipv6 metahit metadata header and that is unified metadata header and that is used to carry the metadata so the location we recommend to place it after the routing header but there are still two options for this two options we need to consider the interaction of this by the data and the other like a of the indication had are yes V and a fragment header I think we have to write you know do you want to run through the questions or the market online so we get some feedback on this I think that\u0027s valuable and we have 40 seconds please okay Greg nurse Det I share your concerns and I will suggest you rather than putting data in a packet look at the proposal in IPP and working group that called hybrid two-step it puts in a train packet which shares the same encapsulation which ensures that it reverses the same path as your trigger packet so we use your packet to trigger your measurement and you put your measurements in a follow-up packet you\u0027re not concerned about size and you\u0027re not concern about getting out of fast memory and the procedure the process described in a proposal allows you to have multiple packets follow the trigger packet so very quickly Frank yeah Frank program so real quick we had a discussion on encapsulation of IOM and v6 in six-man last time and we had another discussion and I in I ppm this time about how to go and kind of Co word between these two working groups very similar to the spring six-man arrangement and from my recollection of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:44",
    "text": "things as the conclusion is to progress the work in our DPM first and then update six men and lay six months once we progress the word there to a maturity level and then ask for review here and I do believe that with that in mind the work should be long to occupy em first okay thank you and you have five minutes yep lucky day Karuna ladies and gentlemen and today my topic is past segments encapsulation is a v6 so basically we have introduced per segment in as Paris because we do need a post segment you identify the pause but why do we need the pass segments in Si v6 that is a question right because the seed least I know we know that I will not have the series we can use that to identify the past but think about it of the packets a Kemp\u0027s from the past one which carries the seed list contains such as for seeds and you have to scan the whole for seeds to ID to get the ID to identify the past and regarding the second package such as packet B comes from a non pause which has the mauryans such as six C\u0027s and then you have to use the ID which is more than six plus six multiplied it s se as ID tried to an identify the past it\u0027s crazy right but so that is the reason why we propose fixed when the ID which code which is called per segment right in your pass and it would be insert in the specific a location which is the last entry in the seed list so that is the main idea let\u0027s take a look up the format of document as I\u0027ve a six per second basically we propose to format of the service six per segment the first one follows the format of normal as I\u0027ve succeed which has the which has two parts the first one is located and the second one is function ID by the way you can add some information such as our and into the seat and the second one is we can use a globe I teach identify D as a v6 postman and the specific format of it is based on the specific use cases so that is the main almost the main idea of a v6 power segment and we now go into the details of the processing of s a v6 power segment and by the way we have we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:46",
    "text": "have done some work on control blends such as PCE extension and BGP extension and comments are working which sorry which node consumes the data the egress and by the way is not a destination option first of all we can get in the past ID very quickly in the router header instead of that state destination option header and then I am pretty sure that the fixed length and in fixed lens information in a specific location we have much better processing performance than the tier V in the destination option there Woodmere option that would be option let\u0027s talk about this of life thank you no I think that\u0027s the option but we would like a keep the integrity of the SRS would like to keep it as I yes thank you thank you you managed in four minutes okay then it is Safari again on IOM and you have K five minutes from now thank you so I am going to go over stuff it is similar to what shebang was mentioning but in the context of network that is our v6 capable the one of the and I\u0027m presenting on may I be on behalf of my quarters one of the issues with IOM and and we went to a lot of discussion with respect to collecting data is availability of data on a given node is not capable of recording the data and is do I need the data from all the node in my network and if I start probing in bang on all the node in the in the network would I cause a problem for deviating from the very set of data them trying to collect so overhead as I go and start collecting this data if I\u0027m sitting in SRV six Network segment endpoint has a very reason that I\u0027m going through a segment endpoint because I there is a topological reason to go through it it\u0027s interesting point and can I just collect data on from segment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:47",
    "text": "endpoint only and can I only collect data from segment but data capable of recording the data so all of these questions are answered by this draft by by using the network program availability notion of SRV six you can only collect data that are capable a node which is not capable recording the data does not have to look into TLV it will bypass everything it doesn\u0027t have to always look into and scan so mean point in as we collect I own em data we should make sure that we are not affecting the very stream that we are collecting the data from and I believe that this this graph is very useful it can collect from a very strategic points and it can only end the nodes that are not capable of recording the data can skip the TLV processing which is expensive and I at the moment is lightning talk so we\u0027ll just like to hear feedback from the working group fantastic that is three minutes and 52 seconds yes thank you and the last lightning talk we have is on detonate the survey six data plain encapsulation and this is just all from javi and I will give a very brief introduction about our work and that\u0027s not actually the basic idea of then that is quite simple for some critical service or flows the current network is not good enough we want to we wanted to do better for example bundle latency extremely low data loss and the low jitter so we have to make the network do better with a lot a group of new technologies why the network is not enough for example in the network there is congestion which can cause the latency and and the congestion loss so we will use resource allocation to the to along the paths for 10s service and we also use queueing management for the 10s service and also if there is other loss because of meteor arrows our equipment fili we will use a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:48",
    "text": "service protection that means in some particular know the we will do a peculiar replication and the packet after replicated will go along different paths through the network and again in another note the packet will the redundant packet will be eliminated and the the left one will go through and also to make the 10s ERISA table we also have to rely on the explicit pass so this presentation is about how to implement the net in SR e6 domain here are some requirement for the SRS 6 for example the first one we have to identifying the SRS 6 payload type and also we have to find a suitable explicit pass for the Dynaflow this is supported by our six naturally and in order to do the service protection as mentioned in the previous slide we have to to indicate the packet to packet replication elimination of the ordering function to implement these functions we require extra information for example the tunnel flow identification and sequence number and also we have to use the as our age to carry a queuing and a forwarding indication to do congestion protection but this part is not covered in our current version of the draft so what can we do we list some option to do this especially for carrying flow identification a sequence number we can carry it in as RIT TLV we can carried it in the same in the list inside a seed to to define new functions and arguments also we can define a dozen at C naught for routing just a fort and a service this is all of our of my presentation and why I bring here is that I want I think this is a very interesting example to afford for people to see that what can we do with the SRA six and as our age and perhaps we can have good feedback from the six men working group so I got trying into being the loops buff chair earlier in the week and this reminds me very much of the problem statement that loops had and of course they\u0027re doing a that\u0027s you know as a non working group forming golf I mean I\u0027m sure they would and probably you would as well appreciate it if you could have a look at their problem statement and perhaps post your draft or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:50",
    "text": "subscribe to that list because there looks like there is a lot of overlap it they in the problem they\u0027re trying to solve and also meet with or at least you know they\u0027re just in a problem defining stage but they weren\u0027t thinking of solving it there\u0027s rb6 but it certainly looks very much like the same problem loop local optimization right I think it\u0027s not similar problem because do it I think the problem for loop is that it wants you bring some flow control method between the edge node of a domain but for doesn\u0027t ask it\u0027s I think it\u0027s not the same we\u0027re done okay thank you thank you very much so we have completely the agenda and about one time so thank you very much and we will see you all in Singapore and if anyone can bring the blue sheets up to us that would be appreciated does anyone have the blue sheets they\u0027re missing "
  }
]