[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:17",
    "text": "Okay. Man. Has started Before we begin, anybody who would like take notes, but this session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:14",
    "text": "Yeah. We won't be able to start unless we have a notetaker. I can do Okay. Thank you. So this is, TSB Working Group. The second session. We are in a very small room this time. So please squeeze in. Don't leave any free seats so that everybody can can sit down. This is. You should know this by now. It contains our policies regarding intellectual property and our code of conduct, and other things. Please familiarize yourself with this. This is the agenda of of today's session. This is the first slide of the agenda. That's the second one. We will start with the Detail S SCTP work. And after that, We'll discuss careful resumption And then we will hopefully have time to get to 2 individual drafts. About signaling things to the network. Any agenda, miss? That is not the case. So let's get started. Is Michael here?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "He's here. I'm remote. I'll get up your flight Okay. This is a status updates. For the work of, updating SFP authentication. Next slide. This is the scope, at least my understanding of the scope, Take the RFC 4895. Is this incorporate relevant changes from, this document, which wasn't individual contributions some time ago, then address 2 security issues, which have been reported by Ericsson, One is related to the direction is of the not direction herself. The case And, The second is, that keys will be used with different HMAC algorithms. Was the proposal on the list to generalize Hmax to max. Because, the document always talks about HMAC and and you can have different ones, but sticking formally to age mix, have more agreements than the one which is specified potentially retire age make based in Shawan. And,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "Add some socket API considerations for improved control of the of your auth messages. The the current state, or the current socket API is specified in the big ROC, which defines the software API reports that was done. Later then. RC, 4895. Next slide. So here you see the history, the first takes, things where individual contributions, the 00 document was the same as the last individual one only submitted working your document. There are 1 incorporated The older best documents and editorial changes and the left date to the IR section and the security issues were dressed in the 2nd, the o two version, where where I basically describe how to use directional keys In the same way as it was done in the RFC 4890 highs for their renewals. Dire changes, Next slide. This is the initial handshake just to refresh that if you wanna do SAP authentication, you add a random parameter to the edited in an act, which can contain an arbitrary law random number, and it's required, for the eyebrithens, used here to be a 32 byte random number. A chance parameter, which basically list the chunks, which are which will only be received by the send off this parameter in an HVAC algorithm. Parameter, which says which HMIC algorithms are allowed to be received."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Next slide. So this is the the updated key management, The first thing is that both sides exchange random parameters, and The handshake is modified in a way that, The parameters are different. So this is easy to to get when you have a client server thing. So the client chooses the random parameter, and the server chooses 1, which is not. The one received. Like, critical point here is if you have a collision of the innate chunk So both sides act as a client, Then In the case of both sides, choose the same 32 byte random number. You might need to change, send in a board and choose a different premium number, but this is very rare collision on 32 by random numbers. Figure out from that, you create a local and remote key vector Basically by, concatenating the random parameter, the chance parameter, and the HMAC algorithm parameter. And, you do this The local key is based on the parameters. You send the remote key is based on the parameters you have chosen. So both sides have a local and remote, and the local of one side is the remote of the other. And in this case, they are different because the random parameters are different. Next slide. From that, you concatenate by concatenating, key vectors, you get a sent context, and receive context And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "you get a send key and receive key by using key derivation function, where you use the send context or receive context and a shared key. The shared key is what is configured own me via the API, so both sides can configure multiple shared keys, and you derive the send key and receive key here. Using the key derivation function from RFC 5926. Which is a CTP, TCP authentication action. There is one special case. The special case is, when they key ID is 0, which means the the shared key is empty. That is if you don't if you start right at the beginning and you don't have any else. The text in the document is not as generic is given here in the slides. But it's done explicitly using HVAC Shar to 56. Next slide. There is backwards compatibility, so node which supports the the best document can interrupt with an version which supports on the the old version. As long as it's enabled by the upper layer explicitly, and then the send and receive key are computed by the minimum of the local key and remote key, the shared key, and the maximum. So in that case, We don't."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "Ensure that the random parameters are different and the send key and receive key are equal. This is, putting the old way in this form of context. Next slide. The auth chunk is then computed by using a MAC based on the 10 key and the chunks, And That is not changing. Between our chief 48.95 into this document. Next slide. So the next steps, double checking here, because there was some discussion on on the mailing list. The intention of 48, 4895 has not been, to improve the replay protection of transport sequence numbers. So, It only makes sure that you accept channels which have been sent and you used the replay protection from the base protocol, If we want to change this, Next. Could be done, but, for example, you could do sequence number extensions, but you need to do this then for Reconfig channels, AF config, AS config channels, and type dated chunks and second chunks. However, the one use case for for this is DTLS where data chunks are relevant. Another use case is, is address reconfiguration, and so you don't have the sequence numbers for the data So this is right. So this is this wasn't. Intended by the base, by the original spec, and Right now, it's also it's it's unchanged."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "What I plan to do is, to use a fault formula based description of the Of the key handling similar to what I did here. And then it is pretty easy to generate from a HMAC to Mac. It's a change which will address names of protocol elements. It will change soccer API names. So it's it's a larger editorial change that's why I wanted to be like and we want to we can add more algorithms. I just right now, edit, H Max chart 2 56 in a directional way. And, of course, I go through comments received and, upcoming comments. The comments received. I tried to address, and get give give at least some feedback in guitar. That's it from my side. Any questions, comments? John, I First of all, we think that the replay protection for data that there should be replay protection for data. But if you don't, that, I think it very essential that The draft describes that you don't have any replay protection. I think what is stated here is not really improving the replay protection. I wouldn't put it. I I would say not improve the the duplication handling or something. I think SCTP and SCTP what does not have replay protection in the security. So I think the right term, if you don't fix this, is that this STTP does not provide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "replay. Protection, and then you come filling with, like, the deep duplication and and so on, but, yeah, It makes it so so it tries to say it already, I think. And it doesn't improve it, but we can says that we can we if you if you think the wording is not good enough, we can change the wording. Okay. Yeah. I'll book read you and comment on that. Any comments on add more algorithms, Corey. Hello. Do you think you'll need to Finish your next. So if you could provide influence. Change the change to a formula description, generalize HMAC to Mac By the left side here if we can have that. I think I put some text in the issues raised already. So they they are GitHub issues. We can address them Add more algorithms depends on on feedback I get. So I won't go through an arbitrary list and add more algorithms without any without getting any Suggestions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "I mean, we could go with the algorithms which are used by TCP AL. Okay. That was helpful. Anyone else want to comment on any of these topics? Thank you, Michael. That looks looks like good progress. So the next topic Is a report back from, Design Team, This set of slides has a lot of information in, and It's being presented here to help the working group. So But at any point in the talk, do you think it's helpful to Ask questions ease join the queue. If you think you have an idea that is different to what's being presented, please also join the queue. Burbson's design team is for us to make progress particularly with the requirements So over to Magnus to try and, Sure. Has been Yeah. So k. I'm here to report on the design team, so we can go to the next slide to see who were involved. In the time team work. And then get on to next people, next slide. So when it comes to the general requirements, the Simon team discussed this before New Air may have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "fairly good understanding already by the last eight years. When we presented the last time, And, we we do think what, We know what, what what what our view on the free to people needs what's been discussed by the contributors and design team And what we did after the idea first is discuss a bit more and assign some priority certain aspects. And that was captured in that PowerPoint slide on the GitHub. That's a working material. Thumb. Let's go on to the next slide. So we have worked with 3 proposals on the table, a is the, what's the current working group documents set, which is update of 683. With, and is contained in the detail as a recipe based document in front of the working group and also has a dependent on as updated this view of proposal b is Alright. Ericsson's, proposal for updating or replacing that proposal, which is covered in two parts. There's one detail is chunk covering the aspects, which goes into the asset piece stack. And, handshaking and retaining functionality on top of STB stack. It's a draft Westland TSB SSB Detless handshake. Then we have the 3rd proposal, which you see, which, the primary proposal comes from Michael Jackson and it's show fedding, but it's also others involved in that? Which is, draft tax and TCD is 60 to 3 biz. So this is also based on similar structure, 60 to 3 base, but it has then one base, one thing for dealing with the user message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "fragmenting, which is this PPID fragment, which is a separate function, which, could be used in other contexts too. So that's a separate document. The, STP auth update and a key update, a proposal, which has been proposed to t to TLS working group. As well as using RFC 9261 for periodic authentication. So That whole set of documents is what's c. So okay. Let's go on to the next slide. So the analysis which design teams agreed on is is that all of the free solution proposals meets the design teams degree technical requirements. Proposal differs in some technical details and properties. We'll look more on them, later. There's difference in what IPR claims exist. And their impact of, for example, on potential to do open source SSP implementations. And the expected time frames to complete the work here in ITS. Some. And we'll go through each of these now. So next slide. So when it comes to completion time, for a, this would all be work done in tsbwd, SDBOF needs to be completed as well as the settings, it's as spec needs to be completed. The estimate from the Driving authors here is that this work could be ready for publication request the end of this year. For b All work would be in t/cw working And also here, we could expect group. to be ready by for publication request by theendoftheyear. When it comes to see, There's dependency on this adopting this key update in TLS."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "This was discussed before this, in this morning, It was not ready to be adopted at this point. So that's my further, delayed this estimate on Times scale? Also, here is the need for S to be off need to be completed. And the, Also, here, kind of the estimate was that the TSBWD parts could likely be application by the endoftheyear. However, so the really long, the question, how fastest could be completed and I def is depending on the key update patch. Maybe anyone wants to fill in anything or comment on the what happened in TELIA this morning. Or should we take that afterwards? So, Yep. Go ahead, Don. Yeah. John Mattson, there was, In general, people seem to to Mostly like the idea of doing it, people did not quite many people did not like the changes from 00 to 1, especially doing things on the application layer. And the Yeah. So I think the consensus was that this needs more work. And then I I think it depends depending on where you there was also a lot of discussion about formal verification in the TLS worker. If you would do any changes to the key schedule. For example, you would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "likely require formal verification, which, like, probably takes that that a year by itself. Yeah. K. Thank you, John. Any additional comments on this? Yeah. The the the change between o o and 01. Am I the the suggestion, the proposal and 00 was to do it in the TLS layer and the feedback we got on the mailing list was to do it above. So that was then changed in 01 and the feedback That was the feedback on the mailing list. So the feedback on in the room or it, during the session, was that people like the the approach and the 0 version more. So it was It was, changed due to feedback but, but, that feedback changed or different people provided feedback. K. Let's go on to the next slide. So when it comes to IPR, on solution a, there's 2 white party closures with fair reasonable and on disputed terms. You see that period iterations there. On, b, there's a bit complex, more complex situation on the parts that goes in the SDP stack, there's a defense declaration with the opposite option of very simple and non dictionary terms. Please read the disclosure, and for the key stab handshaking and key establishment and rekeying, there's another disclosure which is just front. So on on c, there's no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "currently, you know, IPR disclosures. So that the situation there, Next. Now we, So a little bit about the implication of this IVR. So basically for a, you would have likely need to do 2 runs license, supplying to any implementations on the top of the STB stack for these details for SDP functionality. For b, So depending on here, it's It's the partners in the STTP stack. Which has the defense declaration, And if that's if you meet those requirements, you wouldn't need a license. But, and this license was written in this way try to not impact kernel open source. And Then you also would need a RAM license on the reking implementation on top of the STP stack. And as I said, CS note, currently IPO declarations, Oh, Yep. Next slide. A Kmartin. Martin Duke, Google. No hats. Is So you're you're doing your own rekeying thing here. If I understand correctly, This has a rekeying method. Option c is rekeying method that will require formal analysis in TLS. Does this require form form analysis, or does it somehow evade that requirement. It's I would say that you're on the responder a bit, but say I would Yeah. The rekeying in solution b is just DKLS resumption. So there's nothing new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "at all. Yeah. Yep. K. Good. So on the, more details so regards to what the differences, the mind differences on postal a. So a is depending on the TLS 1.3. Figures, and that's includes the the terrace connection ID but we have noted that, we could have do a fairly simple reengineering all that to avoid the need for the details connection ID. The kind of biggest issue we've had here is around Vkeying. And because the detail as messages, or you as the Upperly message being sent is protected by DTS and those messages might be sent over different streams at the same time, etcetera. You have a bit of a tracking to do to figure out when all all detail as records protected by an old key has been passed. It should add it and then process so they no longer need the keys before you close it down. That's one of the challenges in these proposals. And that also, especially if you're having the, RFC based lessons be worth API socket based IPA for SDP WAF. This becomes bits that was further limitation on this when it comes to how many miss you can transmit, etcetera, and and knowing when the date they So But, exceptional HTTP work functions, all of this postal resides on top of an STB stack. It's between the a per day protocol, and the main SDP Parts. And it relies on STB stack for deed application, etcetera, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "don't comment on saying it's not really replay protection, but, dealing with any duplication of packets, etcetera, replace they come into the stack and they, this does nothing to change the properties of the s, SDPs handling of our dealing with this There's 2 crypto passes. There's details over the user layout. Protocol user messages. And then it's S2B off over the STP packet shunk packets, chunks that are, signal to be protected by the auth chunk. So, let's go to b. In p, we have one detail as record for SDP packet. Oh, Simple leaking because it's done in transmission order. We are using details, record sizes that are an IPM to use size level. Is common to other detailers applications, the point here is saying that an off the shelf's detail stack is likely to work with to just function with these requirements. And then we also get the TLS replay protection preventing STTP stack to having to process replayed old packets. So it actually improves the STP stacks. Protect a protection of that stock and from attack. And there's only a single crypto operation path for the detailers, protection of each packet. And this does encrypts both the STP protocol as well as the data. Detail is record processing is integrated. Into the SFTP stack. Which means that the kernel SDP implementation require kind of split the TELUS implementation where you have the record processing integrated into the stack, and then you provide it keys, etcetera, and do the detail as handshick over the SDP stack. There's one limitation currently, which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "compared to IPS maximum MTU of 64k. We have an current record limit of, deters will be the maximum SDV payload MTU of 16,384 bytes. And if is proposal taken forward, which would be rise to 64, and there were with no impact on regular IP. Next See? When it comes to c, It fragments the ULP user message into multiple SCTP messages. And this has slightly stricter requirements when it comes to what you can do. So it requires in order reliable delivery on the streams. So if you have large message, you can't do partial liability in that way. But it also gives you benefit, basically, saying that you can get IData like into leaving between streams of of ULP user messages. It re authenticates the, the peers, we're using RC 9261 mechanism, And here, what we gave. Lauren is like, okay. Haven't found an open source implementation currently available for it. We know, However, that at least one of these, they're not particularly large. And, At least one is no more than around 300 lines of code. And just like, a, it relies on the SDB stack for handling and it duplicated the replay packets. And, also, in this case, it's to encrypt the passages like a, So it's details of it. The you could use the message, and it's the bill of India. Packet chunks. So Martin,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "Yeah. Me again. Are Are there any open source implementations of, like, the legacy DG TLS over SCTP, solution that you're replacing. That you know of. Yes. It's implemented in open SSL. Okay. So if I understand correctly, see. The IPR applies to DTLS over not for, I mean, the the IPR for AB and AB applied to QLS or SCTP, not SCTP. This would not affect SVP in the kernel. It would affect open SSL or whoever else happened to to implement, try to do this open source. So you could implement c No. Yeah. C is no IPR in conference, if I understand correctly. Yeah. But you can't implement a or B. B is something else because b is is a splitting Wow. So when it happens to be basically what we were trying to lay down how it's like, yes. It's possible to implement the channel part in the journal. Yes. Michael, etcetera, has expressed that it's, yeah, personal preference, not to do this because of of Yeah. No. I I I I get that, but I I but the the real impact would seem to be Well, okay. So there's the Let me back. So how many How many details over STB limitations do we know of? There's the open SSL 1. There's the air I'd want. I mean, not not of these new proposals of, like, the legacy thing. Yeah. I I so don't know if there's anyone else that has 1. Okay. So we think Eric sent an open open SSL."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "So Ericsson does not least define where Ericsson MPPR, a IPR. So the The effect is on open SSL, and and anyone else who should choose to venture into this space? Okay. Thanks. K. Let's go on. So, We're now coming up towards hosting a solution here, for way forward. I think the main choice really is between time to completion and potentially IPR free and the FIDIP P has stressed in the analysis back to the working group they want to have a solution quickly. Both as a free and run free as said that. Coating the relevant parts. Analysis and basically, the choice here is for time and completion as, between either a or b, and if you're going for IPR free, see would be the candidates. So So next So this table tries to summarize kind of the main points here, what's included in the different what's the IPR, what's time frames, etcetera. So and implementation aspects, So So I guess we can go to the Corey? Yeah. I just bought it check the people in the room that A breed with this table because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "This table is a great summary of kind of where the design team has reached. Does anybody have any comments on this table or the implications of the things in the table? So I'd rather agree with them. People think there may be some questions about whether the time or the IPR is Correct. Here. Are people happy? General question, just trying to get a sense of what people think a comment from me. Looking at now based based on the 4 solutions c, affect the It's there's this At the end of 2025 at TLS is very aspirational at the moment, considering the how it developed for this meeting. That's So but Yeah. Go ahead, Magnus, because oh, Martin. Yeah. Sorry. I didn't bother because nobody else is going to the mic. Has anyone contacted OpenSSL and gotten their feelings about this? No. I haven't. Okay. I a I don't have super strong opinion about this, but I do feel like we may I I I would feel really good about a or b. If we felt that there's no like, If if the IPR issue is purely theoretical, would feel a lot better about a and b, which is not to say I I say we can't do a and b without that, but be an interesting question to to answer. Oh, Go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Yes. I don't think we have, talk directly to open SSL. Right? So, But just I like, really theoretical. mean, it's not, That want to be IPR does impacts. I think that there has been a fair amount of discussion between Magnus and Michael to understand what exactly that means. My understanding is, like, this means, like, for open SSL or anybody else to implement it they need to have a license to make it Uh-uh. There's no other way around for a and b. But, for the open source part of the, the open source part, going to the cities stack. People can implement it, I think, from Michael and Marcello, that's like Red Hat, they're saying like, okay. We can't implement it, but we don't cannot really ship. A test client to test it. So we're not gonna do that. So that's basically that. Situation we have. Okay. I'm sorry. So so did you just say, like, you cannot actually We cannot actually deploy to the colonel. Because of this testing issue. That's, I think, that's what we try to discuss. So the main list is saying that depending on how you do the test clients, if I, I, I would say that there's way of doing the test client for doesn't infringe the IPR Okay. So that that's a matter of technical dispute at this point. Yeah. Yeah. Alright. So by by theoretical, I mean, and so, obviously, the license is real or the the IPR is real. But, I can imagine a number of answers from open SSL. Okay. So I'd be like, I I would I would not be surprised if a hypothesis was that no one knew was gonna implement this. So if the if the openness to sell people said, you know, We're not gonna have update this anyway, or, like, no. We already have an a happy relationship with with and we like stuff all the time and our lawyers, our friends, and, you know, No big deal. Like, that would be a great thing here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "Again, I don't wanna say, like, if those things aren't true, we couldn't we do A or B, but, I'm just trying to figure out what the if if if air if it turns out ARRIS is the only people that can implement this anyway and ship it, like, Let's mean, do it. So let's try to clarify this. I the expect what's expected to happen here is that IETF selects a solution Yep. Pretty creepy adopt it, which means that those implementing products with that interface. Would need to support this specification. Mhmm. And at that point, they would need to ensure that, okay, how do I get them, So are are your comp are your competitors using Open SSL? Is that is that What's going on? Okay. Got it. Thanks. Some of it assist. So k. Maybe go to the next slide where had some Oh, we have a queue. So John uh-uh Yeah. John Mattson, Ericsson. I think the time estimate is the most essential on this slide. Built both LSS from 3dpp from s a tree and from round tree, stress the time estimate. And This has already taken far too long. We we need to shift at least one solution Soon. Corey. So I'm going to ask 2 more questions just see if anyone in the room jumps up to the queue. And the first one is How important is having a solution that's not got IPR. To people,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Is that something that People feel strongly about having a solution which doesn't have eye r, We'll come to this in the next slide as well. And the second one is, do people agree with the timing requirement from 3gpp because they stated timing requirements. So being if there's something that says that the ATF should also be considering things on a slightly longer term. Then I think I'd like to hear that because we have one urgent need That's important input. If we have other people who think that they can wait longer to produce an ITS spec, then that might be a helpful input as well. Just Ask these questions at this stage. You can carry on with the next slide, but please try and think about these things as we carry on Yeah. Yep. Charles? Charles Echkel. Not so much my personal opinion because, a lot of this is a bit beyond me, but, within SA 3, you know, I I brought it up at the 3gpp meeting just to get a sense of the room there. And when we about timing, yeah, I got confirmation that you know, They see the sooner the better, and it's already too late lately. Like we needed yesterday. Type of thing. When asked about IPR, it was, just like we're not really wanting to talk about that. Like, you know, that's That's that's it's business as usual sort of. So I didn't get a strong sense that the IPR was a a concern or at least it wasn't a topic of discussion. Thank you. So it could go to the next slide where we have the some of the views from individuals in the same team, on, preferences, etcetera. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "Ericsson's preference list is most preferred. This solution is b, then a, and least preferred is c. Better motivation that C is expected to take too long. Nokia expressed preference for sea, And Slides. Then then of b over a, but the free BSD maintainer, just set it's c or not really any other preference. So And we would comment that's really all implement half of the And the similar was expressed by red hacks, Linux, and, upstream SSTB stack maintainer. And the TLS implementer also said c. So Martin? So, like, is there anyone actually gonna speak up for a as a preferred choice. It doesn't seem like that in a way. Okay. So I think we, yeah, it's Uh-uh. It's it's between b and It was a question to you, but but also the room. Okay. Doesn't seem like anyone is is jumping up in screaming for ice. Okay. Well, that makes it easier. Go ahead, Corey. Yeah. I just wanted to actually call that one out, Martin, and actually asking anyone No. Thanks that a is a sensible thing to have on the table. Are there things in a, which you want to keep on the table or can we remove a? So, Does anybody want to speak in the chat or in the room just saying that we wanna keep a on the table and say, why? See, no one getting up. So Michael. in Michael's the List. So If we have a choice between"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "b and c. What means, in See, no No prize. So, This will be in in a the STTP part is basically doing SDP all the stuff. For a c, this is different. For a, that would be the same. So for the SDP parts, for open source implementations A and C are very similar. Mean, they are identical. That's the only The only part, whether you will see support for be an open source at CTP Implementations In in in open source kernel implementations. That's a question. Which was For redhead I interpret that this table has no formally, I mean, I think with the defense of IPR statement, it could be implemented in previously. As long as it can be disabled, but As as Magna said, it's It it it looks a bit, I'm pretty system to implement something which has a single use case, and I can't test the the single use case. I can do other tests. I can do unit tests. I can do 1st test. Thing, whatever, but I I can't test exactly the one the use case, which this is intended for. As as I said, that's my personal preference, but The Linux maintainer, Shepherd. A comment there, Michael. I I hope that this will be clear when the IVR we're talking about is public that you will understand what you can and cannot do. So but, yeah, I, But I can't build the imp I can't build the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "You can't be in the source. You know? Implementation, which you can just put your upper layer on top of and and it it just works. As that part covers the rekeying, you could build an upland implementation that supports solution without rekeying, but Yeah. But the rekeying is the interesting part in, in, in, in combination with SDP because you have the off handling there. On the off key handling. So the the the interesting part from an STDP perspective. I mean, you you get the encrypt decrypt right or wrong, and you will detect that very, very fast. But the key management, is is what is interesting. I'm sorry. Clarifying question. Michael, thank you for that reply. I I mean, I I didn't get all of are you saying that a is potentially implementable the kernel portion is potentially implementable for a, but not for b. Is covered. The kernel portion is the kernel implement it Toability of the Colonel part for a and c is identical. Okay. For b, you could implement part the the SCTP part could be implemented. In a previous D implementation, I think, But the question is whether this would be done, we course, the only use case you have, you can test and you need to specify the API. You need to implement the API. You to make sure that the MPI is good enough, and it's actually working so it's it's about the testability And for this functionality, putting the DTLS crypto stuff in the car in in the STDP stack. This is the only use case, at least right now. So it's suboptimal that you can't test this by having the appropriate upper layer."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:05",
    "text": "So would you prefer a to b? I was just saying, I mean, I would prefer Would I prefer a to b? Maybe. Okay. This has got a lot of pleasure. Thanks. For for for for a 2. Between a and b, I would implement a the the kernel part of a because that's off. That's the same as C. Thanks. That's what I have. That that's where my problem is would be. I can implement it, but I can't test if it's really working in the use case. So that's that's why I would prefer a over b. As we're doing this, just to get another dimension, I started to pull and We're just gonna use this to help, other people comment if they wish. We're not actually pulling on the solutions. We're just getting cancel the room. But go ahead Magnus, if you don't have a queue in the room, I have one person at mic. the Hi. Nope. Go Head. ahead. Yeah. Hong from Huawei. Actually, I think this only solution B can do the, 11 crypto path. The solution a and c need to do 2 crypto pass. Right? Yep. Yeah. And I think the the so the option b, it's as the performance and kind of integrated TTRs and the SATP. Makes it more look like a quick and the cricket's good. So think we can go this direction. Yeah. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "I'm sorry. Magnus, on your slide, what is TLS implementer. On this Harnes Shofening. I I know who Hans is, but, like, Yes. It's his preference. But, Like, what teela what teela simplification are we talking about? Embed Okay. He's here. He talked about, and that TCP, a TLS, and and at the last meeting, he said he was focus on OpenSSL Yep. Because, I think his Siemens is more dealing with open SSL than, Okay. Thanks. John? Yeah, John Nelson, Ericsson. Going back to what Huawei said about, layers. 1 of the comments in the TLS working group today about the key update was that doing security on two layers, it's rather complex and likely to go wrong using a single layer is much simpler to implement the easier to analyze. I would I think that is a from a security point of view, that's big input to this selection solution b is is a single layer and much easier to analyze my I would say that that, RFC 6883 doing security on on several layers is is I think it's a lie very likely reason why why the issues was that takes did for pulse along Okay, Corey. Do you want to conclude on this, show our hands? Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "It helps people, we should record the show of hands. There were 8 people said to go ahead without proposal a One person said we shouldn't go ahead without proposal And eight people have no opinion in this particular poll. And just the one person who said no want to add anything else? Speak no. Okay. Right. Well, that We will take our input to our decision. Carry on. Magnance, Yes. But I think the only thing we basically have left is is So saying concluding the design team and going to, I think, selection discussion by forward discussion. Down. So, you know, So rather than Go to the next slide. Let's leave. Leave this or the previous slide. Do you wanna put the previous slide up for a second? Yep. Like, Martin Martin Yeah. That's good. Okay. I'm I would like to suggests that our design team has done a great deal of analysis And, I would first of all like to ask a poll question to check that we agree on the requirements that they're presented. Just the working great. Rook does the working group agree that the design team has captured the requirements for this analysis. Please vote yes or no."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:13",
    "text": "If you close it in, 30 seconds, Martin. Martin Duke again. Again, no hats. I didn't vote in a previous show of hands. So I was not the no. As I'm I'm a Regarding option a, I'm still struggling with this, and you could I'm very persuasive on all these points, but It seems quite problematic to have IPR impairments in the kernel? Much more so than you know, with this DTS over STTP thing, which is gonna be a small number of vendors. And, I if I if if you'd force me to vote in the past show of hands, I might have voted no for that reason. So I guess I'll stand in for the person who voted no. That sense. K. I mean, I I think it comes down to it's what what at least, from my perspective, trying to show is that, yes, it is implementable But, yeah, it might not be desirable from some of these working daily, etcetera. But I think it's possible to get be implemented in the kernel, even in a open source implementation. That's yeah. I mean, chairs stop me if I'm going too much in the weeds here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "But, like, is this is this an issue with, like, an automated test that we can't ship because or, like, is it not is it really not possible to even test it for initial correctness. You can test it. It's it's if you would actually publish your testing code publicly, you might infringe IPR if you do certain testing. So So, Michael, is that something that, like, you do you, like, ship BSD testing code or publish it somewhere where this would be an issue or is this solely, like, your discomfort in getting it going in the working in the first place? So I can't speak for the free busy project. But The testing code I use is code I publish. So that's where I'm a bit hesitant hesitant to to say, I would implement this. I mean, I could I mean, you can use API tests and packet will test and and this kind of done. That's no problem. But what's What, What what's bothers me is that I contest the implementation with An upper layer which is The only use case. If I if I would have a 1000 use cases or 10 or whatever, so I can't test everything. Would be happy to use 1 and and and see what happens, but this is Right now, this is a single use case because basically you have a combined implement patient, Part of it isn't in the it's the STDP stake part of it on top. And if you have a username stack, That is simpler because you can put it below the, the, the user, the, the asset if stick. So, That's that's my point. I think my cello was also going in that direction, but, I wouldn't I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "I don't remember he said that explicitly. Marcelo is the one of the Linux maintain as far as city. Working for WhiteHat. Okay. I'll you have the Florida Subir wherever you are. Before we take Sophia, I'll just report back that sixteen people said They agree with the requirements from the design team and no people said against it. So on this basis, the working group is going to set those requirements as the basis for doing the work. I'm going to start another poll suggesting and that the design team might finish but I'd love to hear Sabier in the process while we're carrying on discussing this. So, Please take the call. Please also get the questions. Go ahead, Sabia. Go ahead, Sabia. Subiar, are you in the room? You're seeing the local tool. Okay. I'm gonna remove you from the queue. Feel free to reach out. Teriot, through from Nokia. For option c, the only contention seems to be regard to the new draft in the TLS working group, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "only contention there was with regard to whether this needs to be done in TL stack or in the application layer, Once that is resolved, it's pretty much a very small change where we just have to exchange couple of messages for the new key exchange And if, we we have the implementations available online kernel of free BSD can test the entire solution. So a very minimalistic change to TLS. And if it's done in the application, it's just one message in the tailor stack, which, anyway, two layers of, security communication is already happening because in TLS 1.3, we have post handshake, certificate authentication happening in the application layer already and They have already done that in the past. So what I see is a mixed reaction where there's at least in the list of several people who are proposing that. We have done that in the past worked for us. Today in the working group session, there's quite a bit of comments saying that we should move back to the dealer stack and do the a new ephemeral key exchange in the TLS tag exchange itself. Yep. John, I I think it's the right decision to move it back to the TLS layer for several reasons. I think, my understanding is that that will impact the key TLS key schedule. Might Expectation is that the TLS working group will require formal analysis of that. My I my expectation would be that that at the year, so I would My personal opinion, it would be that this will take longer than 25, but my guess is it's long good as anybody else. I definitely think it will require formal verification before TLS publishes this Yeah. I mean, it will require some formal analysis enhancing the existing ones, but the new keys will be derived, after the existing keys are derived. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "and they will be using the same carrier derivation functions. So it's it's gonna be the same if you if you model, ECDH key exchange. So I don't see a major change in the way formal analysis needs to be done. But, I I think I think have to wait for the document to get adapted and then the discussion to happen in the working group. How the progress of the document can be accelerated. Okay. On our call it appears that, Only one person said that there are additional topics for the design team I suggest that person contacts the chairs We are terminating that shore of hands. We conclude that the design team has done good work. Thank you for everybody who's being a part of that. We help decisions by the working group. So we expect to close that design team. Okay. I wonder, Magnus, if it's worth asking if people could be content. With If people would be content with having More than one solution. Yep. You could ask that. Yep. I think it's a useful question at this stage. We've heard pros and cons with very different timescales. So I'm going to set a poll up to ask is the, An appetite to work. On more than one solution."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "So John? Yeah. I think it makes might make some reason to discuss which to solution. I think solution. B is quite different from solution, a, and solution. Be AMD or A and C, you mean? A and C or DTLS over STTP, with some change it. B is CTLS. In SCTPs. I think but but now I think the the assumption here is that a is scrapped, and the question here is really should be is there an appetite to move forward with BNC. Having That makes it maybe more sense than a general question. Okay. Go ahead. Take this question in the context of progressing with The two design structures we've had of be, the c Please comment now if you wish to and then I'll ask my there are Other things you would like to bring up as we close the design team And Then we will take the discussion to the list. So now is the time to join the queue if you'd like to contribute to this discussion, and I also will ask Magnus if there's anything else was used to ask or clarifying So This is, with no hat. I think I think the question about this, appetite for 2 solutions. I think what I see we have very hard time getting reviews when it comes to SCTP and redacted war. So I'll do I'll be rather cautious saying, like, who he who actually go for 2 solutions without really further analyzing or asking the question, like, whether We we'll we can deliver on more than one solution or not."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "So that's something that I'm I'm a bit worried about. That's that's my opinion. So my option so I'll choose for, like, no opinion here. I Martin Duke, I second his concerns about bandwidth in the group for that, but also, like, Our whole purpose here is to do inoperable specs, and I think it's just like the, like, the Eric's and boxes are doing this thing and, like, everybody else is doing this other thing, then we've we've kinda failed. Maybe I maybe maybe that's a 2 to be you, and there's some sort of way to fudge that, but my initial reaction is that the opposite of a standard So, I mean, it's We're doing this to deliver a solution to 3 d p p for adoption about 3 d p p. So it would be up to the vendors of 3dppproducts to implement what they adopt. So Right. But it but the The hypothesis here is that so I have to, like, tie together this whole thread of, like, weird questions I've been asking. So clearly, Ericsson is strongly prefer to do, a. And, The hypothesis that open a sizzle will not do a And so open SSL, if we have this other thing we do see and everyone else is built on open SSL. So you would have, like, one important market player who does a, and then everyone else is doing See, which does not seem like a bunch of a standard. In my view. I think that's a miss or maybe miss on the or misrepresentation of the, like, scenario to tap them, but, yeah. Okay. I mean, you know, infinitely more about this market space than you. So what is what would happen if we had 2 standards? 3 people would pick 1. Okay. Yep. And that's the only for this. So, essentially, we have a dead RFC one that's abandoned if they Okay. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:07",
    "text": "Okay. I'm gonna close the poll and 30 seconds. So If you want to express an opinion in the poll, please do, go ahead in the room. I think we should focus our energy and pick 1 of the rather than working onto that will at least focus the energy and then we could use hackathon to do some interrupt as well. Right? And, and and the kernel implementation can be just one. So I don't think we have that many number of resources to work and develop and and interrupt 2 solutions at least. Yep. Answering to Martin that said it would be only Eric, I think here in the room, we had support also from Huawei is saying that they supported B and the LS from from 3 d p p, which is the only answer we have from 3 d p p is that the support, solution d I cannot talk for GDP, you know, I cannot talk for GBP. That's the only thing we have. And also the time aspect. I think it's essential that we deliver something to 3 d p p and the time frames they have Requested. Jazz. I just want to make one thing note to the working group is, like, when John said 3gpp, going for b, at that time, typically, because you'll have a look on So, basically, I think we should not really take that coming by analyzes, very seriously without asking them again between BNC, I would like to point out that deciding to move forward with 2 documents at this point doesn't mean that we are committing to publishing 2 RFCs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "We could just postpone the decision to a later IATF meeting. When we hopefully have more information to make, an informed decision. Maybe because, The TLS Working Group has moved forward. Or we have heard more from 3gpp, and they have considered up can see and what how that impacts, their requirements. Yeah. Answering to AD. I think as long as we haven't heard anything from 3 ETP, I think what we have heard is what we should assume that 3 dPP thinks. Yeah. And also, like, there is nothing indicating that 3 d p p should have changed the the reason on the timeline to the controversials Edgar had been in to GTP and discussing, and the timeline is still It's very essential to ship something. Now it should have been shipped Yesterday. So, like, Yeah. Yeah. So, I I would like to associate myself with the Martin's comments. About, Being able to defer the decision, but what I like. One thing I like what you said, you laid out some actual criteria on, like, things we're gonna figure out rather than just waiting for like, this magic thing that makes it all clear, because I don't think we're ever gonna get that Like, whether we adopt it. I mean, so clearly, we can put we can continue to work on both drafts. Like, we have proponents for both of them. We continue to work on them. I would hope that we could develop some criteria you mentioned TLS I mean, I mean, this is probably just on, on a list that on the mic, but if, like, somebody in this space could maybe Come come up with a list of questions we would, like, answered. I I would personally like to nominate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "Open SSL and consumers open SSL somehow being involved in this discussion. Because that seems to be most of the rest of the market space. You mentioned TL is working group. That's obviously key input. Through GPP I don't know if we're gonna get an answer out of 2 g p p in in some sort of fixed amount of time, but Yeah. A question there, Martin. You're saying involving open SSL doesn't that isn't their answer fairly clear? Aren't they very precluded against an IVRium covered Louison? I don't know. If willing to grant that they will just absolutely not do option a. I I I think Yeah. b. Sorry. We got rid of a. I'm I Okay. I mean, if if you're confident in that, if they're just not gonna do B, then I think that essentially means that The only way that there could be to products that use this would be for someone to choose to implement it, from scratch. With the licensing. Right. Because Opus is all will no longer be a substrate for it. You need to find someone to implement it, and that could be an open source that your license, but, yeah, it's not one of the, maybe, the classic. Okay. Thank you. I think it's a good idea to involve open this facility. To see if they would, implement this. The other comment was If if let's, I'm not sure how 3gpps gonna evaluate the documents that are produced here. Right? I mean, are we gonna give some analysis for them to help understand the pros and cons of each of this and they pick it and it's it's surprising to me that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "it's it's the document is produced here and we cannot prioritize, and we are letting some other SGO prioritize and STP TLS and all the protocols are being developed in, in, in the idea of itself. So I I think there should be some prioritization done here and rather than just relying on 3 GB who to make a decision because I ask for, the analysis for option b on what technical, security was turned on option. We I didn't get any document from 3 g p p s a 3 either. So I think I think, if they have not done it so far, how do you think they would do something differently than us to technically evaluate that one, technique is superior than the other one. I mean, and I'm tired of it. If you think 3 d p p is the only actual consumer of this. We could just say, yeah, you will have to fix it yourself. We're not gonna do anything. That is an alternative. So, that act that last comment just kind of made me sort of realize. So we essentially have one customer of this, which is through GPP. 3 gb p has a much broader has all these stakeholders that we're talking about and consumers of this. So this maybe is a good question to them. Like, do you want it now? Or do you want one that is going to that is more likely to have a variety of suppliers, right, because that's that's the real question. And there are people who are gonna buy this equipment that that will get it faster, or they will get it, frankly, more expensively, just because the way economics works. Right? And and and and and, like, don't think we have We can't make that value judgment here, I don't think. So maybe we should just ask our customer, which is the STO. What they want. And, part of this kind of, I mean, going through the technical implications of of option c and and another part of that trade space is the technical trade offs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "And, you know, you've made those cases. I feel fairly comfortable that be as probably technically superior to see in, like, a n a in, like, an IPR neutral world. But the economic considerations I think our the confidence of 3 g p p, not us. Okay. Putting your chair hot on. We need 2. Tidy this up quickly, I don't want to cut the cube but I would love, to, try and be quick here and keep some working group time for other cushions. So, Go ahead to I I'm I'm not and John. sure how, we have concluded that option be assuming patients are not there, option we is technically superior than how see. I don't think I have seen any such analysis so far. So I would be really interested to see up assuming there is no IPR in the world, right, how option a versus All the 3 options are meeting all the requirements that we have specified. Right? There are advantages in all the options. There are disadvantage just there's no clear winner at least. Right? But, to say that one option, at least among option BNC saying that one is a clear winner or the other, assuming IPRs are not there. I'm not I don't agree with that. That was Martin Duke's view. That's his personal view. I share, that view of of being superior, we can discuss that maybe later, etcetera, or if you want to have it now, but, yeah, we should have that discussion to figure out which one is superior in case want to pick that, but I don't think that analysis was done. Okay. To clarify, I said that I as a very weekly help view, I I I claimed no expertise and, But so Yes. We should have the discussion, and, I'm very persuadable on that point to be clear. John? Sure. Yeah. I would say the option b is simpler it uses"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:04",
    "text": "CTLS, like, for everything, and that's almost everything, and that's it. I find it a bit weird that there is so much API discussion here. Charles Ecker, which is our 3 g p p coordinator, you said that 3 g p p doesn't really care about IPR. There was no comment about IPR. And, has concluded that our only customer is 3 d p So p. and Okay. Well, we we could we could conclude the SCTP only for use by 3gpp But I to if that's the discussion we want to have. So there is a wider scope than our main customer for this. And the working group has to think about Whether that is important. That might be the only reason that the chairs would consider progressing more than one specific location here because we have an IETF perspective of producing an open standard and a need to support 3 GBP and produce a standard that meets their goals. I think we haven't quite determined the outcome from today. I think we have made significant progress have also focus a little bit more on the Things we need to decide We will not be adopting anything at this meeting. We will expect this to progress now more quickly because we have started this discussion, please continue it on the list. If we do need an intern, we can organize an interest to keep the momentum going. But we will need to decide which of these documents we are going to progress to wards an RFC Thank you everyone for inputs. We have lot of inputs here, and please continue to work on this because whichever way we go, everyone has agreed it's urgent, to work on this topic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "Mine's pointless. Okay, taking my working group chair part of I will give a very quick update of careful resume to allow time for other speakers. So next slide there's been a number of rewrite, and revisions for this draft in the last period. The reason for presenting this slide is mainly to show that the spec How's no? Landed in some respect. So, we are looking at a number of implementations, and we are looking for people to read the spec, to implement it, to talk about it, And, specifically, we've added Q log support with help from Anna Robin and Lucas And I think that is a very significant step forward because it helps with analysis as well as checking the correctness of the call. Next side, The q loke spec looks like this. I realized that q log is a thing that's evolving as we speak. One of the interesting things perhaps is that this is Probably the first qlove definition outside of the quick working group main specs. So, but things might change Again, The good news is that we have Some people developing tools against this and we can have truly know that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:04",
    "text": "if you approach people, we'll actually, supply that tooling to help you do the analysis. That's probably going to be updated in the next rev. So next slide, We have a number of pending edits for the queue log to align the definitions with the spec itself Hopefully, the Adidas, we'll get together and publish that in the next week or 2. People have also started some unit tests. So, and Those unit tests have just given 1 or 2 corner cases. One is on entering recovery. It's possible that the, sea wind goes to a very small value with seemed like it was not a desirable outcome. And an extra if statement was added a conditional which I think is a good thing. It helps to ensure that the algorithm converges towards a sensible sea wind, when your application is very thirsty, And I guess if you haven't read the draft for a little while, and it's interesting to look at appendix, say where we now have a table which shows the transitions between the different states and I think that's probably, the most easily read part of the draft So do have a look at appendix a Next slide. And where as part of the people who are trying to implement it, completing some unit tests. We have detailed tests and also summary tests. And we're working our way through those where nearly through. We will update the queue log and publish very soon. Thanks for all people who reported that. And we're also going to do some analysis with high BDP"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "pots to see how this. Actually gives real benefits. So we'll have performance data for the next IETF. We'd love feedback. There are implementations based on a fork of quiche, with implementations and people quick. We're interested in anybody else who's willing to play try or even just interrupt the clients with a working sender implementation. And we expect have very significant progress for the next meeting and hopefully have a working group last call. Any questions? Or comments. Hello, Lucas Pardu here. I see Martin Simon in the probably gonna make the same point I was gonna make, but let's see. Regarding specifically the queue log stuff, We have been working in the last, like, week course. Well, Yes. Yes. Yes. Last couple of days even, on finally getting around transferring the issue about extensibility, and clearly creating a way for documents such as this to than the q log call schemers. Like like he was suggesting, this is one of the concrete examples, but but but is being done, which is great. There's a pull request in flight. We'll be talking about that stuff in quick session tomorrow and ultimately what we'll have is, like, a template that, that, the spec can then just use effectively just defining a URI, of your schema that extends Q logs. There's probably just a since this is a a a document. I can't remember if this is standard track or not, but long as it's an RFC, we can register it in the new proposed name space that we wanna do. So, once we've done our stuff and got that in order, I'm happy to help update. This one, but we probably wanna make sure that, this document's working group bus call. Does the right thing that we want for q log before it's done and dusted. If that makes sense."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "So when do you think that timing will be We we we have a couple of open questions that we need some help from, people like Magna to answer specifically because we're copying how RTP did some of this. And we hope to get that done ideally by the end of the week or, you know, next week. So very, very soon, probably well ahead of your schedule, but but I just wanted to flag that. It might take us a little bit longer. But but but we'll help you. Thank you. Helpful anyone is always appreciated. That's great. Martin, very, very excited to see, to see Q log used here. Thanks for that. One clarification question when you said you implemented it in quiche. Is that cloudSlackish or Google keys? It's a foot of Lucas' repository, I think. We can send you details. Lucas do you want to comment? That would be cloudflies, Kish, So Yep. Okay. We'll we'll use the list to talk about this. I'd rather give way to let other people have, working group times and talk more about this. But, really, I am keen to, as all the other editors are to talk more about this and try and get this spec finished. Thank you, Martin. So putting my chair hat on, we have a couple of presentations we're going to use spending time to talk about these And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "One significant thing that the chairs have pushed back on both sets of slides and their authors is to try and think about the requirements and the implications of doing the methods which are being talked about, and At the end of the session, and and if time permits actually in the meeting room. Otherwise, on the list, we'd like to think about whether we can capture the requirements across the board about how to signal 2. The network, the intention of the application, whether this is a thing that the IETF has guards for or recommends. So, go ahead, John. You're the first to talk. Thank you. So this is the a draft that we've presented before, but as Kari just mentioned, it was with the focus on solutions. And here, we are talking about the requirements. Close in. Sorry. Is this a bit better? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So this is a media heading handling considerations for wireless network. I can go to the next page, please. Okay. So, We've pulled out requirements for the signaling into these 4 categories. Metadata for the media frames itself. What what are the requirements for the media frames. Similarly for if classifying it into media streams. And then independent of, streams of frames, there are a set of requirements that relate to helping the traffic, shaping in the network. And then finally, we talk about the channel or the transport requirements for it. Just as, for context, I just wanted to say that there are, a lot of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:03",
    "text": "aspects around the control signaling and so on. Which we're not covering in here because, it's already there. And, you know, we wanted to focus on requirements that we wanted help with on, you know, communicating these metadata. So that's the focus of it. But at the very last, we have non requirements and a slide there that I've added to To just convey a few common questions that have been coming up. So let's just go with all of the requirements. If we go to the next page, please. So just as an overview, I think people are mostly familiar with this because it has presented before. The problem is that, in sub RTT time, There are significant variations and that causes the traffic shaper or scheduler in the wireless network to drop packets randomly or at the tail. Which results in unexpected behavior and, but not a pleasant outcome. So, what 3 g 3gpp has worked on some solutions or trying to address some of these problems and ask for solutions. But here we're looking at what the application server can provide to a wireless, router to help with this. And now considering that there are frames that we want to deal with and not packets. The requirements here are basically saying need to identify the media frames. That's one of the requirements. So that we can treat the packets of a media frame in the same manner. And then the related requirements are the two on relative priority of the media frames. So one frame is more less important than the other. And that can be used to determine, a drop, priority."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "When congestion is high, And the last one is tolerance to delay if a packet can to avoid more delay or less delay. That can help the shaper or cellular to optimize the overall outcome. So that's the one for on a per frame, set of requirements. On the next page I think Magnus has a question? Or Yeah. On the previous slide, you have that saying that the You get random drops. I mean, isn't the most likely cause of packet loss towards them is there's some that link could cause that would fail recover repair, etcetera, but the is in this case and what you can actually use any information, etcetera, to deal with is you will not be able to live it within a certain time scale. The info would have to drop things. Isn't that what you're actually after? Yes. It's it's Yeah. I think, the whole scheduling thing is pretty complex, and it's Yeah. It's an oversimplification to say random. I guess it were depending on depending on the schedule and the time frame and Latency. Yes. I agree with that. If you go back once a night, please. Yeah. So in this case, unlike, separating frames of a particular flow what where writing requirements for is to identify a set of media streams that may be transported in a single flow a channel. So that could be like a WebRTC case where you have audio or video and so on. You know? So it's the same set of requirements. We need to identify the media streams in this case and not the the frames."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "But then once you identify the streams, it's the same question. The relative rye priority of each of those streams and, is one stream more or less willing to tolerate dealing. On the wire. So it's very similar to that. The interesting map, I'll just go on to the next frame. So this is related not to, particular frame or a stream, there are a few criteria, burst size, jitter and packet loss. Which we're talking outside of a single stream or frame. It depends on how the servers or what kind of media arrives. And how the server sends it. That can cause wearing, amount of, a burst and burst intervals. And, I've it would be very useful for a registrariller to have the burst interval and and particularly the birth size. Ahead of time or so that it can It can act to reserve resources. More appropriately. So that's the burst size. We haven't specified burst interval, but it you know, we can talk about it if we need to have it. And then we've also ask for a couple of other things in the requirements that is jitter and the delay. I mean, the, detection of lost packets. The reason we wanna know about lost packets is to identify the beginning and the ends of the off of freight. And, the jitter is useful also for scheduling if if something is coming very late, then in, in relative terms, there can be some adjustment on on in terms of shaping and forwarding. Is there a question, or can I go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:09",
    "text": "John, the requirement around server telling the birth size to the network how do you think that'll play out for Live video where mean, as as video is being generated, It is being, delivered? So oftentimes you don't know what kind of complexity of the video is going to be ingested on the signed. Okay. So I was assuming that the server I mean, this is precisely the case where you want to because if it's very periodic and predictable, then we can convey that. But it's specifically for in this discussion. Let me we should have this discussion off line to see if that is provideable or not. And if it is, it would be a very useful parameter to have because the scheduler can adjust or reallocate resources, you know, potentially. But if it cannot be provided, then, yeah, we should note that to the Thanks. Thanks for that. If we can go to the next place, place, place, place, place, place, Okay. So the next two slides are about, privacy considerations and then, you know, scale and things like that, performance and scale. So in terms of privacy considerations, we I mean, the figure is trying to show that the metadata goes in a separate channel than the the media itself, So the media itself is not affected in any way. It is fully encrypted. And no one in the network has any, you know, does not say anything about it. So what we're talking about is what privacy does the metadata need to come? Be to handle. And, one of the broad considerations that we've put in is that it should reveal no further information about a user or the content."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "But I think we perhaps need to enhance this a bit more to say all the privacy considerations from 6973, for example? And that's something we may look at And, But I just wanted to say that many of these fields are more like an enhanced DSCP. And, we need to do a full security analysis to see how much, can be sent I don't believe it's just about encrypting the channel. It's also about what will be revealed to the wireless router. Or anybody on path. So we we have to work on it. There's a bit and, I would appreciate any help on that So going to the next one about scale, And, continue to have to hand handover and so on. I the point we wanted to make is that We've since this mechanism, I mean, this is like yours, and it sent per packet we need to consider how these are configured we should not have a configuration for each flow and it should also be able to have a minimal amount of state information. So that the router can handle all of these things effectively, And also after handover, it should not take a certain amount of time to reconfigure all of this information. So I think, we've put it as induced latency in after a handover and so on. So these are the other set of requirements that we have, And that those are the set of requirements on the next slide. If they can drill there. Yeah. I, I think, what we have is under non requirements, but these are some assumptions we've made. I've seen that there's a lot of discussion and a few questions on the list too. That have asked the question more or less, is the end user aware of these things?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "And, or can the server modulate, what is being sent? And I just wanted to clarify that you know, these are table stakes of baseline assumptions that we made that you know, it is not that the the server sends random stuff to optimize. There are agreements. If you look at two scenarios that we have. In scenario a, it's more like a 3 g p p network. Where, a connectivity session between the 3gppclient and the wireless router, the UPS is made. Is an explicit agreement to provide a certain set of conditions and services. And similarly, there is a provider agreement between the server and the wireless. So it's it's it's the it's a transitive, set of these that, allows, you know, these, metadata to be sent So it's not some random stuff that's sent on the network. And even in the case where there is no such, you know, if you have an open network, you like a Wi Fi network. There are maybe provider agreements between the server and the wireless. And and application signaling can confirm whether the client is willing to have, these kinds of metadata disclosed So there is an end to end mechanism and the clients preferences are definitely considered in these cases. Just that the focus of these requirements are not these over the top and control aspects would rather the how do we get these, metadata to the traffic shaper. That's a focus, but, and we're assuming that all of these other things can be easily solved or have already been solved. And similarly about the server, I just wanted to say that the the server can adjust the rate or not provide things. I mean, it has a lot of feedback for example, in good conditions, it may just not provide any information or provide everything is equally important."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "But when it notices that there is congestion or drops or whatever, it can change the profile. So it's completely under the control of the application of the client, And, so it's it's it's relatively immune to, misusing that particular case, at least. So just to answer a few questions on that, And I think that's about it in the last page where asking. I mean, we've been discussing this problem. I think we have a stable set of requirements And, we'd like to see if the group can help us improve it. And also if we can adopt and work on it and see how we can progress on this. Thank you. Zah ahead. Debit, please? So, John, I mean, just for my information, how much of this has been discussed with media media folks, like, in Eviticoremops, how much they have looked into these things because some of the questions about, like, sharing bus information, figuring out, Packers belongs to the same frame is very critical, a very because the whole requirement will depend on those kind of things. Right. So This is, something we'd like to get help on So we haven't discussed it in detail with at all, as you can see from the and also about birth size, for example, where we have gotten feedback. I mean, it's not that we don't have any feedback. There have been discussions between know, essay 4 and essay 2. So essay 4 discusses, media from the 3gpp point of view. So there've been lots of liaisons back and forth about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "delays, birth sizes, what can be provided. I think they're thinking about extensions to RTP, for example. On on our ways. That's fine. That's fine. But we can just rely on those kind of analysis. I think we We need to get feedback here in idea from we need to different kind of media experts, personally, your working group, maybe you can you can have presentations in mops and and also, like, Eviticore, Yeah. I To get some feedback because this is really important that we get this I things. Know, in a shape, like, revealed by express. So that is actually doable. And useful, and useful Right? Absolutely. I think there are different stakeholders, and we do we Complete. Thank you. We we're looking for feedback. We we have one more presentation on a related topic. So we need to close the queue And if you ask questions now. You're going to delay the process, so please be very quick your questions. Thanks, Bob. Okay. Do you hear me? Just this, Go ahead. Yeah. Great. Another question actually, going back to Slide 3 here. I like getting pressured to hear that you're talking about, cope with, Fast fading and the scheduling, in intolerable some of that stuff in order to keep the queue very lower. And I want to clarify, for instance, on the road, for instance, we've done for us is that we have, pushed, Beatrice officers, a little low to, cope with this Fast fading is often enough in order to avoid getting, large queues that you need to drop. Rope, drop, But, yeah, I believe it's a tall order to try to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "cope with, with this one meter second variation in throughput. In this case, I'm Drop pack is based on that, but I'm not sure about this impression. Intention. Is it to drop packets where you can't meet schedule it in the next millisecond or I Just a very quick answer to that. I think the idea is to not drop packets, really. You know, this is to give information that will allow the scheduler to use this information is the best way to delay, reorder, whatever it is. If, the drop packets is like, There was thing that can happen, but Hello? I'm sorry. If it if it has to, then it should drop I mean, all the packets, I mean, if it's 50 packets of that same frame of low priority, then you should drop that to it. And not just drop 2 or 3. That's the I guess you order to have to call out your service for a motel that you can use you can direct those, really sensitive, flows into 1, that's Pacific, the RB, Data radio better. Well, that's per person. Right. how this fit into the over what I'm not sure how to already exist in the, through your paper specifications on 2. But maybe you can come come back to us later. To I think we can talk offline, but I did not wanna bring the DRB side of things. I think they do a lot of optional things there. But this is not just about 3gppp p. I think it's also the Wi Fi on I've heard even the cable networks can experience similar behavior with traffic shaping. So we'd like to see a a minimum set of, variables that, I mean, ah, sorry, metadata that is sent that is useful to all of these accesses. Spencer, and please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "keep your question very short. Actually, I'm answering a question from so I had about, where else this has been being talked about so I'm one of the co authors of the RTP over of quick specification and ABT Corps and also co author with John it's it's also worth, mentioning that people like mock and and things like that. Are shooting at a a longer time frame for feedback. Than than what, this draft is talking about. You know, if you've got, if you've got time to do, RTT you know, for for Indian RTT feedback that's great. This is trying to shoot for things where you don't have time to do that. This is actually coming out of, you know, if you look at the 3 gg3gppdiscussions, They're mostly talking about, RTP rather than anything that you'd be doing with Live media as is is discussed in the IETF. Thanks. Thank you. Kenji, here. seems to say, yeah, Just, try to, you know, I have been working with, the same thing with, junkie, and know all the background of this from ITS side and also from 3 gpp side. Looking at this draft that seems it's trying to, to generalize for the media transform. Now it's like RTP quick, a media over quick. All kinda things. So a suspension side, this is important to work. So really hope to get some of the best track for this one to be adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. I think we will and take next presentation. If we can, you're going to have 4 minutes. So Reveton, a significant part of your time already."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "Please. Use that as best you can. Yeah. So, yeah, I I will try to to do it quick. So this is, a presentation of the, use case draft that represent, that is capturing, I would say, some representative cases in which we need some collaboration between the host and the Nissanikes, So is it just to to provide a simplistic? I would say, scenario in which, we are, I would say, referring to is, basically, for example, there in in various network. There's multiple best in the in the network. And, basically, this is at the access part. So this can be your, your a router. It can be your router. And for example, in the, server networks, this can be, the the run part when there is a dynamic, dynamic conditions there, which may lead to, I say, overloaded all those resources, and then this will impact the, the overall available resources for your connection. So this limitation back the way the, we'd say the, the service is is delivered to us to the client. So because of this limitation, there's some, as we can show in the next slide, please. The the the the client or the host itself, and they're the constraint versus versus it may want to, to, to instruct the network to say that I would like that can there are some differentiated behavior of my main cabin package but the, the problem is that the network cannot honor all they would say, if everyone is asking to prioritize his own package, this can kind of scale and we cannot just inspect all the packet to to do that. And in the other side, the network cannot partner with every every server in the world because it it it is not scalable at all. And the other constraint we have there is that if you want something can be collaborative between the the host and the network. It should be deployable. And for that, there's a lot of trade offs to be taken into account. For during the specification itself, for example,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:03",
    "text": "having the trade up with between the cost and the benefit of a given solution the impact on the operation, we can just say that this will be just a simple bid that we can convey to to the host. There are a lot of hiding complexity, in in the architecture, and also the, the benefit we benefit we we have, by enabling this kind of signaling, need to have also distortion on the nominal nominal mode. Next slide, please. So this is just, I would say, the, in an overall sketch on the, one way to collaborative signal between the host and the network itself is that the the the receiver itself, you can just pick few flows packaging the flow to say that's, yeah, this is the this the flows that you can send submit with with these flows so that the network can be prepared to, to handle them. And then at the network side, when there is conditions, for example, I'm overloaded or under pressure, then the, the network can deploy your test some of the flows based on the metadata, which is provided by the host itself. So this is not this is done only when there is a reactive policy event that means I am in, in a pressure, and I I don't have service resources to to to handle all the flows. And all of those condition should be, handled. Why taking it to on the operational considerations of of of the signal. Next slide, please. So this is just the example of this signal, which will happen if we happen the the elements that are, I would say, that that that will, represent the button next slide, please. Yeah, this is just example of the, differentiated So this can be happening at the network side just to, to implement what you call the the the package card preference. Or at the host, the host, it can that the transmission the the metadata, which is provided by by the the the network. Or it can make ready connection to another another path if if there is, the the one we signal is received from the network. It's like this. Yeah, so this is just to see that we don't need to reveal the application identity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "server identity. We don't need to, to disclose why I'm sending the meter data. I don't need to inspect the packet then tapes, No decryption at all. Next slide piece, So this is just to provide an example of, the hiding operation and concentration behind some simple bits that we can convey this thing as I said. For example, if, some of the use cases we have, suggest that we can send, for example, the, the maximum bit bit rate in a in a flow, but there's a lot of city there. The networks did not, have any, I would say, per application or per flow. So what should I send there? The, the limits are not per host, yeah, our per subscriber. I don't know the number of the hosts are bound to a given host. So again, how should I compute that? Descend node it's servicing multiple customers and all these customers may have different service service offerings. So the there is no, system wide configuration that convey in this kind of of signals. So there there's a lot of, I would say, consideration that's gonna be taking into account there. Next slide is yeah, we can just move to No. I think we need to move to that slide. Yep. And maybe I could ask this slide. Thanks. Thanks, Ned, for doing, like, a a million miles an hour presentation. It was useful just to see your slide deck. From the chair's point of view, we're we've seen a number of short presentations of this over many ITFs And I think I really do like the idea of understanding the requirements understanding the, what the scope should be if the IT does proceed in one of these ways. So there's not times for you to take questions this time, unfortunately. And we can discuss this on list. I wonder you and John might be encouraged perhaps to, produce a common document that talks about 2 very different use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:03",
    "text": "but actually drills into that interaction between the network and host and the whole to network You can come right now or on the list but I'm If you're interested in producing one common document, I think that is something that we could actually put earlier in the agenda and give you, time to discuss that next meeting. Got it. Could I oh, can I quickly comment? Go ahead. Yeah. I think we I mean, Matt and I talked before and, these use cases are complimentary because Here in in this draft, they're talking about, host to network. And we are talking on the other side from the application to the network. And there was, you know, the flows over control flows can determine which as which we can definitely create use case that is common. I mean, so I'm I'd be very happy to work on that. The requirements may be different because, sometimes because there's uni and team and I kind of network, you know, so We can definitely do that here. They're complimentary. Oh, just be clear. John. I'm not asking for one set of requirements or even one use case. I'm asking for one document that talks about the issues of trust are the issues of signaling a walk sorts of metadata might be involved, and there might be more than one of those that are needed the different use cases. Yeah. I think we can work on Yeah. Yeah. Use cases. Yes. Okay. Thanks. That that's great. We're gonna close the line where we're already out of meeting time and Thank you for These two presentations thank you for being at Brisbane at the TSBWG meeting. Martin, do you have any final color? CEO all in Vancouver."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:03",
    "text": "I had you had I like that comment. See you all So, have a comment for Martin. Thanks for doing the service, service, and that was super Okay."
  }
]
