[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:43",
    "text": "so this is a best working group in ITF wanna wanna with two new co-chairs so thank you to welcome us so I\u0027m Stephan and met you with my new culture so that start will be not where that normally already everybody you know it but please read it if you don\u0027t blue sheets are circulating so please take care that we get back to us at the end of the meeting we would like to have a minute taker is possible to help us we have many many session to manage today and we would like to be able to interact so it would be really great to have someone who take some notes around here now Jon Secada would you like to help us taking some notes just just remember if the chairs are taking the notes they won\u0027t be very good and we might have to make up what happened thanks Aaron hey John okay easy here is our agenda so we will try to do quite long working group status to catch up all the work that is currently done in Bess we would like to do some cleaning so we will spend some times on the document status then Andrew should present a kind of coordination or regarding via TCP md5 option for LDP which is planned to be deprecated then we will have some MVP and draft and a lot of session about evpn talking about yank model there is a huge item which is via direct jia friction framework which we know where we need a consensus on and also some drugs that are related to bgp load balancing so quite a huge agenda so please present us to be on time because we are really for for session so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:44",
    "text": "personal changes so has i told in the introduction we you have two new chairs we already introduced ourself we also have a new responsible area director which is Martin welcome Martin so status update for we\u0027re working with we currently have two documents in via RFC ID Tokyo the VPN overlay and vdci a VPN overlay which as shown here mr. f especially due to the idea toner encapsulation draft which is a Stila ongoing maybe John can you tell us where the Turner on caps draft stands now I actually don\u0027t remember the exact exact status but it\u0027s fairly close to being RFC I mean it I can\u0027t remember if I already sent it to the ad and got it back with comments or if it\u0027s almost ready to be sent it\u0027s somewhere in that okay it should be moving forward pretty quickly thank you we get also via approval by the iesg and via fatty we bgp the EVP and prefixes the attachment was sent to the iesg we have also one document ready for submission to Yale to the IES G which is V our layer 2 layer 3 VPN multicast neighbor and we have also within our end some documents that we need to progress which are post working hopeless cause of the optimized yeah so Matt you should do via Shepard on this the explicit wrapping there will be a session today on the agenda and for the MVP and maybe I think we are waiting for some updates on the documents that should be done I think by the end of the month we have several documents that are also ready for a working group last call we are already known and there is a new one which is their diffraction framework then there is a session and the agenda on this one to give a bit of history for people who missed the discussion on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:44",
    "text": "mailing list so I requested the offers from the ACDF draft and the initial Direction draft to come with a merged solution so this diffraction framework is a measure of the to document so the ACDF and via DF election document we also adopted a document as a working of documents of the EVP and I am a multicast and we have several documents that are should be ready for working about adoption if we are you think we are not ready for working on production so if you change your mind please advise us I just one comment on the MSD PSA draft so normally the poor for the working all production ended yesterday but we received on the mailing list very few replies to the poor so we would like to ensure that at least people have read the draft and get a feedback so could we know who has read the draft in the room please raise your hand ms ese interoperation okay yeah very few people within with people who thinks that this document should be adopted raise your hand and within with yoga people who thinks or someone else in Rome who think that this document should not be adopted because there is something wrong and there is no interest for the working group thank you it\u0027s very important for us to get feedback on the list because being silent we don\u0027t know if you disagree to get to document adopted or not so please express your mind whatever you agree or disagree or even don\u0027t care it\u0027s yeah I was just saying you pulled the room but as the minute taker I can\u0027t really okay okay so I mean if you want that in the minute you got to tell me what to put yeah we can tell you at the end of the session yeah just clarify that I didn\u0027t say it it was only three or four out of red and then any three of us I thought it should be adopted and nobody said it shouldn\u0027t be adopted but overall there wasn\u0027t sufficient feedback okay we have a lot of working group documents that are expired unfortunately in we would like to get a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:45",
    "text": "feedback on each document to see do we need to progress them do we need to drop off per gram so yes first of all the MVP and fast failover so Greg told that you would like to take over one progress the document which is a good news so I don\u0027t know if Greg is in the room or not unfortunately not for the evpn in terms of net forwarding we would like to hear about the current status because the document is expiring right that\u0027s a very important draft and I was supposed to do it before this ITF and didn\u0027t get a chance to do it and this is one of the things high on my list very important draft I mean this is the complimentary draft to the prefix advertisement okay so please update it sure do you want me to give an update on the EVP entry oh yes well yeah that one you know seemed like at the time I did it that was a long time ago four or five years ago seemed like the use case has disappear or the interest rate has disappeared so I\u0027m not going to revise it okay MVP PC and the feedback who thinks that we need to park this document okay who wants to progress this document if there is no one so document will be talked okay let\u0027s pack it via chirpy who wants to take over the work no one we pack it yeah Adrienne yeah agent Farrell to be clear are you making the decisions in the room or are you making the decisions on the list no I think we Apollo list as well as to consensus room so yeah I think I\u0027m not sure that all the original authors yeah yeah I think I think we need to go to the list for the proposal to park if we don\u0027t get any interest but we may need a feedback on the list and system requirements is there any offer in the room okay if you can\u0027t read we have an update l Philippian end system okay and VPLS multihoming we missing here at his "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:46",
    "text": "input is the one dismissing others less so yes but Adrienne or juniper guys if you can squeeze his arm but you would like to progress the document okay good to know so we would like also to get the statues of some documents that are not on the agenda today so first we lay a free VPN yang do we have an offer in the room who can provide an update we received by email or request to try to progress the yang model as soon as possible but we would like to ensure that we are really ready no one okay layer 2 VPN I think I have just one slide to display and this one yeah this is a Montreal I have an update for the layer 2 VPN so basically we have two updates and then we now comply to the network instance model and we also added the interface reference so the attachment circuits now refer to the interface graph and I think we believe the authors believe that the draft is complete and we would like to make a last call thank you one comment regarding the yank models as a chair we would like to ensure that all the yank models that are related to VPNs are modeled in the same way so I don\u0027t know if the offers from the different yang model l2 l3 m VPN and evpn are talking to each other to ensure that from an operational point of view and configuration point of view the user will have the same experience is that is this work already done or not okay because I read really quickly the draft and I see some frequency between my jumper the wrong target configuration and so on so maybe you should do another pass to another career or you may want to address in the list what inconsistencies you are singing but I try to be consistent yeah I also would like from this office to maybe discuss with the routing policy young people in Alta gwg to see how the housing policy can be used or extended for the VPN yang models because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:46",
    "text": "you may need to use export or import policies at a certain point so you need to know how to do it do you need to extend oh you need to yeah just discuss with them jeffires not speaking is you know the policy editor and mostly as a ghostwriter and the l3 VPN draft the problem that we\u0027re gonna have with the palace the generic policy module is that well we can extend policy elements that can match things many vendors do very different things in terms of the VPN technologies in terms of how leaking happens between the various tables this is where the problems we ran into which is simply the through outing config module and they decided to solve about my punting it out of the module hmm don\u0027t you just agree on some very simple things like setting route targets or something like that so the attack has at least taken into the l3 VPN module is similar to a lot of vendors in the sense that targets become a property of the vrf to some extent but many people also do policy algebra on top of that to do things no for example like hub-and-spoke so the the challenge becomes not just how to make a vrf have it the property that allows grouts to be attracted to it appropriately which BGP could pick up but also how to describe route leaking without formalizing somebody\u0027s policy algebras being canonical okay thank you just to add that if if you meant pegging the l2 VPN or evpn to the policy then I think I don\u0027t know whether you meant for just for l3 VPN or not at least for l3 VPN LCVP okay then but we didn\u0027t our drafts have progressed quite well and we wouldn\u0027t want to pack our drafts to the policies okay that\u0027s not complete okay thank you so next draft burne Prasad your updates there have been some recent discussions among the co-authors of this dress and we are going to make some progress on this one thank you that is until gateway Adrian Farrell yeah I will just respond not to fit some silly NIT this is at the sort of stage of building implementation and is linked to a draft that\u0027s in the spring working group that explains how all the pieces fit together so has to be sort of seen in that context but getting there I think is the the status yeah go ahead okay I didn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "decide the nsh bgp control plane document we think is is fairly stable and and is now dependent on where we\u0027d like it to be dependent on the MPLS sfc work as well but failing that it\u0027s applicable to nsh on its own and that also then is that the sort of implementing getting stability stage yeah and then the next one the best service training document which I\u0027m not an author of that I wrote quite a lot of the text I think you can work that out that that I think is actually in the field so it\u0027s what site in the field are talking so I think we should be moving that to some form of closure okay and perhaps we should talk to get some some of the people who have it and they\u0027re using it to speak up whether it works and whether they need anything else hmm okay thank you so we are done with our statues let\u0027s move on Hendra thank you i\u0027m here i\u0027m andy malice i\u0027m here is co-chair of pals and also representing the mpls working group this is not to start a discussion here in best rather this is an advertisement for a discussion which will be happening on Thursday in the MPLS working group and so we just want to make you aware so if you have an opinion we invite you to please come to the MPLS working group where the discussion will actually take place so the issue that\u0027s that we\u0027re talking about here is the fact that LDP is currently specified to use TCP md5 for authentication purposes as BGP used to now in RFC 59 225 as I\u0027m sure your you\u0027re aware TCP changed to to deprecate md5 and use TCP AO and so LDP is looking to follow in BGP s footsteps and we\u0027re also working with the security ADEs and the security area to determine what\u0027s a good cryptographic mechanisms such as for example perhaps sharra 120 HR 256 or so on to replace "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "TCP md5 how however this is a bigger issue than just LDP this actually affects a number of working groups and number of protocols they\u0027re all up there so I won\u0027t bother read them to you and what we\u0027re trying to do in the routing area is have a coordinated approach to this and so as I said we\u0027re we\u0027re in discussions with the security ADEs and security area is the best way to to go forward as well and as I said the discussion will be in the MPLS working group on Thursday so with that thank you thank you intro hi I\u0027m Laura Thunder rolling ad another question for you just another announcement so I was talking about security today we have a routing area chairs lunch because if you have notice there have been not only for the P but in general for many of the routing area drafts of work there\u0027s been a lot of pushback from the security area in form of we need better authentication fidelity and everything else we believe or I believe at least that many of the reasons that we don\u0027t necessarily do or implement is because of operational circumstances operational issues so what we were doing is at lunch today we talked about several things that we want to do as an area and so the advertisement is to invite you to participate as well we want to start one of the first steps we want to do is create some type of templates that we can use for security considerations so that is a lot easier for us to have common language that we not only agree with in the area but they we agree with with the security DS as well so that when we say things like we run inside a domain for example that we know what that is not only that we know but that other people know as well and that we have common language for that so one of the first steps we\u0027re going to do is create some templates so that we can go and pick and put into drafts that doesn\u0027t replace any other security considerations that you should have in your drafts but it\u0027s the first step to help you or to help everyone get to where we want and to avoid discussions long discussions with the security area late in the process right we can attack that here or early in the process it helps us published a lot faster Thanks thank you next presenter Jeffrey okay so this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:57",
    "text": "presentation is about a new proposal using how to use labels with MEP any BPM the quarters from juniper and Huawei so first of all panel aggregation in MEP N or EVM we could use p2 envita knows whether it\u0027s a TPP to Madonna or her CBP to impede on oh we can use one tunnel for multiple VPNs or for multiple BDS and with that the ingress PE needs to impose a label that identifies the VPN or a bid or BB which is broadcast domain and then impose a tunnel label current specifications their label is upstream allocated from the ingress peace lego space and that label is advertised in corresponding TMZ routes or in a VPN case that I\u0027m a route when the egress route equals PE will maintain contacts label tables they say one table for each ingress PE and that can delay the entries in the contest label people are basically the upstream area labels advertised by the ingress PE so when when the egress P gets a packet it was the first CL panel label and from the tunnel a bow you can identify which contest label to go to use and then it goes into the contact level to look up the inner label and and identify which VPN or PD this packet is for another case is multi multihoming segment supporting an EVP and if I can use this horizon procedure when the egress piece ends a Pam packet that it receives from Marty Holmes segment using pitten pitten Oh it also need to impose a label that I\u0027ve been identifies the source segment so that when the egress PE received a packet it knows that the packet is originated from a particular Eden a segment so that it won\u0027t send back to that segment again this is also absolutely located and this another form of hano aggregation because a single tunnel it means though it\u0027s useful a single VPN or a single broadcast domain is actually used for multiple segments and we need to use the label and midi file the segment so that works in theory but there is a scanner issue with it consider that if you have X number of EPS or P DS and you have each VP and you have y plus 1 number of keys that means "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:59",
    "text": "that on each Hubert egress PE you need to maintain x times y number of labels and giving a using a concrete example if you have 1,000 P VP ends and each has 1,001 piece you will need 1 min and labor alone just to identify those deviants so that issue has not surfaced before because the PDMP tunnel aggregation has not really been deployed or it may be the this county has not come to that step yet however beer transport is inherit aggregation turn on and it is becoming it\u0027s getting adopted Mormon or PD probably well soon so this becomes a seriously ask any issue and similarly this is also a problem for MP to MP turn on so there the proposed solution here is that piece will coordinate their label allocation the allocation will be from a common labor pool carved out lava danced out of the dance room allocation able space this is no longer upstream allocated and this this means simpler forwarding because you no longer need the context label space label table here we we we refer that labor pool as a domain wide common block it\u0027s very much like a sRGB block and in addition to that the they also use the same label for the same api or for the same BD or for the same eden assigments with that we can reduce number of labels as well if you have ex VPNs you only need X number of labels so what if that common block is not large enough we just happen to have the deployment with where you just cannot carve out a block largely enough the solution there is that you can use a separate label space it\u0027s very much like upstream your local label space but it\u0027s this it\u0027s not it\u0027s no longer one for each ingress P you can just say R use one or two just a couple separate label spaces and the other piece was still coordinate their label allocation from that space now how do you identify this label a new neighbor space so in in the in a path data train the label stack will be alike "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:02",
    "text": "like this that out of us you have the tunnel label and then follow that you have a label that identifies that label space and their labor is allocated from the the common block and then you follow that you have the VPN or BD or AES ID in five minutes so what does that means in signaling so today the the labels are advertised in the I mail routes even in case or in pin 0 T in the American case in that pins a tonneau attribute field pj field we with P 2 and P tonneau it is assumed that the label is a stirring elevated so now\u0027s because we are no longer using the upstream a local label we need to indicate that this is not from the absolute miracle label space is Congress from common blocks so it was the introduced let\u0027s see bit in the flags field of the PTA attribute and then if you are not using a common block label here instead you\u0027re using a separate common label space then the pin 0 or I\u0027m a routes need to carry an additional extended community we called contacts label space identifier extended community it is a translates OPEC a extended community in the form of ID type plus ID type tuple in this proposal we\u0027re saying saying that idea type will be 0 just meaning that the ID value is a label from the domain wide common neighbor block and for if you need a didn\u0027t as a signal identify early Portuguese yes I labor here then it must be from the same label for same neighbor space as your PD identifying label for space with that it would only need additional signaling so summary instead of using upstream yellow key labels we use labels from on this common block and all the peas allocate labels from that common block and they all use the same label and then if the block is not enough in we use a separate label table labor space shared by all the peas and there are some other more details about some situation where you have if you have tano segmentation those details are explained in in the traps I\u0027m just going to skip that so we\u0027re seeking comments and we\u0027ll do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:05",
    "text": "further punishing there are some sections that we need to fear in about MP to MP situations after that will thank you a Lisa Cisco a question for the interior is option B when we crossing different a s1 jury these global label needs to get translated right and how do they if they do how do they get coordinated the they either get coordinate across your entire network or you can just with that water routers switch the label they can get there they can switch to a different common a bow for for the next domain you expect the controller to do that a centralized controller yeah you can you can have a controller or for for each for each ASO is please provide or something like that it\u0027s not much different from from assigning your route targets or distinguished right right and then someone if someone has this common pool capability can stretch this concept and say that they can use it for underlay as well right and then the we get into different kind of I guess territory but that\u0027s for a different discussion the under lace overlay there are different issues with them separately one question as a working group member do you already have some customers that have is getting issues we haven\u0027t seen a customer having this issue already most likely because the PTO and pita know aggregation was probably not deployed at all but with beer coming that the beer tunnel is an aggregation tunnel so as as long as your number of weekends having times number of peas if that number goes up then the problem will will show up for sure if you have a small deployments with where the x times y is not enough not more large then sure no problem one other question with respect to the point that you brought up in terms of the actual customer issues typically the customers use non aggregates because I guess in terms of their skill even though it increases the estate in the core in terms of their skill it is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:08",
    "text": "number of the SP MC or IP MC tunnels are not that large for them to be concerned do you have you actually seen a SQL issue with respect to the some customer deployment that they need to do aggregation so as I said today we haven\u0027t seen actual PTO mutinied regulation yet probably because they don\u0027t have that scale issue yet or just because the and so so far they can tolerate with that man number of panels in their core but now with with beer coming the beer is aggregation panel so you are using aggregation with beer and so as soon as your x times y gets noisy enough you you will have a scanning issue Stephanie Gosk is patinas working with member bswadd normally try to solve some scaling issues that we already have but here you say that if we are going to deploy beer we may fall into over scaling issues so why should we go to move to be huh this issue is not caused by beer is exposed by beer so let\u0027s say that beer is never here and you\u0027re just using P 2 and P tonneau and let\u0027s say if you your network can support many many pitten pitten O\u0027s without doing aggregation then sure you don\u0027t have this popular problem but you have the problem of that many PMP tano stayed in your core thank you do you have a current so I saw Cisco so if you do the aggregation over a single tree like this you can prove that I have less state but the thing with beer is that let\u0027s say the downside of that is that you shall have flooding right all the packets that go over the tree go everywhere but with beer you still have very unique you can identify each destination separately right so with Barry have the advantage of the state and no flooding okay actually that\u0027s a good point basically what ice is saying is saying with beer you don\u0027t need to do aggregation because you don\u0027t keep any estate in the core you do the aggregation to reduce the estates in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:08",
    "text": "core if you don\u0027t keep the estate in the core you don\u0027t need to do aggregation I\u0027m not sure if that\u0027s what I say saying no that was my own perspective present so quickly because yeah you won\u0027t have to know I\u0027m sorry but I have to keep the rain we can talk about this offline okay sure just for our information who has read this document raise your hand Thank You next speaker is Tara Jeffery about explicit tracking yes so this is update on this explicit tracking spec eric is the editor and he has made quite a few changes recently so this is just updates on his behalf first of all quickly over you that this draft covers two major topics the first topic is that they use this PTA in this way that\u0027s the tunnel type specifies it says the note on of information and then it has the if information required flag set the purpose of this is to provide a mechanism for an ingress nodes to to learn to find out which egress pease want to receive the traffic in a meantime it is not actually finding the flows through that to any particular tunnel this provides some useful information for monitoring program purpose and the second topic is a new flag in the in in pta its if information required per-flow flag and why do we use that let\u0027s say the ingress PE that it\u0027s sending out some selective pinzhi while car routes saying that I want to Risa I want to send traffic to star star or to Astarte flows and I said that per hour per flows flag that means that I want each egress PE to send back individual leaf routes for each flow for example the ingress can say that s pin z is for a particular star g star G or star star but the egress piece was sent back individual SG ad routes so this kind of leaf tracking at St level benefits beer or ingress "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:12",
    "text": "predication because now the ingress PE can use the that DVD route to know exactly which eager speeds need to receive that particular SC traffic so you can do more precise replication towards the egress key and this is without the need of sending individual SG s pins around so this introduced some changes in ingress ingress P processing of the receive DVD routes so those are the two major topics the the recent changes basically includes many tariff occasions and textual textual improvements very much thanks just the phone for his sorrow review as a shepherd and also changes in the way the leaf ad routes are constructed when it is sent in response to live to this new flag and we also have a new section detailing how ingress node process will receive DVD routes because of that flag so there I all those changes I want to highlight one particular change basically how to make a leaf ad routes indicate that it is a response to that LIR per-flow flag previously we will use a special rd in the DVD routes there was a more complex solution and with some unintended side effects so the new way is that if a leaf ad routes is since in response to that if we information required for flow flag then it will carry a PDF PDA attributes with the frack sites that PDA was not mandatory before but now it is mandatory if that DVD route is sent in response to that error li are peripheral flag a lot of more details things changes in the in the draft escape those so this document or updates the wild card RFC\u0027s well he also modifies the ingress no processing of recidivate evils so he will update RFC 6514 and 75 24 so with all these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:15",
    "text": "changes we believe the document is ready for a working group last call in fact this documents is the deemed as a normative reference to the beer and VPNs back and which is ready for to go to harvested eaters so if this document could remove soot can progress quickly there will be great thank you any question I\u0027m Jerome from Maui copper into the benefit that the benefit of nesters and Ness Ness overhead of signal I i I am concerned more about the join agency it brings to peer so my main concern is that if it can be useful when two areas segmented areas both youth appear can this mechanism or so useful I think you mentioned appear to areas deployed the post deployed appear that is to say segment leader segment leader am avian but the post use appear I\u0027m not sure if that is relevant here and indeed this work this does work with beer ok this dissolution does work with beer in fact it\u0027s one of the reason is it seems to be mentioned that in the PIA and maybe in draught that it did not work when we use a segmented I am a peon we will need to discuss that in more detail the it should work or or if there is a issue we add this - that should have been covered but so on the spot right now I don\u0027t think we have time to go to the bottom okay that\u0027s the offline okay thank you thank you are you having the next steps so this document already passed to working hope last call and these comments will be introduced as part of the Chappelle review as a working or share I would like to issue a short working group last core of just one week is it fine for everyone in the room if we go right this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:16",
    "text": "okay and Jeffrey also mentioned the relationship of his draft with dmvpn draft there is a normative link between the two documents the issues that we may have is that as far as we know there is no current implementation of this explicit tracking draft which means that based on our best policy we should not progress this document to further step because we don\u0027t have any implementation but this if we go this way we will block also with EBL document so we would like to hear from you but we will also take it to the list if you agree to process to proceed with the document so the explicit tracking document without an implementation so please raise your hand in the room or Israel voice if you are against progressing this document without an implementation is it on an individual are you gonna make are you making this call on a draft basis or are you saying that let\u0027s skip the prerequisite for all drafts no it\u0027s some paragraphs basis and per situation basis we have discussed we have discussed multiple options to try to solve this issue and it looks that this solution of relaxing our whole seems to be the simplest one Martine speaking just to cry finally the policy if I may call it and like that allows the working group to decide whether we want to progress or not at half without an implementation so this is not a special case this is simply raising the the awareness of the hope that we will attach it to the list next picker maybe Petrus a hi I\u0027m Patrice Blissett this is for the EVP and yang I think it\u0027s gonna be pretty quick so we haven\u0027t presented last time in Singapore so I just want to give you a quick update where we are this has been a lot of work and back and forth and on the author and well you can read all the thing that has been updated here about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:16",
    "text": "the about the yang model I think the main one that we have done is we we ensure that the this model align with the network layer model that was proposed by other folks so that work has been done and I think from from our side all the author believes that the work has been completed so we would like to seek for our good Blasco okay any question thank you next speaker is Irish so this is this is the rep one of the IGMP MLD proxy draft which basically tries to solve the issue when you have all active multihoming in a VPN and you get the IGMP join or leave can get hash to one of the link to one and arrived at one PE and leave can go to another P so we\u0027re in here we\u0027re trying to solve that issue by sinking the IGMP Eskimo G\u0026S star emoji Estates between the multihoming please so changes since last revision is basically minor changes we\u0027ve expanded the terminology section and we reduce the selective multicast procedures to that of ingress replication because there was an overlap between the four point-to-multipoint between this draft and bond procedures and for bond procedures we\u0027re gonna defer the selective multicast to to that draft and reference it here instead of trying to cover it in two places we there was there was a section that talked about the multiple tunnel type discovery and again in order to tidied "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:16",
    "text": "up this trap and get it ready for last call we decided that it is also missing certain procedures and it is easier to cover it separately rather than in here so and the remaining changes were basically tidying it up the draft and replacing some of the terminology which we threw out the draft now instead of pointing to the Evi comma B D we just simply refer to the BDA as a British comment because we already know what it in context of what a VI that is so it has been around this draft for about two and a half years it has been implemented by multiple vendors and we think it is ready for a working group Lascaux and we like to request a mascot for re I have two comments so the first one I was reading the a draft is this morning again I found an inconsistency so with the esmad routers and always by the P even if there is a local source is that right well the for the local source we are saying that now we\u0027re gonna be using SP MC rot and the s Metro is just going to be advertising the information for the joint you know Eskimo Joe is dying I understand but what I mean is if you have a P and you have a receiver and a source in the same broadcast domain in the P yes if you if you get a join from the receiver are you sending this matter out even though there is no you have not no okay there is a there is a section that says that you shouldn\u0027t miss another text saying that you shouldn\u0027t okay so if you can send me a email pointing that out I\u0027ll take care of it sure yeah please try to fix it before we go to working hope last call we had some offline discussion and Eric Rosen went through the whole thing and I\u0027m surprised he didn\u0027t catch it because it\u0027s very cool my yeah my second comment is I also sent a few comments to the list like long time ago and one of my my comments that you know it wasn\u0027t addressed in the draft is to simplify the the IGMP leaf sync procedure and in particular there are a lot of use cases where you don\u0027t need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:19",
    "text": "have the whole leaf procedure especially when you got the receivers directly attached to their PE right or even they are you know they see that is directly attached support itself proxy so in those cases when you you send a leave message you can simply remove the the s Komachi from the from the effect that you can remove the state and what that means is that the the HMP leave sync route can be optional right for those cases that you were saying that there are only confined to the multihoming PS and not to any other piece the receivers and sources yeah no what I mean is the in order to sync this state in the multi-home see you need obviously the IGMP join sync route and the HMP leaf sync round what I\u0027m saying is that in some cases the the HMP leaves and route is really not needed and it can simplify the the procedure so you can I cannot find what scenarios you have in mind yeah again resend that email that I sent thanks please be quick with your colors so I just had question for all right that yeah it was quick comment on your ratio name please mancom nur from Cisco so quick comment that will it not be very difficult to have selective decision when to sync the leave and when not to sing the leaf with respect to implementation so will it not be good idea to be a symmetric or maybe we can discuss offline in which case you want it not to be Thanks yeah I think we need to basically see what cases that is and evaluate it because if we have the mechanism already in place then the question becomes what kind of simplification we get out of it okay please discuss and synchronize offline thank you your so next presenter okay this is there\u0027s an old draft and i refresh it and i think it is already in your IQ for the working group Glasgow just wanted you know to go over quickly go over the status of it if so the little bit of history is been around for five years and it got adopted three years ago and it has been deployed also about the few years and there is not from the previous "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:22",
    "text": "review which was very row till now there hasn\u0027t you know there is no changes so it is pretty stable and it isn\u0027t this is basically an important solution in order for the evpn and ppb evpn getting get deployed in brownfield scenario where you already have VPLS or ppb VPLS and you wanted to introduce a VPN or pv via VPN into that Network how do we do that without any requirement on or any changes to the existing legacy Pease and making sure that the whole thing works seamlessly so this draft describes that and has been implemented by several vendors and has been in deployment so it is in pretty good shape so it is already in your queue so any question on this draft okay next one that\u0027s not you this is with the affection framework sorry about the the phone\u0027s messed up yeah so the designated forwarder is the P in charge of sending the traffic to to a multi home C II or multi home network and so RFC 743 tool basically tells how you should select this TF for designated forwarder but uh as we had deployments we found some in efficiencies in that selection so um my name is Jorge Robin and this is the list of the cutters and basically this is the the way we addressed some of those issues that we saw India in the baseline 743 to the middle phase three so in seven four three two as I said before we have this designated forward an election procedure this is what we call the default TF election and it\u0027s not only about deciding who the DFS but all the a procedure associated to discovering the piece build the candidate list and and of course choosing who the TFS and in particular the DF algorithm there were 743 to uses is based on a modular function between the villain and the number of piece now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:22",
    "text": "so three more than three years ago we started working on a couple of documents so one is the DF election document and the other one was there a C and D F document and those two documents they were addressing different issues that we we had with the default DF election procedure they by the way they may work together perfectly well so during the ACDF election trough a separ Shepard review basically Stephan strongly suggested that these two drafts should be merged and basically this is the result of it we merged the content of both drafts and we clarified at the definition of the IDF election extended community that we are using to signalling what type of the election we are doing and we also added some little improvements that we are going to discuss here today so the first thing we are going to basically comment on the HRW which is part of the IDF election draft and this is Satya in the yeah in the base HRW yeah in the base HRW what we have is in the hash the ethernet segment value itself did not enter into the equation so what happens is if you have the same VLANs exactly same villains configured on different ESS then the carving will be exactly similar so the thinking was that that if we want a more uniform distribution then we have to enter the es itself into the hash so that\u0027s the main change so I should also mention that in the default 742 the value of the es also doesn\u0027t come into the modulo algorithm so how we did it is right so the only changes as I said is we put the es into the hash and for that the digest that was just that of the VLAN we took 14 white value which is the villain and the ethernet segment like concatenated together and then took the crc so that\u0027s the change and so these are the advantages like if the same set of peas are multi-home to the same set of ESS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:25",
    "text": "then whether you use the modulo DF election in RFC 743 to or in fact in the base HRW they would result in the same P being and elected elected the DF for the same set of custom ends so this can have some adverse side effects on both load balancing and redundancy because now for every year it\u0027s the same P which is the beer and so we thought that okay if we put the ESI into the DF selection algorithm it will introduce some additional entropy which will make it more uniform but there are cases in which one would want the carving to remain the same in the sense that the HRW actually does a ranking of the piece and by this method you would lose that control on the ranking but that has some specific use cases which I think in one of the next talks sandy is going to explain that thank you thank you yeah the second part of the draft which is coming from the other draft is there a sea influenced DF election and let me refresh what it is with an example you have this broadcast domain with four different PS and two different segments let\u0027s say that an individual attachment circuit in p2 which is that EF for both different segments of fails and what RFC 742 says is that p2 should actually withdraw the a deeper API route for that attachment circuit but what the RFC doesn\u0027t say is that based on that the apiece that are part of also of the ethernet segment should actually rerun the DF election and and remove from consideration p2 for the Ethernet segment twelve so this is precisely what we are doing with this draft we are actually taking that into consideration and we are rerunning the DF election of removing p2 for ethernet ii 12 now that was the initial draft but we are improving now in the framework traffic the new merged draft is that we are also modifying the deflection procedure for vadhana we\u0027re bundled services and now the DF election is based it\u0027s it\u0027s now / es comma villain whereas before it was based on es comic villain bundle so you can actually take full advantage of this capability to detect black holes and solve them the the other thing we are doing now in the framework is that we are signaling this capability in a bit in the IDF election extended community and in fact that the election extended community is defined in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:25",
    "text": "draft you have a section that basically shows you the format it\u0027s an already deployed extended community with the type and subtype already allocated by Ayana and this extended community has two fields that you have type and a bitmap in the the Christian community is advertised improv and processed along with the ears out and in the DF type what you encode is the DF election algorithm so the values we are defining or requesting to Ayanna and this draft is value 0 which is backwards compatible with the 743 to default modulo VF election value 1 is a HRW that we are defined in this in this draft and we are also allocating value 255 for experimental use there are other values already defined in other specifications like a value 2 in the preference based deflection draft and value 3 and 4 and now Ali is going to talk about some of them today and for the bitmap here we are encoding capabilities so it\u0027s not a DF election algorithm per se it\u0027s not choosing who the TFS in the ethernet segment but it\u0027s actually modifying some how the DF election procedure and as an example we have the bit 25 it\u0027s actually signaling this a CDF capability which is compatible with most of the idea collection types that we can think that if type failed and yeah and there are also other bits already defined in other specifications so some conclusions and next steps so you\u0027ve seen this is actually a pretty old new document in the sense that is merging to you know documents that we\u0027ve been discussing and they already even passed a working group last called so this new document basically what we are asking for is an immediate working group last call so please read and comment if you have any issues with it because it should be pretty much be done in a couple of weeks which we should really call for like a last call thank you and thanks a lot for the work to do the merge thank you any comment yes this document is coming from two documents that we are almost ready for working up last call very few changes has been introduced expect of the merge so yes we would like to proceed to be working or place call as soon as possible because this is an important piece of work and we have a lot of drafts that are coming after so we need to finalize "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:27",
    "text": "this one thanks a lot for the work thank you NeXT\u0027s speaker mine kumano is gonna come and present i\u0027m gonna take a break okay sure thank you for unions so I\u0027m sure I think everyone would have question in mind that we already spoke about two kind of different DF election procedure do we still need the speakings imagine so is there really need of the third one so let us consider that whatever DF election procedure today we have whether it is RFC say one four three two or whatever we spoke in the previous presentation so the way it it works today in this topology c1 is multi-home - p1 and p2 and we have only one VLAN configured there wheel and one so if any I jump adjoin coming from receiver side basically it could go to either of the peas and we have IGMP proxy procedure which says that we can sync the join to the other P in the redundancy group and what is going to happen and here we can see that p1 has been elected as a DF and p2 is non DF so when multicast traffic comes and it will be p1 who is going to forward towards the receiver and p2 will keep dropping but what is the problem the problem is the scenarios where there are customer who are provisioning complete multicast traffic in one VLAN we are actually not utilizing the other link at all so we are going always p1 is the one who will be following the traffic and p2 will come into the picture only in case of failure so this is where we are coming that there is a need can we improve something and the DF election procedure where you can load balance even in this case so the requirement briefly would be can we distribute the multicast flows even if the whole multicast traffic has been provisioned in single wheeler and it should be working for IGMP v2 v3 and MLD V 1 V 2 receivers IGMP v1 we are not considering in this document because we don\u0027t see any practical deployment as of now and new DF election procedure definitely it should have backward compatibility with all of the other DF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:29",
    "text": "election procedure so the way it is the solution the way we are proposing yeah so let\u0027s see we have some unique ass traffic flow here and now there will be default DF election when I say default DF election basically we are using the HRW base DF election and let\u0027s at p1 get elected as a DF and p2 is non DF for all of the bump traffic p1 will be the D of n p2 will be non DF at this point of time so I have a new membership request coming in and membership request reached it is just 2 P 2 and P 2 is sinking the join using route type 7 to p1 now each of the P they are going to rerun the DF Felix and for this particular SG and the final state let us say that for SG 1 P 1 becomes nd nan DF + SG 1 P 2 becomes DF so it means that if you see the left side table the forwarding state will be for SG 1 P 1 will be in the non DF mode and SG 1 P 2 will be the DF mode for rest of the bump traffic still P 2 will be in the non DF more so when traffic multicast traffic starts coming it will be the p2 who will be forwarding the traffic towards receiver and in similar way let us say we have the next SG 2 requests coming in and again if the join gets high as 2 P 2 and P - we will sing the joy into p1 again they are going to read in the DF election for this particular SG - and this time s G - D F becomes p1 and for the same flow p2 becomes a non DF in this case now multicast traffic will be forwarded by p1 and same thing can be extend for star G as well so in the next section okay so with respect to the solution which we are proposing it is enhancement of existing HRW based algorithm and why we are using s G R star G info because apart from ESI VI info the this is the key information in multi gas flow which can differentiate between different flows and including s comma G R star comma G info we are going to get better distribution any questions so in this version basically we are using the extended community whatever has been designed they decided in the framework and we are using one of the type value as a for for for multicast the efflux and Stefan will keep speaking as working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:32",
    "text": "group member one question why did you choose to pick a new TF type but not a capability within v h w DF type so the reason for that is it modifies the hash and it is a new hash and that\u0027s why we thought is a a new DF time thank you sure one question again but it\u0027s more related to the diffraction framework draft I have read so dress really quickly but I don\u0027t see that we have a clear definition of what should be a DF type and what should be a capability you\u0027re right there is no may be a clear definition but d/f capability works across DF types whereas DF type is individual type is exclusive or either this or that so if it helps I don\u0027t know do you want to add that to the draft for travel on Nokia yeah we can add some text clarifying that yeah the other aspect is TF type defines the algorithm to choose the entity F right what has the capability per se is not enough to define who they da face right so capability works in conjunction with type whereas the you know type can work without the capability so capability improves some additional aspects on the DF time thank you I\u0027d have a nice catch that was a very salient point you cut your the next one now that we are in you\u0027re on topic of the DF election this is another one so we presented that about a year ago and this is basically an incremental improvement on top of HRW algorithm for faster DF election upon recovery because the current default based mechanism runs the timer and it relies on the timer expiry for ensuring that all the pease "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:32",
    "text": "have the same state to expedite that we introduced to capability in here one based on the handshake so you don\u0027t have to rely on the timer and second if the Pease have clock synchronization then the second capability is based on the clock synchronization so what we did in this draft is basically not that we got the type versus capability a straight out in our deer framework it was very easy to leverage that and use it in this draft and basically we are introducing two capability one for handshaking and font for synchronization if the Pease we are assume we are requiring that all the Pease in the redundancy group to have that this capability in order for it to get exercised if one of the PE don\u0027t have this capability the you know they all go back to the default mode and what is when I was looking at this traffic I think what is missing is if both capable leti both synchronization and the handshake is available the Jeff doesn\u0027t currently mentioned which one should supersede I need to add that to the draft I\u0027ll add it in the next Rev so the draft is in pretty decent shape and it is ready for a working group call okay any question thank you flexible cross-connect alright fxc flexible cross-connect this is a new service a VPN service which is basically a derivative of the PWS point-to-point what the initial version was introduced in ITF 96 about three years ago and got updated last year and this is again another draft that is being requested by a multiple service provider and has been implemented by multiple vendors what I did in this trap is clarify some of the terms which I find it you know but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:33",
    "text": "find it confusing in each the Jeff was talking about VLAN on Emmett unaware fxc and villain aware fxe and for the single homing and multihoming and I found that confusing because when you talk about villain a very or villain another are you talking in terms of the control plane signaling or are you talking about in terms of the data plane so that I what I did I cleaned that up and right now it basically we got only because we got two modes one is fxe flexible cross-connect and with that one we don\u0027t do any villain signally and then there is a epic say with villain technology and that makes it very clear that what we are talking about in FX see the difference between FX e and v pw s is in a nutshell if somebody asks you what is the difference FX e requires vid or VLAN vrf it is introduced as wheel and vrf vera so we have we started with mac v RF and then we added IP v RF for the IRP functionality because we need to do both l2 and l3 forwarding here is a VLAN v RF and one might ask why do we need a VLAN PRF because in FX e we are aggregating multiple ports into a single tunnel single service tunnel so at the egress when you receive a packet you need to be able to know based on the villain which port you\u0027re going to and that\u0027s why we need a vid vrf to do a lookup to know what what we are going to so that\u0027s in a nutshell the difference between the FX e and you know and evpn v p WS e v pn v p WS what was between two ports there was not there was an aggregation so then when we have multihoming then the and you\u0027re trying to aggregate everything into a single service tunnel then if one of the port fails we need to know which villain got impacted and for that we need VLAN signaling and that\u0027s why we call it FX rivet VLAN signal so we had a failure scenario friction which was pretty slim and thanks to Jorge he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:36",
    "text": "provided that takes and we expanded it with a nice figure and Alba thank you and I think the draft is now is in pretty good shape because I went through the whole thing and I modified these terminology to make it consistent and to get rid of ambiguity it has been around for a couple of years and it is ready for working group call any question who has read the draft okay thank you we will take you to the list okay so this is a decision and this is my last one so you don\u0027t have to worry too much so this again this is one of the draft that was realized needed some time back four years ago and we started with the need for a virtual Ethernet segment when we had an Ethernet access and we had a queue in queue and we needed to instead of having a physical cord have a logical port because of a service for wider requirement and then it got expanded we needed to support that for the MPLS an IP network as well and we added that about three years ago so this revision is just a refresh of revs zero one and it relative to every zero one doesn\u0027t you know just a refresh and it the functionality is very much needed because even when we talk about the DCI scenario and when we connect multiple EVP and this is over VX land or MPLS core we need to use this notion of the vs which is described in this draft again it has been implemented and deployed by multiple vendors and this is ready for a working group call okay thank you different speaking as a working out member I think this is a useful work especially for VNA thank you Thanks who has rights the draft okay thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:38",
    "text": "well take also to the list just a question for you so you are requesting adoptions for many draft do you have a kind of priority I will I\u0027ve been asking for working group last call do you want to differentiate working for now just for me walking up adoptions of working grow my adoption yes I have a preference so do you want me I\u0027ll send you an email oh ho ho I finish this film you\u0027ve been controlling for Geneva so Geneva is the encapsulation backed up by the and field3 working group and very much evpn can be used along with Geneva but we needed to define some specifics so Sammi asked me to present this on his behalf he couldn\u0027t make it to this IETF so here we go yeah it\u0027s so you can use in Geneva mainly based on what the a VPN over later off says right you have the basics there but there are certain things that you need to specify you know specifically this draft was presented in ITF 100 and at the time was focused on a couple of things a new type in the PGP tunnel encapsulation attribute or external community and also a new sub TLV that is used to signal from the egress P or MDE to the ingress what genève internal options are supported so in revision 2 what we are is a new option TLV for for genève we call it an adoption and we are also clarifying some aspects the eternal option TLV is represented in the diagram here you have two ways of using it if you use it with the length and 0 you only have 4 bytes you basically have the the option header if you use it with length 1 means that you have 4 additional bytes in addition to the header so either way you have 2 flags that we are defining there B and the DL flag and if you use the additional 4 extra bytes you can also encode "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:38",
    "text": "a source ID what are those flags and the source ID and what are why are we using those the B bit stands for bum bit and basically we needed an in Geneva we needed in the data path an indication that they payload is actually a bum frame so you can see an example here on the left hand side of this slide so if you have an all active multi-home C connected to for instance p1 and p2 and you have a remote p3 let\u0027s say for instance you get a bump traffic sorry bump traffic you you get unknown unicast traffic coming from c3 to p3 we do a Mac look up the the Mac is not there so if we have ingress application we need to flood that frame after encapsulating it in a Geneva packet to p1 and p2 so what happens if for any reason p1 and p2 they already know the information for their destination MAC address well what it happens is that both will forward and we will have packet duplication in c1 now we actually avoid this situation in this is a transient situation so as soon as p3 learns the MAC address the duplication is gone but this transient situation you know you can take as long as the PGP are the advertisements you know take to be propagated and so on and so forth so we solve this in the MPLS by using a different label for multicast and unicast but in overlay tunnels we don\u0027t have MPLS labels right so for instance in VX land there is nothing we can do about it so in Geneva we wanted to avoid that so we are defining this a bit and when we set the the B bit and p3 basically p1 and p2 they know about it and and in that case they can recognize that the the payload is a bump packet and only the IDF will forward so that\u0027s why we need to be a bit led you wanted to add something well I just want to add a bit of clarification that the purpose of the bomb bit has been described in EVP and overlay which is sitting in the RFC editor queue so we just riff in here we can say that we need a bomb bit because of the EVP and overlay and this because of the same reason that we have it for the GPE and cap we have it for the Jenny Van Camp fair enough yeah the second bit we are defining the option TLV is the leaf bit and basically uh any VPN III again when we use it with them feel as we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:38",
    "text": "an ESA label that is indicating that they the bomb traffic is coming from a leaf attachment circuit so again in you know we didn\u0027t know didn\u0027t have anything similarly in the overlay channel so in genève we are defining this bit in such a case that when when we have any tree kind of service if you receive a bump traffic from a leaf attachment circuit in p2 we can actually some traffic and avoid the situation that you have in the diagram so if you don\u0027t have any data path indication that this is coming from a leaf p1 would actually send to the leaf and the route if you do have an indication it is a data path you can a p1 can actually filter out the traffic and only send to the route so that\u0027s why we we have the L bit in the final use cases when you have a multihoming for overlay tunnels according to the Ethiopian overlay draft you should follow the local vias procedures so we are not changing that here we are only offering an optional procedure which is similar to what we do in in MPLS actually it\u0027s the same procedure that we use in MPLS so again in in overlay tunnels we didn\u0027t have such a thing as an MPLS label so here we are adding this source ID which is a three byte field where you can actually encode the ESA label that you signal in ad routes and if you do that and you know should you want to use that procedure instead of the local bias procedure then you have a consistent behavior across MPLS and genève apiece right so one of the limitations we had in with local bias is that you cannot have a mix of pls and you know and overlay piece in the same broadcast domain so with this you could actually have genève and MPLS piece in the same broadcast domain that\u0027s pretty much it so basically we\u0027ll keep working on it we need to clarify a few points but we would like to request the comments and feedback please any question thank you thank you next speaker is Patrice all right okay so this is gonna be a bit quick this is also very trivial draft for people who understand what we are doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:39",
    "text": "when we do proactive so yeah okay so if you look at the legacy story that we provided in the past where we do like for active stand by using Isis p-channel usually what you\u0027re gonna have is in the case of a lag coming from you see one of the people media will have an active link and the other P whatever standby link and we determined that using an ICC P channel in the middle where we do synchronization that method works for l2 services as well as l3 services so now we have challenges because some people say I don\u0027t want to use ICCP anymore and if you look at the RFC ICCP usually needs to run over and LDP session we have let\u0027s say if you have VX LAN or you have any other defendant capsulation that doesn\u0027t have LDP well people and are not happy to enable LD pictures for doing a nicety sinka so we came out with that idea of creating a per interface what we call port active load balancing for a VPN basically what we are doing is we are using the e be like portion the just about like four of the evpn framework and we use it to figure out who\u0027s gonna be the active and who is going to be the standby port and we put a bunch of assumption about I like what I see CP is providing that that you don\u0027t need to synchronize a bunch of stuffs anymore you can really do half I think it\u0027s pretty clear pretty lean there but at the end what we are doing is base on the AV rag we can have one part which will be inactive in the other one who is going to be in standby or you can all it out of sync so for very fast convergence so we are Maina like years a lot of advantages to do that and as I said you don\u0027t know a CCP you don\u0027t need a lip anymore it\u0027s very good for many technology like MPLS VX and even as our v6 it\u0027s also provide QoS capability that otherwise you would have problems and also works for l2 it works well three or four RB works in any cases it\u0027s a very in line also with the RFC the base our system and four three two-and orthogonal to that new framework we talked about for the multihoming so that\u0027s pretty much it any question okay I know you yeah I have a couple of comments are you saying in this night that you only need a year out and not the ad routes or it\u0027s just my interpretation well if you if you have if you don\u0027t have an e VI if you just go l3 you want to have an ad anyway right this can work just for l2 interface as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:39",
    "text": "well right but talking about layer 2 you do need to ad routes right yes ok it\u0027s kind of confusing India okay the other thing is don\u0027t you need to define an ideal type now that we have a create and stain the community for different types no TF type a new D F type for that yeah okay but I\u0027ll check the draft first and get back to you on that but in my opinion is just new but new load balancing mode as single active or all active now we call it proactive right but for the TF collection specifically it would be nice I mean you you may have like a bunch of peas and one badly configured or whatever so yeah where we need to be kind of a hash hash mix of ip+ ESI in this case if you just have all three let\u0027s say LP services right but you are modifying HRW and i don\u0027t see any reason why you couldn\u0027t use it with preference for instance it\u0027s kind of a capability it should work with like that but if your question is to add a new type to that same work I\u0027ll have a look yeah I\u0027m not sure about it maybe a capability will fit better between the capability and the type I think in this situation is a bit of wash but I would lean toward the toward the capability because it the functionality that it requires is a pretty minor is not a new algorithm because you know it can work with the villain carving it can work with the HRW or preference all we are doing is if it is working based on these we want to have do it on a per link basis you know yeah I I agree with that yeah and yeah in the ad routes basically you would signal this as single active right and so then to do remote piece will actually forward based on there so there\u0027s no change there\u0027s no Jerry multi-perspective right and also you need to make sure that the ACE a CTF capability is not turned on otherwise it wouldn\u0027t work right do you want me to make clarification about that I think we should I guess you should can read their framework draft and in the last one the last one is are you driving "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:39",
    "text": "the IRB interface state you have a section on the IRB thing right I know I read your draft even though you are not present in that part you asked me to get cut it short so let\u0027s talk about it right right okay we can talk about it that is the UF time if you want to discuss thank you it sounded like you guys want to drive the IRB interface status based on the yes yes exactly so this sounds weird if not wrong why they because multiple ESS can be on a for a single BD and you know in order to shut off the BD all the ESS needs to be off so let\u0027s take that offline yeah with the rest did you say that for the for this one we need to have the DFAC off which one did you say we need it to have it already influenced my trip or preference the preferred TF what I was thinking is if you get you have the AC TF on basically you are I mean you cannot rerun the IDF election based on their ID peripheral route because the full part is it is end of the both it is end of both you have it on you configure because that\u0027s a VLAN configuration we configure the villain on both but this is on the port basis so whenever the port becomes active and the villain is active then that villain is on so that this DF election is on a per port basis and the other one is on villain but if one port is active and when individual villain goes down for whatever reason we don\u0027t want to switch over to the airport right this is a Buddhist one Kalyan is it so that\u0027s what they say at the end of the boat right what we need to if you\u0027re not convinced we can have a discussion offline we\u0027re going to make verification on that point anyway anything else you\u0027re good you\u0027re good all right thank you thank you next presentation is about web optimization hi good afternoon my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:54",
    "text": "name is sandy Reese I\u0027m from a service provider called clarinet I think there are hello hi hi my name is sandy breeze I\u0027m from a service provider called clarinet and I want to talk to you about a problem that I\u0027m experiencing now in the wild and perhaps offer a solution to it so my problem exists where I have multihomed bees on an Ethernet segment particularly when I have more than two multi owned bees and it\u0027s controlling BOM traffic so in 7432 where the DF election is done modulo we have one PE that is tied to take all of the BOM traffic and to me that has a few problems firstly the bandwidth in the call which I would say that multicast flow the draft that we\u0027ve seen today that will help me tremendously so thanks for that I hope it makes it but the other problems are down to the sub optimal use of bandwidth online card processing and the fact that remotely II still have to go and send this traffic out to all of the people that are participating in this in this segment which is just unnecessary a possible solution to this might be to describe this function of whether we need to advertise a route type 3 so the inclusive multicast whether we need to attract that traffic to that PE so we might say that on a segment dek needs to advertise the I met route type 3 for an e VI if and only if he\u0027s configured on at least one Ethernet segment which means he\u0027s multihomed with another PE as well and that PE is the DF for that segment it follows that he should always advertise the route type 3 if he\u0027s single homes and then extending that further the any VPN instance in a PE on the first DF Ethernet segment the I\u0027m it should be advertised whereas on the last DF to non DF transition it should be withdrawn so here we see the initial diagram with the problem of P 1 2 and 3 and P 1 wins the DF the P 2 and P 3 still attracts traffic in the current design with the proposed initial "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:54",
    "text": "solution because they don\u0027t win the DF election they no longer advertise the route type 3 therefore P 5 doesn\u0027t have to send any bomb traffic towards them in this diagram P 4 is single home so he still continues to attract traffic so that there is there are a few caveats with this so on a DF where PE 1 fails there will be bomb drop until and until the next election is done and the route type 3 is flooded - to reach b5 so he knows to start sending again but that\u0027s almost synonymous with the existing behavior because the bomb is based on the on the route type for withdrawing the bees so if a bee went away you have to wait for that to be withdrawn so the convergence delay is the the function of Max of the type 4 and a type 3 propagation extending that a little bit further we would suggest that on the segment\u0027s the the bee do their election and we have the concept of the backup DF and we would say that we\u0027re an operator agrees not to compromise the failover performance with the the bandwidth that he\u0027s attracting then the backup DF should also advertise the route type 3 in addition to the DF so obviously this this the benefits of this increase with scale where there\u0027s more than two peas that are multihomed we\u0027re also proposing that that would improve convergence for known multicast streams so I think the draft mentions today that\u0027s the selective multicast route where would would be sent only once and we would propose that that be sent on the backup DF as well describing that would be the PE should only advertise type 3 for an e VI if and only if one of these conditions hold so that is a single hind Ethernet segment for the e VI and or it is a DF for at least one segment on the e VI or it is backup DF for at least one segment on the e VI we think this doesn\u0027t impact the convergence of the current model because the backup DF continues to receive the bomb traffic advantages to this is that we\u0027re now imposing some additional control of where bomb traffic will go the bandwidth problem is mainly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:54",
    "text": "due to large multicast flows our video flows we think that flow multicast will solve a lot of these problems but there\u0027s no harm in withdrawing as well the solutions applicable for single active and all active multihoming doesn\u0027t require a change to the existing standards it\u0027s easy to detect from remote Pease and we would hope easy to interrupt and the benefit increases with the number of multi-home bees ok any questions I am a bit basically concerned regarding how much bang we get for the buck with respect to this so in the final solution for the vast majority of deployment because the multihoming is dual homing and so if we have dual homing we don\u0027t get any gain correct that\u0027s correct and if we have multihoming if we go back to your slide the figure if you have you know more than one series multi-home for a given broadcast domain which is typically the case you that you don\u0027t have one see I mean the number of series like relative to piece is one or two order of magnitude right so this this figure probably either simplifies my requirements right I\u0027m what I was basically trying to make the point if you have more than one series then the DF election tries to be fair and tries to spread the DF among for the same broadcast domain among different series so you\u0027re gonna end up with all the Pease becoming the F well this is perhaps true for the for the case that you would see here my specific problem that I have today is not quite well described by this diagram my PE topology basically is an n ve endpoint and I have 1 es 1 n ve my attachment circuit is the NVE in each of these ethernet segments MV i\u0027m so nve so so these bees okay facing the c e right this is basically the attachment circuit is a VX LAN so I have one attachment circuit which means that I have one Ethernet segment 1 es I so I would get a nice load balancing here so your C your C is and NV running the excellent know between the C he\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:56",
    "text": "connected to a top-of-rack device which is a Vita it\u0027s not drawn here because we think it still applies to the simple right so ok your peers are n ve running we expand correct and your C is connected to them and how many c is for a given VN i for a given well the the segment is tied to one l TV and i in each case and therefore also only one good there\u0027s a a thern 8 ii is only attached to that but what you don\u0027t see is the image of that downstream on from the tour so there is only one C II connected to that Ethernet segment pair n ve no there may be many Cee so if there are many series that\u0027s my point then for the same Ethernet segment if there are many series then I you\u0027re gonna get the DF election all the your Pease cannot become DF because for a given the HRW algorithm load balances it and factors in the ethernet segment yeah and for Ethernet segment one which is let\u0027s say for C 1 T 1 is gonna be the DF for C 2 which is not in this figure PE 2 is going to become a DF + 4 C 3 PE 3 so all of them are going to be receiving traffic I think what where the confusion comes is the diagram doesn\u0027t represent my problem okay so I can take it online because I had a lot of a struggle seriously to try to understand the problem that what are we trying to solve or what are we trying to optimize so I would love you know - for you to go over it and tell me what silly so we know that the the hashing is done per Ethernet segment but in our V excellent deployment which is downstream of the PE s we we have one Ethernet segment tied to one V and I so whilst me one will still attract traffic for if he is the DF for for the first Ethernet segment we will never have more than one Ethernet segment in an ESR okay all right so we have a one-to-one mapping of Ethernet segment to ESI so if you have one-to-one mapping then you don\u0027t need to do any Mac lookup why not use like a VP level us we have max lookups no I know I\u0027m saying if it is one to one then you don\u0027t you can even simplify the server but but for the tunnel endpoints downstream if the PE there\u0027s many next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:57",
    "text": "stop so many MAC addresses on one segment okay on the other side there are many okay so then in that very specific case I can see you know basically it\u0027s boiling down to you have one Cee you\u0027re saying that you have only one CEP broadcast on me basically because the vni is a broadcast domain and you were saying is one-to-one one segment per broadcast I\u0027m saying one segment ESI yeah one segment pair ESI or VN i know i because internet segment and ESI is the same thing okay so maybe I think you\u0027re still we need to have offline discussion to make sure it is the case and in general case I see the applicability of this very limited in general case for your specific situation I think we can have a offline discussion and if as soon as we have a single homing either as a result of the failure you end up with a single homing or you start with a single homie you\u0027re gonna that P is going to draw traffic for you there is no is basically the DF is always on so all the optimization is out the door as soon as you have it yeah I got a single I understand that okay cetera from Cisco so one thing I want to clarify is the figure here is not really wrong even if you take another C and that C is multi-home to the exact same P is right until now when we are introducing the es into the HRW the curving is going to be same even if you take the 7 4 3 2 the DF is going to be same for different ESS segments yes right yeah so even have a thousand Z so then that should clarify some of the questions that for the baseline I agree with you for seven for 32 it is the same but for the new DF framework is going to be different no no we have introduced idea what they\u0027re in you see we just mentioned that when I when I talked about the yes in the hash I just mentioned that there is a specific case in which if the es did not go into that then that specificity you\u0027re right I mean if we turn it off then it becomes this if we turn off the capability yes why should we turn off the capability if you can do it speaking the might he want to speak no no and this is talking about with respect to a given can you just repeat what has been said come in and even that you have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:03",
    "text": "election algorithms speaking the mic we can\u0027t hear you I\u0027m sorry I\u0027ve see seven four three two we will not ended up with same and P as the DF coz if we have a two different in ESI is in a segment if they are preached or men are different the module is based on a minimum vide and ID so no no but the what we are talking with respect to a single BD the context in here the prerequisite is single BD so with respect to a single BD question is if we have multiple CES for on seven forty two seven four three two currently all CII\u0027s the DF for office for that BD maps with the same P and I\u0027m saying that problem is solved with the DF framework draft well I think what he is talking about a special case where there is one C for that there is not multiple CDs for a given B D there is only one C for that he has explained that work on the other side so it\u0027s Michael Moore it\u0027s like a me explain network motor home to the evpn so it\u0027s similar to one see in this use case I see what are you saying okay let\u0027s move to your questions thanks nokia yeah I also have some doubts about the applicability but okay if you have a strong use case all right my only comment is that this is just based on the advertisement or or with withdrawal of the I met route so it shouldn\u0027t be informational rather than standards track I really discussed it with Satya but to me this is more informational okay I don\u0027t mean from Fabi ice check my I have we haven\u0027t to say that either four years ago also in London we proposed another draft either as a Tamizh our VP working group I think that we try to a coho will the same in our user cases to reduce the so in which draft are you talking about yeah the EPA are i lov bune multicast state other world Huysmans that craft maybe I will send it to the mini list you okay I think that\u0027s we try to cope with the similar usual "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:04",
    "text": "actual reduce the Uli\u0027s usually is the traffic for the Matt Acosta on the other hand our the different is solution we try to advertise the state for the active and inactive because we try to our the solution of hope with the two because of the you know us when said happy to impede handle for the young acti with the tunnel we maybe can set harbour some this is a backup okay so that\u0027s the so later we try to consolidate this possible okay thank you may I well there are some similarity but I think the wires are getting crossed here because we are talking about different things in the proposal that you\u0027re talking about is basically on the ingress side we try to optimize it and not sending it and this was something that if you go back to the version 0 of the EVP and Raph and I\u0027m not talking about I\u0027m talking about the individual draft it was mentioned there and we decided to take it out so there as well he is talking about is different he is talking about doing it on the egress side and not advertise the IMS so there are different you know is for different scenarios and the use case in here again is very specific so we need to validate the use case and if that use case has merit and that\u0027s why ok thank you please be very quick no question one night so yeah we are okay with it being informational if community things like that thank you do you want any and sticker please governor after the meeting if you want one so last presentation such a this is it\u0027s not even related so this is the work that we did with Google some time back and this has to do with the DMZ load-balancing so that draft the DMZ link bandwidth extended community draft that went through several iterations but at some point I saw that it\u0027s kind of expired but most implementations had it and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:11:06",
    "text": "had a requirement in the Google Network to use that so let\u0027s see thanks to a selenium he said that we should revive that and then we use it for our purposes so it\u0027s it is good to refer to a draft which is still active so where is the requirement the requirement was so I\u0027ll go to the picture in a minute but the link bandwidth extended community actually encodes the bandwidth of the egress link and then it is sent in the BGP update to the ibgp peer and consider that the same prefix is reachable from two or more regress ebgp peers on the ibgp side you can do a load balancing based on the link bandwidth community and the link bandwidth community can encode the bandwidth of the link or you can set it by a policy so therefore we say that it is useful in load balancing across interests links we\u0027re the same prefix of the net is advertised into the receiving s so here you have a simple topology in which c1 is advertising the same part let\u0027s say - p1 and p2 and the p1 and p2 they can encode the value of the bandwidth in the link bandwidth extended community and send it to p3 so when p3 sends the traffic it can load balanced in the ratio of 1 is to 2 now this extended community is optional non-transitive so it doesn\u0027t go across SS and it\u0027s not set when the next of it set the self also all that parts that that are associated with the link bandwidth community if all those parts are considered as multipaths then the better all of them should have it okay and then this is taken by account by the by the foot or like the forwarding and it does the load balancing there so this is a simplest simple representation that I\u0027ve shown in which there is an address sitting under the tasks and that address is reachable by that IP address is reachable by all of the stores so these parts there in one is and they are connected to spines which is in other ace and then this is an ally bgp network so you can see that r1 and talk to will generate the link bandwidth the extended community with value 100 and 200 so this is I forget but I think it is in bytes in the as it in the in the encoding and then the spine can accumulate that and it sends it to the power 5 similarly from tour 3 and tour to the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:14:07",
    "text": "advertisement like the advertisement for the same prefix is sent and the link bandwidth is encoded and then the spine too can do the aggregation and send to s 300 now today there is so there is no way to accumulate this link bandwidth and sent it I mean this is a standard problem with vgp extended like attributes right in general that we it\u0027s maybe I shouldn\u0027t digress there but so there is no way to accumulate this and this is an optional non-transitive so the semantics is not completely in line because now we want to advertise it across the ebgp boundary but it\u0027s not really the same attribute that is being sent we are like regenerating it so so we need some new config knobs for this kind of I mean I call it Draft violation but it\u0027s kind of immediate and so existing customers can continue to deploy the link aggregation or whatever is in base implementations and they do not need these knobs so as an example we have to we had some new I am just giving this example as Cisco IOS XR as a vendor that there were two knobs that were implemented for this to do the accumulation and send it on to whichever ebgp neighbor your advertising and on the receiving side also you had this knob to allow the community to be accepted the default is it will drop it so there is some other thing that one needs to take care like the so this has to be if you see from the point of view of the destination the entire graph has to look like a directed acyclic tree meaning the contribution of the community by whatever means should not be factored more than once I have explained in the draft I think yeah so that\u0027s pretty much it I just answer on your hyperox I don\u0027t think you need to create knobs you need to update the draft and the draft was presented either last ITF one before and I think we brought up the fact that the attribute is non transitive it needs to be changed so let\u0027s change it take it to IDR and be done with it the teams healing that got updated revised I mean that got revived just now that doesn\u0027t talk about cumulative link bandwidth at all it does and in the rocks in IDR anyway here this is okay there is another draft I\u0027m talking about Rex and brother-sister so what Jeff is talking about Jeff alles is that the link bandwidth draft that this usually started from you guys revived that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:17:09",
    "text": "good what are you saying is that that\u0027s already there it\u0027s permissible for non-transitive extended communities for you just to simply rewritten a tit you\u0027re basically making it look like a transitive it\u0027s not really the interesting caveat here and this is something that juniper is going to have to respond to anyway since the draft bubbled back up after I think seven eight years of being dormant was the fact that we deploy transitive versions of this community and we don\u0027t use the non-transitive version well you made it yeah so yeah and unfortunately there leads us with code that\u0027s not compatible and to interrupt at the moment and this was something we\u0027re going to actually approach the author\u0027s note for this additionally on top of all that we implement this feature right here already this is part of an upcoming release the incubate the accumulation link bandwidth okay so one of the one of the can we do have a strong caveat to offer here we didn\u0027t actually bother with a draft simply because you know from our perspective as a local router behavior but the caveat that we would offer is that link bandwidth is similar to a lot of you know what I like to call magic communities this group has a tendency to spit out where you expect exactly one of them if you think about how communities typically operate you compare them is opaque eight byte values think about what happens when you have more than one link bandwidth community inside of your box what does it actually do so in in as part of doing this the guidance to the developers were now we should use one of them and make sure that we only ever send one along so so the point I take from you is not to like do away with the knobs and make the link bandwidth up transitive that should solve it right so yes so there is how how will be distinguished between is the classic problem right with the attribute like I receive an attribute I modify it and send it now I have no way of knowing whether it actually came with that value are I modified it sure you know it\u0027s like if it\u0027s in the case of the non-transitive version if you don\u0027t touch it you follow the rules of Aria Ridge ination ya parts of the internal code detail right but if you touch it then the receiving guy he won\u0027t know it will changed it how will you know that would you not know it thank you so I think the Bellagio named ELISA Jesse so the problem they\u0027re trying to it is very you know is incremental to what it was before through their link bandwidth so and it\u0027s a small increment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:20:09",
    "text": "and the small increment is the middle hub that gets these link bandwidth through this previous one add them up together and for the transitive case add them up together and send it send it up and that is not mentioned in the previous graph and we had we had two choices whether added to the add a paragraph to the or added you know section to the previous draft or I have a new one but because there were different authors this one was the easier road to move forward there\u0027s nothing stopping you from the core link bandwidth draft with it being non-transitive from functionally treating it as a religion ation which effectively makes it look like transitive but it\u0027s no different than if no you and I speak ebgp and I send you one of these communities the request from non-transitive is that as part of receiving it you do not propagate it to your other ones very similar to be GPT no export well so that\u0027s the behavior we expect out of non-transitive extent communities when you inject it at ebgp point so in terms of that piece of procedure for non-transitive in your draft I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything new needed I think it\u0027s covered I think for a part of your case about wanting transitive behavior like said we we already implemented it in juniper and we have to approach the authors well King that updated in the draft anyway so there will be a transitive and non-transitive version of this link bandwidth and the accumulation behavior it\u0027s I think a reasonable thing the document and we\u0027re happy to joined with you on the draft since we are implementing that already okay all right thanks we already have an implementation thank you thank you so this is the end of a session we have a lot of documents in our backlog for working oblast core and working on production we will try to prioritize vemma and possibly precede them as soon as we can so see you in Montreal and if you have the other blue sheets could you bring them as well front please final outcome "
  }
]