[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:01",
    "text": "certain amounts of water such as all Yeah. But it's all nice and sweet and and sticky. Yeah. Yeah. as long as my tech can work. Okay. Alright. Okay. Okay? Okay? I think. This is open on the phone. Hi, everybody. Jurgen Plaza A. This San Francisco, and you are attending the IoT working group of the IETF 117. I recommend everybody takes a seat or sees us private discussions for the moment because we are starting the session high. So I'm Hank. I'm like, dear, court sharers. Alexey? I And I'm we have some well known rules, they are known as the Notwell. I assume that most of you already account for them. If not, They are very well under meeting material and Elevovaf interesting roots here. Some of them are code of conduct, which basically means be nice to each other. So treat others as you would like to be treated that sometimes it's not very obvious. We have technical problems here. and if there are individual problems with people Please try to resolve them or there's an Albert's team. When you look at the data tracker, you will find several icons over there. There's one that is a camera. That's the full meeting, and there's another one That's the light, same meeting. When you are in the room, you can raise your hand. I placed the blue sheet at the front mic So when you can't scan this, I QR code over there because it's too far away. something and you want to go to a mic. The front mic has the Lucy that is just that QR code now. and then you register for being an attendee, this working group meeting, and that helps the IETF tool make better room and schedule decisions, that would be really nice."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "This meeting is recorded, by the way. I just skipped this. So that's basic guides effectively if you find any issues with what I've just said. There's an interesting link here at the bottom. where you can report issues. That actually really helps the data tracker does not always work as intended. So if you find something that you find irritating or could be an improvement. Please go there. And now comes the time when we ask for note takers, There's a link here. That's the notes. I will could you paste the notes link on the chat maybe? And we need at least one individual in the room that has the capability and the attention span to create some. Sorry. No. It's it. But to Yeah. And we we this is a hard blocker for the meeting. We have to select a minute taker that does notes Are volunteers for this role? mean, the basic product is that is, like, remembering or understanding the name of I person presenting or asking a question than writing down decisions if there's something controversial that also is interesting. So I'm on its contributes talking because we need a notetaker, please. Someone in the room? again, this is hard backlog of a process. So I would be really happy if that would be what I'm here coming up and telling us, yes. I can do notes. That is not a big issue. and you wouldn't believe how persistent I am with this. So in case there's some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "I'm not using the right words. We can't continue without the notetaker. And so there's the need for that. And you and Yeah. You're really sacrificing yourself. Wow. Okay. Our AD takes up your work. Baby? Thank you, Warren. So in any case, if you find something in the notes, you can follow the notes. It's an of CodyMD hedgehog. Sorry. And So you can add to the notes. So there's an there's no limit for people who are joining the the the minute and and and adding something through that. okay, having done across that threshold, We have agenda for today, which is basically I'm talking here to you maybe a little bit longer than I have thought. For 5 minutes, then we will I have Brandon as our first presenter. As you can see, that we have a relatively lofty agenda. We would talk about 2 the items, and then about the device schema extensions to the schemer model, which I think and I file they have to bring here. And a final item with Vibuski, subset topic presented and then any other business, which basically means, oh, Mike. So is there any agenda bashing that the room or the remote attendees want to have, and I'm looking at the chat right now. That does not seem to be the case. So I woulda nifty this switch to this the right one? Is for them No. You didn't I didn't do the right thing. Oh,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "No. this No. No. No. Yeah. do this. landscape. Nope. see I can learn things. And there we go. Can you hear me okay? Yes, Brandon. You're online, and we can hear you in the room. Alright. Great. Next slide, please. So I'm gonna talk a little bit about why where doing this IoT security survey draft. Suppose that you're working for a company that make some kind of IoT device. medical devices maybe that didn't used to be IoT, but now they have to be. scata systems, which probably shouldn't be IoT, but are industrial robots, same deal. know, and there's many, many more of these kinds of things. and they need to be connected to the Internet. Well, Suppose them that your latest client tells you that they need their devices, anything that they buy, anything that they commission you to build for them. I'm they need to adhere to one of the security recommendations. documents that has been produced by various other standards organizations. So, you know, like the Alyssa baseline security requirements or sorry, recommendations for IoT systems for critical infrastructure or missed 8259a. and there's many more. Well, now what? Next slide, please. Well, the requirement documents don't actually tell you how to implement them. They don't tell you where to look, for standards that would help you. They don't tell you where to find libraries that would help you. They don't tell you anything other than what you need to do. they don't tell you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "anything about where to find help, where to find the right kind of tools to do your job. So that's gonna be a problem. The IETF also doesn't today have a landing pad document, which tells you, you know, if you're trying to build a secure IoT device, These are the kinds of things you need to look at. And and these are the kinds of protocols we have that can help you. We don't have that today. The discovery process if you want to know what you need in order to get Your IoT device built and deployed, Your probably going to end up just picking an IoT operating system. and hoping for the best. So going, yeah, it should probably handle all these. but that's inevitably going to result. in audits. Security audits telling you that you're missing something and it goes on and on, and you'll end up blowing your budget and going past your deadline. So What can we do? Next slide, please. that's where this comes in. Well, So the IoT security survey document. Matt security requirements from existing standards or recommendation documents. to IETF And Related Technologies. I I say IETF and related, because there are certain technologies that we don't and can't cover in the IETF, because they operate outside our purview but are critical to how we anchor our security. And as such, they do need a little pointer in this document. So this provides implementers with starting place for their IoT security. And It serves 3 distinct purposes. The first is it directs implementors towards standards based solutions to security requirements."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "And if we don't do that, then implementors are going to roll this stuff on their own because they know they need it. So if they don't know where to find a standard or can't find a standard, that does what they need They'll just do it themselves, and we'll end up with an interoperability mess. The second thing, second purpose is it helps make implementers aware of the security problems that they might encounter when deploying IoT devices that they may not have considered. know, not every implementor is going to think about how to secure the private data. that their device collects and processes. Yeah. They may not consider whether they need to trusted execution environments, etcetera, etcetera. So that helps them to discover these possibilities and these security problems that they may not be considering. And then 3rd, at it ends up mapping security requirements between different requirement documents. I promise I did not mean to do that. That was an accident, but the structure of the document exposes it. So there you go. Next slide, please. Alright, so the current status is that we've got 2 sets of security requirements that we've already covered. I I say wheat, I. I need another author. Please. So first, we've covered the Alyssa baseline security recommendations for IoT. And second, the NISTIoT cybersecurity capability core baseline. So Those are the only 2 that are in there. The working group in the last meeting at ietf 116, specifically asked not to split this document into one mapping document purr standard. Now what that means is that this is going to grow. A lot. until we decide that there are enough standards in it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "And because of that We need co well, I need coauthors because I don't want to be mapping every single security requirements document there to IETF Technologies. We also need reviewers and I suspect the next step here is to add Etsy cybersecurity for consumer Internet of Things Baseline requirements. draft. That's where we are today. Next slide, please. there are some questions. probably covered, like, why isn't my favorite set of requirements covered? Well, the answer to that is clear. It's because you're not a co author. yet. Join me Then the other question I have is what does this draft need for working group last call? And that's it. That is what I have. And I guess the question here is Who wants to join me? And what have I got wrong? Yeah. Awesome. Just just yeah. Robert? Bauma switch. I'm doing a much simpler document on my own. dealing with how to make X 509 certificates and a a little test PKI. and I'm doing it all on my own. and learn how hard it is to work with open SSL. The reason I'm getting up here is that adopting like this as as the assist should never ever, ever become an RFC. This is using the Internet draft repository for a living a we Findable document on recommendations. It is in my highly biased opinion the best way for doing such a thing. GitHub is the wrong place to think about doing this for a week"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "putting it in an Internet trap as you have done, and I applaud you on this. that is the place for re keeping these living recommendations, And at some point, you're gonna hopefully, Brandon, hand it over. that somebody else has continued to run with it. And, hopefully, this is something that 5 plus years from now they'll still be there. Because 5 plus years from now, the people who have built these protocols are busy doing something else and the new group of people trying to implement something, say, Am I supposed to do? So this is I will take a look at it, see if there's anything that that I may be able to add to it. but it is I I vote in favor of this being being being obviously, the workgroup document and always being a draft. Fair enough. Fair enough. I think in one of the previous meetings, I mentioned that I could see this being some kind of a living document I'm not sure exactly what the protocol is for that in the IETF. A a perpetual draft, I I understand why that's appealing, but at the same time, it doesn't really give the the air of authority that you might want in something like this. Yeah. That's a bit of a problem. But Roman Longo said that version numbers are free. So you want to update it. You go ahead and update it and put a new version number. Oh, thank you. I was about to ask our responsible, AD, to comment If he has an opinion, I've got an opinion. I don't know if it's a good one. Warren, Kamari, So we do keep talking about the concept of sort of living documents which would basically be sort of like an RFC, but much easier to update."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "Right. The problem with an RFC is you publish it, and then it's such a fact to ever update you'd never touch a neighbor again. So this might be something that fits well in the living documents type thing where you publish sort of point revisions every now and then, like, complex semantic version type ideas. but but but but but but but that's a discussion that's been going on for many years and hasn't got anywhere. But now I think let's work on it as a draft. and know, we'll cross that bridge when we get to it if we get to it. but thanks for doing the work. and who's gonna be a coworker? someone volunteer. I just wanna look at it. we might have to rank it. fine. So as a as a chair, I can say that I this IT meeting met quite a few people coming from other oh, sorry. An idiot. I just saw you I'm doing the line. I'm basically skipping you. Sorry. Yeah. and this has this has a new surge of of of representatives from other SDOs can be leveraged. And as a chair, I can I can float this and I think it's a responsibility of others to maybe do the same. But I I actually would be able maybe to to find 1 or 2 other co offers when when we when we start to float this. Because as a landing point, as you say, you need experts from others baseline security document owners or at least interest groups and that that use them and I think it's a shared responsibility to to help you there. And and that's something I think Jess can you first. And now, Elliott, sorry, for phasing this campaign in the line. Yeah. Yeah. Hi, everybody."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "I don't know about coauthor, but I'm happy to try and be a contributor to the document in terms of, you know, maybe helping a little bit here or a little bit there. I'm not sure if I'm quite qualified to be a co author, but I find Brendan's writings to be interesting, fun, and accurate. So to to to be able to participate, there would be an honor. That'd be great. Thank you, Elliot. we'll be Mhmm. k. Thank you, Brandon. And, Sean, take it away. you know, some there. Press the wrong button. guess you can hear me. So this is about the comparison of COAP security protocol documents, which is now in version 0 2. The foot 2 carriers nothing to do with draft. at all. next slide. So the version we discussed at the last data was 00. quite a lot of discussion in I talked before the last I theft during I theft and after I theft, and this was then up included in 01and0 2. So I think, addressed all the issues and comments raised at that point added some references to the list and GitHub There was quite a lot of discussion about underlying dock. commence the the 0 2 version makes it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "clearer, clearer that that the focus is on the security protocols and not on underlying layers. Then there's a new section discussing some things about underlying layers. The my recognition body group, kind of agreement was that we don't want to spend too much time on the underlying name, but we need some discussions. So people understand that underlying layers can affect this and how to look for more information. changed conclusion to summary, corrected the group Oscar number as pointed out by Marco. Then a new section on Eddock over Kuap and Oscar. This is the subsection to the underlying layers and All these the material there was provided by Marco. Thanks Marco. updated with CTLS 08 and updated tables to make it clear that it is the 08 version. My feeling is that CTLS is now a bit more stable with respect to this draft. I haven't heard a final decision from the the CTLS people, but it seems like they will not do we need optimization for p 256 and instead focus on x2-5519 and EDDSA, and that means that there's no new changes to the current draft. And any future changes would affect the numbers much, much less like, a few bytes instead of 60, 70 bytes. And then there are some editorial changes. Next slide,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Normally, I've got them early. IUT review by Russ. Thanks for that, Russ. And Russ has raise some issues and also have very good suggestion for how to fix them. two major issues. The first is about terminology the different protocols use different terminology. And the other is about that the protocols are quite friendly key exchange and like the TLS handshake and the TLS record layer. And and Russ discussed, we should have this year should be a discussion of the comparison methodology. Makes a lot of sense. Should probably also be more terminology section. Then the other major thing is about the security consideration, which is currently empty. Russody has to at least refer to the security considerations in the secret protocols. This also makes a lot of sense. The next two sections of are about the underlying. Layers And Yeah. He discusses whether this is needed or not if it's needed, he just has that. should say which particles are used with which underlying layers. Does that make sense? and then he points out that 2.1 is quite detailed and asked why that is more detailed than the rest that can be discussed. But I think one the reason I see is that the discussion here is still on the It these underlying layers affect the coop layer itself."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:04",
    "text": "Other things are purely in the underlying. layers. So there's still discuss this coup up and the security protocols. then section 3 references to all algorithms. This is the key exchange. I think maybe that's relevant for section 4 also. Makes a lot of sense. And then there is indeed about 31 about key certificate. identifiers, I haven't looked into how to solve this, but I think All all of these makes a lot of sense high level. nothing. My plan is to fix that address these in 3. quite soon. Next slide. So next step address the comments from last submit 0 3. And with that, all the issues and comments have been addressed. I think we orders don't have any concrete plants. Things we want or think should be done before we move to IT ops. Our last comments in Elvik was that thought we're ready for working group last call. I think this document needs more reviews people that read the whole document and comment, whether that's before a working group, plus caller. during a working group, let's call this up for the group and the chairs to decide. But I think We need more reviews and see if there is something more missing. That's it. John, question for you. So in regards to CTLS, Do we need to wait until CTLS'"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "published, or is this going to be just snapshot in time or, like, Just trying to figure out whether we do, like, last call and part of the doc payment or Yeah. Yeah. Questions. That's a good question. I don't have a answer to. I think both options are viable either we push it now. I think I I think CTLS has if any changes, I think it's small changes if you but I'm bytes. So I think we could publish it or, like, now, or we could wait for CTLS. We decided it's not published until that's published. But I don't know how long CTLS is probably the longest waiting time of the drops that are referenced. So Jess published a check with Is it TELUS working group? So, yeah, the TLS working group for CTLS? Yep. Okay. So we'll we'll probably need to check with chairs and and just get an indication of And then we can come back and discuss in the working group. more to them. More to Okay? Mhmm. Right. Thank you. k? Yeah. This is Henka Sicha. you said we will address the issues of of Rust, if there's anything you need. Of course, the list is there for you to add. So if you encounter any block cost on that next CTS, which we would take on just say so. k. Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "everybody. Okay. This draft is not meant as a working group gap for IoT ops, but rather is about to be adopted by the SKIM working group. And the reason I'm here is because the IoT ops group asked me to come back here and talk about the any updates to this draft. And so Next slide, please. This is sort of a cool deck. I actually use the same deck in in in SCIM, but I'm gonna take more time here because they actually you know, they're up to speed on what's going on with. So what's the goal? goal is to abstract out the different onboarding mechanisms and offer provisioning interface to well, all of them. And so one you know, basically, skim if you recall is a user provisioning mechanism. We're going to add functionality to do device provisioning. We're gonna reuse the Chorus scheme, or we'll reuse the group scheme as well. which is also part of the course also part of the core. and So there's a lot of reuse going on. Next slide, please. so one big change is typically, enterprises use SCIM to call out to their providers. like, for instance, The enterprise might use Kim to call to their payroll processor to say, hey, I've got a new user or hey, I've deleted a new user. or they might do so do that with Webex or with Microsoft or whoever. to provision accounts, very classically used in salesforce.com. They were a major driver of this technology. In this case, communication actually reverses. and partners who are providing IoT devices into an enterprise environment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "will call into SCIM will call into enterprise who will act as these skim service provider and say, okay. Here's a new device that's coming at you. and here are some of its parameters. Other pop other components of this mechanism will include an AL g, we're gonna talk about that more in Prague. and this will link to this will link to that. So the idea again is to cover multiple technologies including BLE, and Zigbee as well Wi Fi and wired. maybe some thread in there, maybe other things depending on what other people wanna do. We've had some interest in FDO. So maybe we'll do some stuff with Fido Device onboarding. as well. And the idea is just to be to say, okay. Here's your gateway. Just point to a particular set of functions for control. for the device and then use that within your infrastructure. Next slide, please. So the scheme is that are in use. You've got core device schema. This the the core device scheme has a very little information, like, display name, an admin state, and an optional Mudd URL. And the money roll could pass additional information about particular device. And then you extend and extend and extend. And we include a bunch of extensions to start off with So the the initial extensions include ble, Wi Fi Alliance, EasyConnect, zigbee Zigbee as the type of devices. As I mentioned, there is a a little bit of interest in FDO. We might do some thing there. and there's a little bit of interest in Fred. slash matter. We might do something there. We can figure out how to do that. Now for non IP devices, this this basically provisioning a device also may entail provisioning an application layer gateway."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "so for that, we've also added an endpoint application And authorization mechanisms so that we know which applications are allowed to actually communicate. to that application layer gateway. Next slide, please. Okay. So we've done a a few updates. since we last spoke, We've really done a lot of work on the endpoint application schema. We need to do a lot more work on the endpoint location schema, But mostly this involved changes where know, the initial draft had, like, a raw public key or something like that, and it's to identify the you know, put applications. Well, that's sort of bad. And so we've cleaned up some of that, we have also addressed a couple of other issues in the draft, that involved the the BLE scheme between whether devices bond or they don't bond. We'll have some more work to do there, I'm sure. the we we noticed a couple of issues. one of which is the primary author on this is not is a non native speaker, and there's some language that needs to be a little clear, he did a really good job considering that. I mean, it's actually did an amazing job. But we've asked a couple of people said, can you be a little clear in the introduction? the we've we've blown the regex in the for the MAC addresses in a couple of places that it's inconsistent. in one cases, we're we're we're allowing a MAC address to have an extra character, which seems a little bit well, long, long we're gonna fix that. The draft actually has normative narrative text is required by the SCIM poor documents. also included an open API model. in there as well in the appendix so people can just suck in the open model, and just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "test to their heart's content, and I'll come back to that testing and playing part in a little bit. There are some formatting issues with Jason the with with Jason examples. Anytime you have JSON examples and a draft or an RFC, you just wanna beat your head against the wall. I know I done it. So, I mean, how many people in the room have had to implement a folding function for j in their work, hands up, Okay. Just me. Warren. See, I saw you there, Warren. Okay. we had and and I didn't quite get it. Right? Maybe I'll use your code, Warren, if you wanna. And then we actually wanna hack the code. So We we're we're intending to release some LSS was hoping to have it by now, but it's probably just a couple of weeks away. we were we were in a doc review, and then I had the bad sense to go on vacation. So that's completing, and we're gonna get some code out there for people to play with, and then we wanna hack it all around and and frog We're trying to arrange for that. So as I mentioned, the working group adoption call just closed in in SCIM, We're expecting at least one more comment. and that's really it. And I see, Hannes, you have a question or a comment. Hi, Elliot. I have a question about the architecture slide you showed. I'm Not quite sure I understand how you want to use sort of the schema that protocol So could you maybe sort of explain it based, let's say, on FDO because I'm more familiar with that. How would that work? Yeah. You pick the one that we haven't done yet. So so I'll I'll give it a whirl. How about that? So imagine that green box on the bottom saying FBO. And so in FTO terms, you have an owner process."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "which allows for ownership transfer and it it would have access to the FTO voucher for the device. And so the idea would be that the provisioning function at that point for FDO would be to simply by the voucher, the gateway function there is that that you see you could you could imagine all those green boxes being all one if you want. But the gateway would say, oh, this is FTO. Let me send this off to the FTO. owner with with a particular voucher so that the device bootstraps, the owner process will already have the voucher. Does that help what what And I'm I'm sort of doing that on the fly. Okay? because we haven't actually done that code. Maybe you wanna hack that with us in in in Yeah. -- in Prague. An FTO, for example, would have d rendezvous server, so obvious the you may not want to connected to the vulnerable server. So and the other one is sort of the service where you literally sort of, like, kind of vice management service where you connect to and you would connect to that you would provide you would push the voucher to that sort of Device Management Service, Yeah. That's sort of the anything It's basically It's a provisioning mechanism for the back end infrastructure. Exactly. Exactly. Okay. You have it in 1. In fact, a design consideration for us this. was specifically that we didn't wanna screw around with the left side of this picture. Like, we don't wanna we don't wanna change the devices themselves. This just builds on what everybody else did. We already have enough onboarding business. We don't need more. I don't know. Maybe we need more. But but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "We can accommodate that if we need to. The idea was I didn't wanna write another onboarding mechanism. I just wanted maybe be be able to provision the ones there. They're there. Okay. I think I understand now. Cool. Thanks. Okay? Sorry. I couldn't be there in person to present. by the way. I hope you guys are having a great time in Santa in San Francisco. Any other questions, comments? That's it. Thank you, Elliott. Let's change the Share, And with that, I'm gonna excuse myself, have a very Good afternoon. Yeah. 1 AM, a few year. Hello? Hello? Hello? Everyone, Yeah. We can hear you, but your your volume is pretty low if you can either move your mic, move closer to your mouth, or increase your increase your mic volume, okay. This is very better. Thank you. Yeah. This Yeah. Wonderful. Thank you. Okay. Hello, everyone. I will introduce Bruskey, CLE certificator is enrollment protocol impress key. net asset page, Please. Yeah. IoT devices Mhmm. have been widely used in various scenarios such as the smart cities and the smart healthcare take a smarter medical care in the hospital as an example, in this scenario, IoT device accesses the hospital's network through the gateway."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "authentication center is responsible for is showing credentials to the LTE device and the gateway yes, they can use the credential to authenticate each other. in this scenario, the gateway cares about whether the LTE device is need jigimat. rather than who is the IoT device. Therefore, e for x 0.509 certificates are used in the authentication, the identity information in the certificates is redundant The authentication mechanism for Alt devices should be nitweight and scalable. as Audi devices are commonly resource constrained and have a huge number. Next up page, please. There are many 3 existing OS Education mechanisms based on SA metric. Accurate photography, X. 509 certificate row public key and identity based create photography, A certificate is a common account 10th content in a certificate chat certificate chair has a 3 certificates at the nest and entity Certificate sales certificate and rule the certificate unknown certificate chain needs to massive warnings of transmitted the data and a nonwary thing case time Alright. Say 509 certificate has a small size"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "of a certificate but still relies on the certificate chair. thus certificate based authentication is not tonight with the low perpendicular key, next sustainability because the PRS public key master be obtained via an out of band method previously. In IBC, the device is private key is generated by an authenticated center. This method that is not secure However, IVC is an elevator and a scalar but but The identity is Also, the company go key in IVC. and there is no need to make out of band up configurations. Yeah. Next page, please. certificate then is create Tography is worse propose the 2 you with the key escrow limitation in IVC the user upturns, the 4 Private keypad combining the partial probability key with a secret value. the partial parameter key is generated by Trusted the 3rd party k. inherited from IBC, certificate is courage photography is also lightweight and scalable. the users, the public key, derives from the user's identity. in this draft Next the page, please. Browski is an excellent Automated the post strap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "protocol. There are 5 phases in the bootstrapping process of the pledged This chapter focuses on the enrollment phase and the phase after enrollment, Or existing enrollment protocols use RCA to issue no cost certificates, to the pledges After enrollment, the pledge Youthis, Yutis, Yutis, Yutis, the local certificate to authenticate each other Next step, page, please, Press key CR, it is a nice way to enrollment the protocol for constrained IoT devices, publicly based credential replaces the the certificate SA replaces the CA to issue the create credentials. Mutual authentication protocol is proposed to shows the usage of the credential in the authentication after enrollment Nelson, Next up page, please. And compared with a certificate of authentication, certificate of any authentication improves most 50% of consultational capability and about 80% of our transmission and capability. Next the page, please. The only change in architecture is that the CA is replace the file The ASIC It is assumed that the AC and the register authenticate each other. the next page, paste. is the initial phase of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "enrollment protocol, the rest assess the Our Dell ID offers the pledge on the analyst in the AC. Then the pledge requests the public key and the credential from the AC sequence. The next page, please. In the We also authentication protocol, the kinda under the server, make the correct dental exchange under the proof of position exchange in sequence. Alright. The next up page. Please. That's all. Thank you. Any question. Yeah. The 2 hands up already, Hannes' first. Yeah. The the first one was about the first slide, which was sort of the problem statement saying this one. the gateway kiosk about whether the IoT device is legitimate rather than who the device is. And I was wondering how the solution that was presented later ensures that there's this the legitimate check somehow done. I don't understand, like, how do you determine that? Yeah. That's a good question. and the LG devices is will will be authenticated pies I'm on both key by using the virtual and the initial A certificate in the says is after after After the authenticated by the pro's key."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "successfully. we will step into the enrollment Uh-huh. protocol. And another is based on the previous authentication in the Okay. So it's actually you actually don't sounded like here you are It You are trying to replace a solution that is based on who the device is with something that is based on the legitimacy but in fact, you are actually not changing that at all. You keep what was they are impressed key to begin with But what you do is you chain if I'm correct You want to change the entire brisket protocol. because Briski is based on on TLS But your comparison You don't or in the slides, it didn't seem like you're using TLS again. Are you still using TLS? Yeah. we we just changed the the enrollment protocol please the the next Paige, Right. But so, like, you made this compare and where TLS is shown as really bad, and then the new solution is much better, but you are still using TLS. So how is that possible then? 2nd. the the the So No. We we we just said changes the the enrollment protocol and a and a e either in in the in the former steps of the brush key, For example, there is a TRS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "collection between the patch and the the rest of the we we do not changes this After the after the enrollment, The the the the players use the credential. to authenticate each other. originally, they use this certificate to this this what we changed? So do okay. And so in in risky enrollment, you you use if I recall it correctly, like, a CSR, PCS 10 CSR, and then you get I've response like, the certificate back, the X Five Four Nine certificate, is is your proposal to use a regular CSR Maybe beef extensions, For the identity based crypto, Like, I don't understand what the what the new functionality is Where where's the new functionality? Do you replace that certificate request and the response to it Hey. medical was typing something in the in the chat. So Michael, if you want to answer or help answer. The answer, Hannes is yes. do the whole Bruskey flow with the ID with TLS and for and a voucher, after which you get a authenticated EST connection on which they're gonna do a different enrollment protocol. I don't know if it's a variation of a CSR exactly, but there's some details in the document that I didn't understand. why it's not, ACST or COTS, I'd asked yesterday, and I don't know the answer. Okay. that's Okay. That that really helps. But I think if that's the case, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "performance comparison and these sort of conversions here that are shown on these slides are incorrect because you are still using relying to some extent on X Five Four Nine. So the comparison is after your your provisioned, now you want to talk from device to device And so now you're going across the you know, doing some protocol, and now you're gonna basically use some kind of raw public key with some kind of a a authenticity token, which if it sounds like, oh, off, it is a bit, I think, Sorry. If it sounds like ace, it is a lot. but it's not the same. And so then you're doing that. So imagine you're keying whatever. I don't know what protocol you're keying your security from device device using something else not a certificate and maybe is not TLS, but maybe it's. Maybe TLS would drop a key plus something else. I don't know. it's a comparison is against, like, a very configuration of DLS 1.3, biff with a certificate. With a certificate. With a certificate. With a certificate. Yeah. Yeah. Against some unknown product. on okay. Yeah. I I agree. So would say keep it a bit more high level and at this point just to understand what is proposing. Barma Bob Moskowitz. Over the past 20 years, I've seen IBE/ibc being put forward as a way to fix some problems without ever addressing some of the basic security issues, behind I IBC. There's some statements you make here on your first slide. about the scalability, I've never seen IBC Scale reasonably well. a safe way."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "you very interested in looking at your security considerations? because if you go back to the nist report on IVC from 20 years ago, this was one of the biggest issues in terms of the risk of this, in terms of the the the this the the issuing the the central store is a major security risk In terms of if it's attacked, the whole system falls apart. seriously falls apart. So I'm ready to see how your security considerations address that and what we're and and and what alternative you have to that. As far as the lightweight issue with X Five Zero Nine, and IOTs this We are addressing this separately. list now has a lightweight cipher, asked Khan, for our AAD and for hash. So I'm visiting our digester signing, using this new lightweight hash, we'll make a major improvement in what we're have to do terms of coal base, get the shot, totally out there, do everything in Ascon, that war, vastly change and open things up in the ILT framework. maybe not see everything done to the end of the year, but nonetheless, even this will take a while to do. I'm very leery of any IBC I will have we all will have to look at it very carefully and have to have some very serious serious review of it. because It has historically been pushed aside, for other solutions because of his underlying architectural model. And so I've put forth my particular view I have not spent a lot of time the past 10 years looking at it. I've had other things to do. there may have been advancements in it in the last 10 years. I don't know. And that's my view of it. If you want, I'll take a look at this document. and and put my view. But there are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "people who have worked on IBC more recently than me and can make a much better security assessment. on this proposal and how it fits in. And I definitely wonder it's scalability, This may be good on a small scale use environment inside a home or something like that. But if for some large global sensor environment, or I'll be scared to database. Mhmm. Yeah. I yeah. As I show in the In this page, I say the IPC is not call for security. And I say the gigable, that is to say there is no need to make out of band configuration, this is what I mean is the scapability, yay, IBC. And our traffic is not based on RBC is based on the and and a certificate in this Great. Talk toffee. in the next page s in the page 4, I I I think a is we we are based on the Yes. Certificately is how how how Great. Great. Great. photography, Mhmm. We we are not based on the IBC. And the security of our scheme. We will we will open Well, we will go to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "working group, CFRG to promote our Admirall algorithm Ian, Yeah. Yeah. This draft And we already have some proof security proof for our protocol Alright. Yeah. Mhmm. I was very I I guess we'll have to spend some time looking at it. the initial TLS step in IBC is your out of band step. So we say I it has no auto band. and go back to a vest set proposal and other things back who made a challenge around this. I I I I argue that it that that that we always have an out of band step. if one form or another, and we're kind of bit playing with words on that. Yeah. To pile on to that what Bob said, I I completely agree. I think this slide is a little misleading. It sort of, like, favors or balances d Different mechanisms unevenly, Because in the IDC case, it's like a caberose type of mechanism. And, of course, you have to in order to use the KDC, you have to breakfast or something otherwise the KDC would hand out credentials to anyone. which would be a little bit weird compared to the other mechanisms I think so I think this has to be framed in a different in a different more mutual way I understand that you have a preference for the identity based crypto here in the solution. But I think even in that case, you need to sort of treat the different technique fairly. It I think it's fine to propose it. As Bob, I have seen it coming being proposed numerous times, and it has these limitations and that's why it hasn't found acceptance. That's why you don't find it in hardware for acceleration, so all sorts of problems that you have to overcome."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "Yeah. Okay. Any other comments or questions? If that's not the case, then thank you for your presentation, and Yeah. Please take into account the in room comments, and Try to dust them. Also, this was our final presentation for today So Warren runs to the mic. of course, the budget. -- and and it's know, ask comment should please look at the minutes that I took because they're fairly crappy and they're definitely gonna need some editing. there are many, like, inaudible and random bits that I put in there. So If you made a comment or spoke, please make sure that I got some sort of vague Yeah. Big thing that looks kinda like what she said. to to operationalize, but what Warren just said if you set something, check it in the minutes. actually match the what you said. Yeah. And and yeah. And if it doesn't match and you still like a better take Warren's version, so that's okay. Okay. Thank you, everybody. We can give you back 1 half hour of your life. And thank you for attending to you all next 118 in Prague. And, yeah, we will I guess, Hunt Core first, I think, I think. we we will use a net, an IoT net, probably. Where can I subscribe to the feed It will be an unsupported item feed. that sounds exactly on brand."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yes. I sent it to you. Yeah."
  }
]
