[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hi there folks I think for those not watching the chat um I think we're going to start at five past or so if you want to grab a quick drink uh go grab it now can you hear me foreign yes okay I have to fight some audio issues okay hey John Cedric Bob Martin dick good to see you Neil Ori hey Ray and hi Steve"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "hey folks happy Monday yeah it's a happy Monday hello [Music] good I think we could get started now so the so the as I mentioned that the the meeting uh the skit meeting last week um I thought it would be a good idea to have a call today even if it's a short call to just reflect a little bit on the IDF meeting what action items uh we picked up and kind of what the next steps are if we wait a few weeks after the IDF meeting took place then uh all the all our memories about it would have vanished and so we would start from scratch again like summarizing um I think the the hackathon went quite well and John gave a detailed presentation about it I think we accomplished what we had uh we accomplished our goal to put this FDA use case together um I also learned a lot new as I was playing around with the code that was available the the skid emulator and uh with the with the back end or the backends provided by Ori and by John so that was good it's still high Hank um there's still for me the question on how the skid emulator is going to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "um sort of aligned with the specification because it's currently not so super friendly to use because the terminology it uses uh for everything for the apis for the for the command line for yeah for everything is is outdated by now I don't know who is actually maintaining it so that's that's something we should probably or we we might want to talk about [Music] John uh yeah probably is worth talking about so a couple of things I'm currently maintaining it um and have some support from from others here in sort of reviews and stuff um one of the things that came out of last week is that we want to split out the there was currently called a candidate API um from the architecture document and put it in its own um work product which eventually will become an ID uh possibly even an RFC at some point so um we're going to create a thing called Scrappy um and put all the stuff in there so my hope and expectation is that as we build that document uh updating the API specification with a bit more um uh correctness like expected error codes and things like that as we update that document um we'll update the emulator possibly even rewrite it but we'll update the open source code hand in hand with that to meet the original expectation that it's supposed to mirror and test the specification rather than sort of replace or drive it so I think we should find a relatively natural way of updating it I've got at least me and one other resource in my company who can do that and I'm hoping to get some modest support from from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "other folks who cool uh okay thanks John uh Ray okay uh yeah so um I was pretty happy with the whole thing I have to say um the hackathon I got my t-shirt on so but I put the video on um was really well run I think the whole event was well run um Dave uh you know if if anyone uh ever thinks about going to the hackathon um or this event in general um I'd say you know give it a shot um now in terms of of the status of things um it appears to me that that the uh uh uh you know we've we've essentially pulled a few things out of this and which is which is fine uh because what it does is it gives us uh kind of a more solid core that can be uh that that can be like laid to rest and and not laid to rest but you know solidified in such a way that um probably won't need a whole lot of revision as we move up the up into higher higher levels of abstraction so um the uh and and I so I think the conversations were were pretty good in terms of um trying to understand [Music] why we were pulling out like the identity and the um you know looking at looking at um the document the Json object that the ver the the vendor uh submission file uh that um was uh suggested by dick as a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "starting point I think gives us a lot to chew on and but I think we should probably um at least I am I'm going to be taking a look at the election um application and make a corresponding similar sort of a submission document to that and then take a look at how to to break off the identity part and and probably and maybe make those two two different parts because the identity doesn't have to change very often for for many other submissions but whether how that gets incorporated into the the basal or the the core um I think is still I don't understand exactly you know how it's done other than I mean I understand the basis of like if we have a signed artifact that can be submitted to this thing and someone else can check it to say yeah that's the same one that I have in hand but that doesn't really close the loop on all these other things that we need to do um in order to um to really have a full solution so anyway that's where I am I I'm gonna I I didn't get a chance to work on it at all since I came back I did not attend the rest of the meeting although I'm watching a lot of the videos uh I did go to the the like quick RFC hot rfc's presentations um there's a lot that I don't happen to know um because if you if you don't stay you know uh absolutely and trying to stay on the leading ad Leading Edge of things you'll find out that um you've missed things for the last few years that other people have been working on all time and again so that was very very interesting of things that are that are not not actually applicable to this subject but anyway that's my take on it I I hope those those Reflections are useful to other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "people um and I will be I'll tell you what my plans are is I'm going to be as I said doing the election Json thingy and trying to to make some suggestions on how we can move that level forward and make sure that this underlying structure is actually compatible with what we have on top thanks thanks Ray and nice t-shirt it's nice it's a nice t-shirt I have to say good good value for the hackathon the price of the hackathon and all the food they give you was was really nice it's difficult to beat here or how two people uh right it's a good good day everyone so Ray I sent a few people your way I hadn't realized you weren't there on Monday so there's people are wanted to talk to you so they may reach out um for the hackathon it became very clear that we have to close down there on the architecture document and move forward on some of the remaining open issues in their entirety there was one new scenario that came up post the hackathon that I haven't talked to John about but I talked to others about which is in the physical supply chain in a nationalistic mechanisms we may need a mechanism where we have more than one receipt from different skip instances for different Global regions um but I'll start a thread on the the skip mailing list to discuss that Hannah I saw your comment of asking for the the emulator see what we can do for for people it's been a heck of a week they were I noticed that in the skip meeting we had a few cases where hidden agendas wanted to to Trump and drive some part of the discussion um to force it into other discussions and thanks Kirsten for the meeting with the Gordon gordian envelope people and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "hopefully you get some clarity there [Music] um I don't know what happened the rest of the week because I left on Monday and I've been running ever since so did you write uh and then there's the meeting about the guardian envelopes oh yes I was one of those three main that we had at Mass defection at some point okay I I um is there kind of a summary of that meeting what came out of it it seems to be driven by some privacy requirements which I didn't quite understood um I wrote some stuff internally here I will send mail to Carson and to Hank and Ori who are also in the room we'll get a summary out of it the what they're trying to do is collective disclosure and what they were trying to drive into to skip was the concept of of privacy and protection which was kind of over and above what skip was trying to do right um if you use in a case where strong identity is required then the the notarization of the identities are configured to be that way if you wanted to use something like did with sub tickets to mask identities even that's supported but that's not a configuration requirement for skit though they wanted us to put it in somewhere saying suggested and be careful and watch for this Behavior I don't know whether that belongs in the architecture document okay so I guess I have to wait for your summary and maybe Retreat myself so there's probably no recording available um yeah I don't think we recorded it it was a zoom meeting oh really okay so yeah it was done outside the official office committee the official path yeah they were they were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "desperately trying to figure out how to get into seaboor and we gave them suggestions on how to bring It Forward they were trying to ship yesterday and get a rubber stamp and of course we're going we have some thoughts we have to read through the document and what the they came away with is they wanted us to read the document and give them feedback and help them try and strengthen them in the creative feedback from Kirsten and Ori and what they had to do was met with a little resistance okay okay I'll hand over to Hank now yeah Hank let's see okay yeah this is the thing I'm just trying to add on very carefully um that yeah there was some urgency by the authors and um so I think the main issue was to uh um Express the trees they need within civil structures natively and not using cozy at all and people were like but you could sign something or they have something you said no no no we're doing it like this and everybody's like okay um this is an interesting approach so maybe uh cut your approach in pieces I think was the main message uh because it's all in the one document and you're trying to solve different you're combining different approaches here uh that all you need to receiver somehow including the disabled discussion that was on the um and um and so now um yeah I'm not sure what they unpack from um that discussion I think there was um there were sometimes a little bit um irritated due to the amount of feedback and and and but I assume that the message at least message of maybe do a divide and conquer and create a rationale where you want to do this in Native Cebu and why it needs your specific uh deterministic symbol and not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "the one that now is written up by Carlson as a um I want to say but but there must be for the side meeting uh it's a compromise between multiple approaches I so that has to happen now I'm not entirely sure how the authors of the Guardian envelope will um react to that but it is very specific and it is a monolithic designed and um as you can see with skit we are we are even making approaches more generic and this is yeah it's basically the other way around so we will see how this works out um I think that in general they're smart people but I think they they figured a lot they built a lot of hammers uh for for narrative we have no idea how they look like at the moment so um um that's that's that says to be figured out I think so is there um is it is it sort of like somewhere somewhat clear what the Privacy benefit for a skit would be it is except for except for us taking it in as a payload and and generating a receipt for an outer cozy wrapper what they were trying to do was done with Seaboard directly and try to use basically trees of shredding of structures to to hide data so I they look it's not a hundred percent belongs in our field or in our discussion it has some interest that's why I posted the document so on the side you want to give feedback in and look at what they're proposing great but it's not something that gets pulled into cozy and Skip per se Kirsten did I get that correct is that what you got out of that as well I think Carson is not on the audio castles only on the zulip okay you can type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "oh the key trans questioning this also came up right I left before Hanks in his mail was there any more follow-up with key trans because there seem to be overlocked between the two yeah that's what I was asking about I I Wonder because I noticed on a schedule that their birds of feather was canceled and I wondered if anyone knew anything about it thanks yeah I can could you say some words to that so um oh apparently and I did not actually read that uh when um um Roman was starting the consensus call for the kishven charter he wrote if there's enough concerns before the ITF uh we can cancel the meeting and do not need a buff because there's enough consensus on list and to his perception that was the case and then his strategy was without notification to cancel the buffet that caused the confusion so I look back and yes he uh wrote exactly that he could do that or would do that if there was enough consensus but I think the signaling around consensus establishment was a little bit sparse and everybody was confused when this was not happening so the key trans is happening only the buff apparently was um canceled so if you have any problems with the current Charter I think you can find that on the key trends list are in the data tracker on the key keyframes group site and and if there's something in there that is confusing um please say so um I think kids friends is is definitely only about group chats and um the only thing I highlighted is well if this transcends group chats from two to thousands of people in in messaging services so it's basically I would call it s Mimi or whatever I don't know so um but but I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "don't know um so um so key trends was a little misleading name and if the problem here is if it comes up with very specific Solutions about uh group key transparency for messaging and then they accept the scope to let's say Supply chains then we would end up with very very different things and that would be very very sad and that is the only thing that I highlighted that if there is a scope change uh that has to be taken into account and I think skit is mentioned at least in the in the charter at the moment to be um Orchestra at with and even if it's on out of scope statement that everybody agrees about on yeah I can say a few words about uh heat trans as well because I met with uh the primary proponent of the work uh Brian Brenton McMillan macmillion uh and he um he basically told me what Hank just mentioned uh and like they are implementation or their specification is focused on on messaging uh specifically because they care about this end-to-end messaging and and want to use um their Bend Only log as a as a key store a sort of a key Value Store like where key means key value is twice a little bit misleading name when we talked about keys because the key is for in in this messaging context is the username and the value is the public key that's that's what it's designed for and it mixes well combines two um Mercury trees uh namely one the one we use as well uh the the log tree and additionally the prefix tree for faster search and on top of the the search option there's also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "um funny enough uh privacy construct called vrf you but not the vendor response form but the verifiable forgot the name again what the acronym stands for um pseudo-random function also uh some sort of privacy enhancing mechanism and so so it's a it's a very very much of purpose um build solution um we've obviously like addressing privacy requirements that are specific to medicine right so yeah so it's definitely interesting to watch [Music] but remains to be seen what comes out of it dick thank you harness uh yeah yeah I I've already written an article about this so I'll save you uh from how long I drive here but I I will say that I thought the hackathon's a great success and I put a link to my article in the chat a couple of things that I think were really noteworthy from that hackathon one is that we know uh we need to be able to access the trust statement after it's been registered into the uh into the trust registry and so the API that will submit the trust statement will need to provide a URL to the actual trust statement itself and this will enable a software producer to give that to a consumer so that they can retrieve the information that's in the registry directly sort of like a registry of deeds so that that's a that's a key one uh and the other thing too to mention is that you know there is there is a very active software supply chain that is you know you use every day and it includes things like pgp and Xbox 509 and digital signatures using those keys so it's I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "think it's imperative whatever we do here is to also accommodate what is current practice today and and I don't think it matters much how you implement it with regard to the ietf skit protocol so long as that protocol ensures the integrity of the process to register trusted statements yeah I think that's key if we if we fail to if we fail to protect the integrity of the trust registry uh then we we will likely have challenges in adoption so it's imperative that we have a process and a protocol that will ensure the Integrity of the material in the registry and accommodates existing practices today and provides a link to trusted statements when registered so that that information can be exchanged with parties who are interested in retrieving that data thanks thanks dick uh yeah I'm going to read your article later because I I hadn't noticed earlier thanks a lot good um any other Impressions from someone in the call regarding the ITF meeting or the or the hackathon itself if not I'm going to ask like I was in the Cozy meeting and regarding the receipts presentation I think that went pretty well um I was wondering what the timeline is so I I expected already a call for adoption to take place um because that would be important already sorry I think the call for adoption did go out um unless I'm confusing it with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "other call for adoptions that that went out but I'm fairly certain the cozy list has a call for adoption for the commuter draft which is the thing that we expect receipts to profile on top of and um also the CCF profiling draft was briefly introduced but there was no call for adoption for that one as far as a more okay then I missed it and um as soon as I look it up I will post it to the to the skit list because obviously there's a direct dependency to that work um yeah so that's excellent um okay I'll write this in for the for what it's worth I'm actually taking notes um foreign [Music] regarding uh Ray do you want to say something about that uh well um I just wanted to say that the the issue of the feed was something that that we did discuss quite a bit and I think there was there was still is some a couple of different points of view about what a feat is uh and it's different than what I thought it was um and what seemed to be stated in the document but then uh it seemed like there was some further discussion about that that um that may have pulled that together as into one kind of uniform I think John was was pulling that together into um uh the possibility of having several"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "different points of view but still able to uh the structure below still able to accommodate them all and and maybe some more talk about the feed issue could be would be appropriate today thanks uh John do you want to say something about this like what the next steps are also on the on the feedback yeah can do so um for those who watched or were in the room uh for my readout of the hackathon or the code section of the hackathon um I failed to do one of the things I was supposed to do which was to get unified submission of claims in the interoperable client interface um so I spent a little bit of last week finishing that off so that's now um on a branch in GitHub and and should be merged very soon or put out for a PR rather once I've had review from um from my team so I've got that done now and the next thing to do on the code base was um to in Implement feeds in there and just sort of do a suck it and see kind of approach to some of the details that um that we want because um I won't say too much because the Ori is in the queue and he'll probably give the the details of where we want to take the spec in this area but um at the moment the client doesn't take a feed at all which means it's not conformant with the spec where feed is a mandatory part of the unprotected header of the projected header rather um and so I want to fix that and then we'll see how it works with you know specifying just by name or by name and properties or or or whatever else so that should move forward in the next week or so hopefully uh in time for the next interim a branch are you talking about the a branch in your implementation or branch of the the architecture document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "of the um uh the things currently called the emulator but should really be the client ah okay okay my my thoughts and particularly to avoid having too many instances of taking off my chair hat and putting it back on again um my kind of service to this community is is mostly in trying to build what we've written in the specs and see if it actually works and and give some sort of practical hints to it rather than meddling in the the building of the documents themselves uh and so that's what I've been doing alongside the work that you know everybody else has been working on the on the specs so if yes so I I think the best thing to do would be to yield the floor to Ori who I see is in the queue and he'll probably comment on that so I think um I think the next steps that are important for making progress on feed are to expose some URLs from the API that are related to consuming feeds or at least to think about sort of if you had received the collection of documents that were using the feed structure and you wanted to expose a specific um receipt or transparent sign statement via URL how might that interact with the API I think you know the other challenging part here is there's the artifact repository transparency service kind of combo where they come together and where URLs might you know be built that really support discovering a specific artifact and then there's the sort of detached mode where the transparency service and the artifact repository like very separate and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "um just the the URLs structure around feeds and that topic I think the API needs to sort of sort out the boundary for um and one other thing I guess is that if we do have some URL structures that we're starting to like I think it's worth evaluating whether there will be data Uris or QR codes associated with some of those standard rest API interfaces you know maybe the answer is you know no but I think it can be helpful to think about other cases where you've had as you know specific elements that had a QR code associated with them what is stealing a QR code mean in that context hopefully it's safe to just steal them paste them on various things but you know you won't be cautious around privacy and security considerations as soon as you have URLs you want to become cautious about what does it mean if that URL becomes a QR code and people start scanning it and clicking it that kind of thing that's it yeah uh Ori what's what's the timeline or um or Hancock whoever is working on it to take out the existing API description move it into a new document and then beef it up there like are we talking about the next two weeks or are we talking about like years or what what's the plan so I don't know the exact timeline for those kinds of changes um there was one other thing I wanted to say before I forget which is I think the current API client does some sort of signing locally and I guess it's worth considering whether the authenticated remote signer use case you know is is part of this ecosystem or not and the reason I bring that up is that it it can make interoperability testing a little bit difficult having some of this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "stuff sort of split out from the client and it's it's related to a number of conversations I had with other folks throughout the week around you know where is the confidence and the keys that you're using to sign the sign statements the original issuer uh claims about the artifact as opposed to the confidence and the keys that are used to make the transparent signed statements which you know are coming from the transparency service so I don't know the timeline for the API but having an independent document that can have independent polar quests and move along a little bit faster seems like a thing that we should get set up soon so that we can make parallel progress I agree uh dick thank you harness yeah I think or he hit on a really good point there uh there's a lot of work as you know right now to uh post registered trust marks or trust labels uh the U.S is doing one we're going to have language in the far this September the EU CRA has this concept of a CE Mark and the constant and the concepts of both evolving around the use of QR codes so ori's point about QR codes is is really important I think because it would be viable in Myoma in my opinion to post a QR code into a skit trust registry where people can retrieve that and then you know look up any trust label information that may be associated with that QR code so I think having that is a high priority use case this use of trust labels and QR codes for that purpose would be very beneficial and skit seems to be a viable solution for that for that particular case thank you thanks thanks dick pink um yeah I was not sure if that was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "um um kind of kind of implied already but but there is now a scrappy ID that includes a copy a raw copy it doesn't make a lot of sense by itself without introduction such a raw copy of the uh of the API definitions that are currently in the architecture uh consecutively that though the API parts will move out of the architecture but that was not enough reason to update it right now so uh um expect these two disappear from the architecture and maybe a reference to uh the reference API will remain there and yeah this is the place to work on so um the document exists um I don't know when I did it but I did it I could it was updated two days ago whatever that means but I did it last week I think but uh um when do you plan to submit that document oh yeah it has it needs more love so um there's just uh the core if I think uh as soon as John and uh already agree on core API elements uh because I couldn't do the first submission and that does not have to include all uh open construction sites like whatever feeds and such so it has to be uh the basis for construction here and then we can see how many uh um levels we've built on it so um I think our first submission could be relatively um soon um for my my gathering tells me that it will be a start of September maybe earlier but I'm just being realistic so four weeks typically uh it seems like a good time you want to be like uh you could as well start with the current uh API description before adding the search functionality and and I'm sort of extending that but uh I um I assume uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "John and Ori are your co-authors on that so getting something out there I think would be good um because then uh as as it was mentioned earlier uh by Ori we can then sort of work in parallel on those two documents right yeah that's not nothing inhibiting you from working on the document right now we can do this in parallel right now if you submit something or not it's making it more visible yes but uh the working on it is not inhibited by anything but uh yeah that's that's a sort of a request to the people who who had the who have depend on that document so that's that would be good okay um I had done a detailed review of the architecture document um not quite sure how I should best uh distribute that well I should just I did it on paper um I can scan it in and send it around or I could as well my top three items uh to the list I don't know super great everything that is more conceptual is is okay with the issue if you want to do it formally and make uh already very happy um make a tiny issue for HPR um but um but I think a good PR description is also fine please already don't install things at me and um so um so I think yeah GitHub uh PRS are the most valuable contribution okay I see there's a few a few questions in the the chat questions about uh what's a trust label and what's the idea of the QR code uh I don't know if someone can can respond to that yeah harness I can point to those so two two places where you can look for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "information about those is uh if you look at the European uh cyber security resilience act they talk very specifically about this use of trust essentially trust labels they call them a CE Mark and it's essentially intended to provide some level of proof that a a product has undergone some level of cyber security testing and and past some you know requirements the same is also true for uh what's happening in the United States as well there are there's a President Biden announced that there's a new initiative that's due to be completed by September 30th which is called the U.S cyber security Mark and it's a these talk about use of a QR code that can be placed on a either like an iot device some packaging or on an online website that enables the user to go look at you know some information about the trustworthiness of these devices by looking at the materials they submitted to achieve their you know certification or their Trustmark so I can put links in the chat if you're really interested in about in the US and the EU information on trust labeling thanks I have a question so is that static or is that the dynamic evaluation like in Andy malware go off and say hey is there actually a virus in there after the fact or are these pre-assigned hey you're good to go forevermore sort of labels yeah Roy I did some research on this and Singapore and Finland both have what effectively are static labels uh I don't know what the eucce Mark will be and I don't know what the U.S cyber security Mark will be but I have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "suggested to nist that we have Dynamic labels simply because trust in software is ephemeral it it's one it can change from one day to the next an identifier that takes you to the data you're very basically saying hey QR code to a to a grid and grid to information yeah I'm just using their terminology they call them labels if you look at the nist iot labelings recommendations that you know they all refer to these things as labels uh and I so I you know I I just adopt their terminology for this but but ultimately what it does is it points to some information which you hope is trustworthy hence the reason why it needs to be in a skit trust registry uh so that people can take that information believe it when they see it and use it to you know in a risk-based uh mind decision you know so anyway I'll put two links in I'll put a link a couple of links in the chat for people who want to know more about that thanks thanks or not but um I just I I always um think it's unhelpful to to throw the word trust around Loosely especially you know as as Roy points out if it's if it's a static thing because you know we need to assume breach and we need to um continually revise those things so if there's somebody using it um as dick is pointing out as if it's just a label and that's something you can slap on something and it's static and I mean those are all the images the term conjures up for me I think we should push back and we should say you know the actual value of skit is a that you can have uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "statements out there that that can permanently be tied back to the person who made the claim that they had fulfilled the requirements for cyber security Etc and that can then be referred to later on if and when problems come up so I just um wonder if we can use better terminal yeah um you know like when uh from my experience when regulator come up with things it's difficult to convince them to use different terminology even even though I often think that we are totally off like my most my most favorite item is the zero trust concept um I I'm sure you've heard about that zero trust networking and all these sort of um terminology is not what you think it is uh but um yeah so it's It's Tricky tricky dick yeah thank you harness yeah Neil I I agree completely I also agree with honors too I I can tell you that uh software Engineers don't swim well in pools with politicians and regulators and they're the ones who come up with these terms and once they have their stuck uh but the the point and the thing about skit which I really like a lot is it really doesn't matter whether it's static or dynamic because skit gives us the ability to support both you know if you put a link into a trust registry and says this points to a label well that can be dynamic or static either one so that's the beauty of skit is it supports both Concepts if people want to use one or the other so I think we're in pretty good position guys actually I tend to agree with you know we need to push back where we can to get the term terminology otherwise we're going to end up with a trust LTE sort of discussion that we had with 4G and 3G"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "okay okay so I guess Roy I guess what you're suggesting then and I have no objection to it is that you would want to go back and change the language in things like the EU CRA and the language that would be coming to the far in the U.S um those are those are no simple tax based on my own experience working with some of those folks had many of conversations with with lobbyists and so forth who come up with laws that say hey we don't know what's going to stick and what's not but trying to get if we mislead the public that hey a static thing of trust is what we're going for we're going to do a disservice I think we have to be very careful in this regard of educating where we can yeah to avoid it in our own conversations too and and you know re-label it as appropriate just so that we always have um you know a a useful Concept in mind thanks trust in software is ephemeral it's trustworthy one day and it may not be the next well I completely agree with you Roy I think it would be a disservice if we told them if we gave him a static label and game uh you know a false sense of security when in fact there is okay so um let me jump in the uh I think it'd be pretty useful for us to uh take a look at this top very top view and and dick you may be the best person to come in with something to say let's say I did have this label on a product iot product or on a website or whatever when I just downloaded the software and I guess I'm supposed to shine my cell phone on it and bring up the the thing or else click on the link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "what do I get and if we had uh a an idea a very clear idea of what we get when and in response to that then we can start working down from that top level goal toward the filling in the blanks because what we've got so far is what I see is is a a core building block that is um you know everything has been pushed out of it that we don't fully understand yet and you that's good because that means that everything in it hopefully we do fully understand and it can be locked down and then that becomes a very solid building block but now we need to fill in the difference between the the gap between what what is desired by um you know regulators and you know the public really uh here and where this building block is and to see if we can't start to fill in um fill that in so maybe is there any the question is is there any real proposals for what's supposed to be the response to clicking on the QR code and and maybe we can get some proposed you know some solid like that vrf and I think we should change the name of it to the the vendor submission form or something because vrf is going to always be a problem but the vendor form uh that was that was really useful and I don't know if that's that I don't think that can be the response I mean I I think that when you click on the QR code I don't think the vendor submission form is going to be it yeah it's gonna have to be something else thanks go ahead um yeah my mic is acting up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "um they were talking about pointing to Dynamic things and get somehow I assume that um all the things that we um will point to uh always uh enshrined in some event Only log but but the thing you probably want to point to and have a smart uh query on is the feed structure for example so um that seems to be relatively close together and I assume that is what are we also implied maybe um that I'm guessing now so maybe that would be a thing that we can talk about when the uh first solution will come out are a little more clear I mean not an idea solution sorry so uh Hank so you are saying the feed structure is essentially what uh basically would be encoded in the QR code and would serve them as a lookup is that what you're saying did I hear you correctly um that could be a thing it could be a module that has a much file that also points to that feed structure depends on how much you need um maybe you need more than than the things is good service can give to you and there's already a relatively composable mudfire thing that could include for example pointer to the correct feed query and the responsible transparency service list for example you don't know maybe there are multiple um and and such so I would not say that directly the fee but that would be one of the options yes okay uh what happened with the discussion of company identification you said you were going to do that through the week I didn't hear you talk about that yeah that's I'm it's still ongoing like I talked to various people but uh there's no clear since I got uh like there was no clear response it it kind of sounds like a difficult problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "but I'm I'm still on to it uh so like we had some ideas um also discussed at the hackathon uh which I could summarize um based on what Ori distributed and some of the stuff that was sent to the mailing list but it's um you know people seem to be all over the map there on that topic so still still ongoing nil great thanks um yeah I had the the same idea Hank that um pointing to a feed either directly or indirectly would be great and so just to wrap it back to Dick's example you know this and in the way that that Ray framed it it would be great if I as a user could buy some product and there was a QR code and uh the it would essentially be the the vendor claiming compliance with you know your set of of requirements and but it needs to be dynamic and that's the the benefit of skid and we need to make it clear and interoperable and you know continue to work in whatever ways that we need to do that that a real person could click on something like that and and the the vendor would be responsible for keeping that feed up to date with whether it was actually no longer in compliance for example and you know so that I I think in some sense and I'm sure that it's more complicated than I'm imagining but in some sense could be um a a way to help the vendors clarify what they're claiming and help users figure out what the current status is and and because we're talking about a formally defined"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "compliance claim that they're making it's kind of it should be a yes no answer whether or not something is still in compliance or whether you need an update or whatever so I that would be a really useful use case is kind of what I think I forgot what I was skewed to say no no problem uh we are actually already reaching the end of the hour uh I took a lot of notes but uh on the last item on this QR code thing I'm actually wondering whether it would be good to write a short document the short draft uh providing a little bit of a background um like based on these regulatory proposals and then a description on how we would actually accomplish this in in an intraoperable form um I think that could be could be quite useful for anyone who has not been following like this meeting or um the discussions on the on the list recently just thinking loud here um yeah dick you should just do something to throw into uh the use case document that may be two because it's more than you also need to have a little bit of a specification part on how you how you tie the different pieces together thank you Johannes uh this is Dick Brook so yeah I I will happily uh contribute to that but I would hope that we could do this collaboratively a few of us put to get put our minds together and come up with something and I'd also ask that we you know not just keep this within skit but I'll actually you know publish whatever"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "we produce with the parties that are considering implementation of this like in this case the FCC in the U.S uh I don't know who will be doing it over in EU but I'll bet there's some guys that you know that who will know that answer but it whatever we do here hopefully we can communicate to others the value that skit brings for this specific purpose so I'm happy to contribute with others that would be perfect since you have a lot of information about the background I hope someone in the call could uh work with dick on on such a document I don't think it needs to be long uh Hank just me I I kind of wouldn't volunteer to you uh like volunteled as they say foreign it's going to take all of us to get this uh to get what we want said that's pink um yeah so obviously uh um I have some thought into this uh rats uh needed a specific way to refer to um verifiers for their um for their testers that that can be found easily for relying parties so that they can actually do some of the models that's also why there's now this conceptual message wrap and such and so um so skit has the same issue we want also have uh um events also have to an understanding that the transparency service itself is uh um trustworthy composed photography and therefore we have multiple methods to do them one of them on a lower layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "again is red so um so that I I I I actually go with a few proposals that that's that go basically on the abstract level so what are the requirements on this what we think so we have a lot of experience with QR codes since covert I think and expressing a a vaccine certificate in a cwt with the QR code is a thing that has been done in Germany for example so or everybody who knows there or QR code for being vaccinated might also know that it's a civil encoded thing and um so um so I think there are multiple ways to do this and I assume that we can write up at least a set of requirements uh derived from from standards and and compliance regulation and then and go with some building blocks that would compose a potential solution here and then we can base but I think create visibility with that document I think under that's what your point was and and but then we can also already provide some some idea where our requirements come from and most certainly also what the idea of buildings blocks already exists uh to to maybe build a solution for this sounds good I think that was also sort of the famous last word for this card um good okay John and I will definitely sort of ping you regarding some of the action items you received during the during the last week and and also doing this summary we did today uh so be prepared and uh we are going to set up a call for next week again uh think about the agenda maybe we'll uh talk about the we could talk about the API we could also talk about the update to the architecture document there have been a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "few we can talk about the feed the details of defeat uh in case in case you guys made some progress there so whatever it is um please let us know if there's a specific top topic you would like to talk about uh so we can put it on the agenda and announce the meeting ASAP okay okay okay thanks everyone thank you thanks a lot good meeting thanks Mike till next week from my vacation education accident uh foreign"
  }
]
