[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "hello everyone can you hear me [Music] yes hello carsten how are things going hello so wait a couple of minutes couple of minutes and we can start hello do you hear me hello yes okay good it was crashing it's each time i tried to talk i don't know why come from here everybody this thing is weird each time i unnew the mute i get an error message as i got that before okay this time it worked yes i need to use the other mute okay let me um so i will stay green the whole time but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "that doesn't mean that i will say something it's just means i can unmute without things going down here no problem at all uh let me just check why why the preloaded slides do not appear in mythical normally um normally they should be here it [Music] nice to see you hi alex can you hear me yes yes very well okay yes i see this so just one one more minute and we'll get started i think your laptop is closed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:21",
    "text": "yes um sorry actually i don't know why i cannot share the preloaded slides because normally they are pre-loaded and i mean it should be able to fetch them from the website um oh hello everybody can you try whether i can do it just give me the slight stick okay let me see uh okay yes no slides available yes that's not enough you need to import them on the top right corner with the button with a screwdriver and the wrench oh okay manage slides oh yes [Music] you very much carsten i still don't know why you couldn't screenshare but that would explain why you couldn't share a deck yes yes yes but they were uh okay so they are here oh perfect otherwise i would have shared my screen but it's much better this way so thank you very much karsten for that um so then we can get started uh pascal is not going to be joining us for for this session uh so uh we can get started so hello everyone uh this is an intern meeting of the lp1 working group uh and so pascal is not here but uh he'll be there for for the next time and eric is with us thank you very much eric"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "for being with us uh so this is an official itf meeting and as such all ietf policies do apply so please read the note well and you should be aware of the full documents that are listed here all the bcps that are listed uh regarding copyright code of conduct anti-harassment procedures uh patents and participation and the whole process so with that uh being said uh the first thing is that we are taking minutes please do participate into the collaborative minute taking uh process so it is done at the so the link is is given here i'm going to post it as well uh in the chat on uh so we're using the code dmd platform uh oh and here is pascal as well that who is going to to be with us uh we are not recording the minutes so we're not doing any video recording uh but we are uh going to capture the the participation from the uh yes and eric says good day uh so we are going so the your participation will be locked uh for the for for the blue sheets so do uh take uh do do take notes to participate in the note-taking session uh i'm going to copy it right now in the chat window as well oh the video is recorded thank you very much eric i actually wasn't so yes it is it is said that it's recording so uh oh that's good actually so then we have the full recordings of all uh me taco meetings that's good to know so uh with that being said we move on to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "uh our agenda bashing so um we have uh a couple of of uh of items for today so the first one is the compound act publication steps uh and the second is the young data model or working group last call steps so the updates from lauren and uh any other points that uh that may uh that may be uh put in question then so does anyone have any uh point to that you would like to add to them to the agenda for today uh no okay well we will see uh if at the end there are any other points that we made so with that uh being said let me just see because there's someone in the chat okay the chat is also recorded so thank you eric so the chat is also recorded uh and so if you want to have a nice picture of you use gravatar.com all right i think i have some not so bad photo but that's from the hf uh so yes action items from the last time uh so to the first point was to call for a separate call for shepard for a compound act draft so i did a couple of point-to-point requests but unfortunately everyone is being quite busy in the uh in these in the la in a couple of these couple of weeks so either i got a very uh delayed answers or people were really um overburdened so pascal actually sent uh uh today uh uh a reminder for the for the shepherd call uh demandingly on the mailing list and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "we'll wait to see who is going to be um who is going to be able to uh to to volunteer to be a shepherd uh pascal do you want to use david has mentioned that he could be the shepherd okay so that's good thank you very much dominic and that would be a wonderful thing so eric if that's okay with you then um then we could yeah it's obviously okay for me right so thank you for being forward okay so that's perfect thanks to dominic so then um from [Music] as we have our uh our shepherd then um then we can continue with the compound pack draft and we had some action items from the last time to from juan carlos uh for the update of the compound airdraft and uh so i'm not sure if uh let me see if we if we had some uh so we yes we have so these are the action items and we'll go back to so there are there are some um we have some slides that are specific on the compound tag so we'll get that onto that uh and also we had on the data model draft uh some issue with the detect lifetime uh and uh the feature or for the compression so the compression feature right uh that needed to be corrected by lauren"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "so i'm going to leave these two points for for the discussion uh where uh for the young data model uh young data model uh documents so um from there on on the working group status uh hasn't changed so uh there is just the so there are two points so the one is the the oam so we needed to update that i think and the first in the other point is the chicober nbiut which is february 2022 so uh anna redgar and now i would say um how are we going with the shakeover and the iut okay we are just finishing the last modification for the new version and i think that next week or the other we will be able to publish the last version and we will ask for last call okay so that that is uh some good news let me just double check whenever that when is the deadline where is the cutoff deadline for um a drop before it's no problem right if you if you publish foreign is finishing in april so there is no problem for that um so yes it's in yes it's in march the the cut of date so you're you're well you're well ahead of it okay well then that's uh uh yes karsten do you do you want to say something though or uh or just green because you don't want to mute yeah sorry i'm getting errors each time i i'm new so i just keep the audio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "channel on sorry about that no no no no no no i i just switched the windows and i was not sure if you wanted to say something about this so if you if you have to say something just go ahead um okay so thanks anna so uh that means that uh yes we'll be able to uh to to start the the working group last call uh after you so for the next uh interim meeting and also that means that we will need to to start looking for a shepherd as well at some point for your document and as we see that it may take some time uh maybe we'll it will be wise to to to start looking uh sooner than later right um so uh i think that the draft has been quite stable for for some time now so starting the working with last call would be uh would be the next uh logical step and so that we can get the reviews uh and and you know continue with the process but that's good news thank you anna uh and uh i don't remember uh dominique what what did we say about the oam uh about the did we note the new uh [Music] i i think we had it in the notes in the in the la for the last time to change the uh the publication date uh right i think at the end of the year okay let me capture that so that i'm [Music] so that i can then have a an action item for that um change uh publication date for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "for oam for endless 2022 so i'll do that for uh uh action i'll i'll do that for um for our next uh for our next interim meeting all right and okay so that's that's about this and yes of course then we have the compound pack uh all right so this is the the working group status uh document advancement so there has not been much change here and yes hurry past i was saying no no change at all it's the exact same slide since two terms ago yes so thanks about this pascal so um let's then uh go on to a publishing compound hack so juan carlos can you give us some update on that yeah sorry i just changed the device can you hear me yes very well okay thanks um yeah actually i i had uh on me that uh action to to make the the edits and and i do have the text uh suggested uh uh after our discussion and sergio helped also with the editing all that is in my in my to-do list it's just that i had some unexpected issues that prevent me from from publishing before this call that was my intention but the idea is to to have that new text that that we have uh published in the next couple of days so with that i think we should be good to to go with the with the new shepherd and and uh continue with the publish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:05",
    "text": "okay so then so so in the next you said in the next couple of days uh so let's say let's say by by the next week you can if you can publish that then it means that we'll have everything we'll have this the um uh shakeover sigfox and shake compound ack and the new young data model that uh you know that doesn't include the specificities of the the compound act so we have these three documents uh with the shepherding uh so with um with dominic as a shepherd for the sheep compound ack draft so that means that uh will be able to so if everything goes well with the sheet compound deck and there are not a lot of of uh modifications to uh to to to do there that will be able to call for a working group last call for at least for these two documents the sheet component in the next weeks in the following weeks yeah well my i mean we did the call didn't we for for the for the compound act yeah let's call it the publication request that we need to do now okay yes yes yes thank you thank you for the other two that that we have to start the world plus call yeah and find the ship yes yes that that that is my understanding too okay yes thank you juan carlos yes so so we've been continuing the working with glasgow for some time now uh for the compound i mean we did the the last call we did get the comments uh we we discussed uh last week the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "specifics of the of the editing that we have to do and that's what it's on my on my back to to do it and i'm planning to publish in the next couple of days so that that should be good to continue the publishing for the compound act and yeah and then we will push the but i'll push the button if you want alex okay yes so yeah that that is for the compound like for default for the other two i don't know if you want to talk about now or you want to uh well i mean yes for me so the so then on the compound deck it's it's the shepherd who is calling for the ipr if i remember correctly or it's the chairs i don't remember in the process who is is the shepherd that needs to do it okay and by the way the chef has typically expect reply from authors but the request is sent to the working group and anybody who is aware of ipr must declare it or it should even it's not an author okay thank you thank you eric for for the clarification um okay yes so so yes indeed so the ship compound attack then uh and thank you very much dominic then uh uh that means that after juan carlos makes the the changes uh and and if we into if the the the the people that made the comments are are okay with that then we can then domini can send the uh the confirmation of ipr on the mailing list and then after we have the declarations"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "uh you know with uh so pascal can push the button and it can be sent for publication it can be sent for isg evaluation so compound back that's uh that's this document uh and then juan carlos how what do you think about the the the shakeover sig fox what will be the next steps there so there we are also uh planning to to do an update uh right now the priorities on the compound act because that is going for publication uh but right after we will work on the on the sheikh or siegfox and uh implement also some changes that that we have discussed and i think by then uh we can just we can have of course another discussion in the group but we believe we will be ready for working group last call okay okay so then um we'll probably okay well perfect thanks uh thanks for caring [Music] all right that's that's the that's the only point here for the compound hack do you have does do you have anything to add on carlos or or anyone on this part no not myself thank you [Music] okay perfect um so with this uh then we move on to the second point uh for today which is the yang data model update so uh let me see i think i what have you done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "right i disappeared okay okay so go ahead okay so i i just talked about the updates i made to we made to the young data model so they are very light but they include what we have discussed uh last time so next slide please so here is the first one it's to change the name from max window size to windows it cuts i didn't yeah that's strange it's okay here because i got a warning that do you hear me yes now we can hear you okay so i said that we change max window size to window size to be compatible with the naming in 8724 and the description has been a little bit it is a little bit more explicit same thing for max interleave frames whereas the description include what we discussed last time next slide can you check okay and here it's what you're saying that no compression is mandatory even when we have no we have a compression model or uh fragmentation module so now it's mandatory in the rule so there is no more feature for this so dominic do you think it's solve your comment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "yeah i trust you it does i will check nonetheless sorry i didn't have enough time to work on it for since the last meeting but i'll come and do that again okay so for me now it's quite stable so we what i if you agree now i will move all this i will reflect all this change in in the draft and publish a new new version and then we i don't know if we can start a last call on during the ietf meeting or if we can do it before but for me we we have something that covers well what we expect for for chic and what i will try to to do during the acaton it's to write an open cheek converter that will transform openshift rule description into uh uh conf description you know if you you if you're really getting ready to publish uh and if you publish in the coming days we have time for launching workgroup last call that would effectively complete the atf so the the the the nice thing is then that the atf we can effectively discuss the resolution of the work of classical issues so if she can do that that's the best okay yes yes so but that will be great if we can start the already the last call and we can work on the resolutions and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "yes when the hackathon that will be really great if you are able to you know to already integrate parts of these uh comments that you'll get from the working cycle i don't think it's too too complex where already uh do the transformation in json so in co conf it should be almost the same okay well perfect um that's perfect uh tick tick tick well um okay so that i think so that was the the last point that we have on the uh that we have on the on the agenda for today um i would have just a short question here because i was uh just you know before we before we we continue on before we end the session um dominique because i was looking of course about updating the the the milestones and uh i'm not sure if i can find the uh the document for oam uh the draft for the oan so i think it is still uh as a draft uh yes so the the point is do you uh and it here is also a question for eric do we do does uh dominic need to submit uh np1 oan 0-0 or do we continue with the document bartel draft bartel like the individual submission so i lost my audio for a while so i hear only part of your questions uh siri alexander now i don't remember for the oem draft whether the document has been adopted by this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "working group or not uh so i need to double check i think we adopted it dominic i i think we adopted it right i we had a uh one of the its we had a we had a call with a raise of hands or maybe a mistake in dominic it's easy to check right we simply need to look into the mailing list to see the status if it has been declared adopted by the chairs then dominic you can upload the same drive the same content just changing the name right draft iatf lp1 00. change the date change your name and that's it and sbb was doing it even if there's no change in the content itself okay i'll check but i think this the adoption has not happened otherwise i would have republished it so simple it would make sense thank you okay well then uh i will change the milestone for the oam draft in any case and then uh so dominic are you going to look it up if you if you look it up i'm not going to i'm not going to do it uh or otherwise i'll i'll i'll try to make a note in there if somebody can make an automatic sorry in another meeting at the same time so how to take notes as well okay okay so i'll just update we'll just update the the milestone and uh then if if it has not already been adopted we will call for adoption of the document as a working group document and then you can you know if it is adopted you can publish it as uh with its version lp1 oan oan-00 and we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "can assign it to the master okay i'll check before you call for adoption it needs to be to be visible so if it has expired i need to revise the old name before you can do it sorry you confirmed option i'll take care of it okay perfect thank you dominic [Music] all right so um these are all the points on on on my side for today do you have any other business for today yes there is i think i will talk about uh uh about chick in a draft about internet addressing gap analysis and so they were talking about so it's in the in-server working group so they were talking about 6 law and all that different compression mechanism but not about cheek or just say chic is like six law and now there is a paragraph that explains a little bit more what chick is doing to addresses okay perfect so can you send the pointer to the to the draft maybe the so you're going you you will add this document to the draft right i mean this part your your text you're going to be it's going to be added to the job yeah sorry because i have some blinking windows that say that it's got is not cut so it's i don't know if you hear me i think so right now yes okay it's a regie that will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "publish a new version soon so i think it's better to to wait i can i publish the document before i'm putting into the list yeah sure when when it gets it will be done i will i will make a reference to it okay perfect well that's great well then thank you very much graham um so do you have any other any other business any other items to discuss no so we it has been um a very productive uh interim meeting a lot of action points i think and uh we advanced quite a lot on many of the of the open items from the last time so with this i'm going to uh yes and as eric says let's hope to meet in vienna in person or or a remote meeting at the worst case but in any case so i would suggest that we declare victory for this meeting and uh profit from the remaining uh 20 minutes uh no and eric yes no i simply want to say thank you for the cheer and bye-bye you've done it all so thank you so no much you prescott thank you thanks eric thank you everyone for for being here and i'll update uh upload the minutes and send send to the mailing list thank you all okay i'll do the minutes it's already taken care of alexa because the minutes are in md you know so i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uploading them i uploaded the agenda and they were playing yes yes md that means macd night you know so we have another interim in two weeks if i'm not mistaken yes and so talk to you in two weeks then yes and thanks to everyone that took i took notes thanks dominique thanks everyone bye bye you"
  }
]
