[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "uh can put everyone on the same page but um yeah that's fine um a question to the group I uploaded all my slides to the data tracker does it do interims do not provide them through the media call so typically I find them in Beauty material they do you may have to go to settings to the screwdriver and I see a wrench and then you can import them because they they do they do their thing um 15 minutes before the meeting starts oh yeah I see no interesting okay last time I probably my coach edited it so I was like cool they're already there um let me try to find a close button and to refresh this one here that did not do the trick so it says decks are ready to be shared but they are not there okay last time this was working brilliantly I was actually happy oh and now that works okay it's just that the sun seems to be some delay here if I press refresh one more time it works wonderful let's go with the introduction we are already one minute in it proposed my slides so that they wind up in the record here nah I'm still trying to share them now let me have you accepted them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "yeah let me let me get the the most the easiest thing first that these are mine if you propose them I can refresh them here and then the meeting thank you so much and then you can refresh them yeah but uh but I don't see something to accept yet okay just a second I just successfully share the slide I wonder if all that worked out look there I I'm fibing diabetics materials but we can um start now I think uh welcome everybody to the iot apps virtual interim um we have a overlap with um the co-working group that's due to Smart Share scheduling I have supported up to iot of chairs because we can't distinguish 60 minutes from 90 minutes and now 30 minutes spillover of uh car are happening here in iot oops that's not a huge problem because they think some of the audience will be uh the same um so this will be recorded uh I'm pretty sure everybody knows the node well this is an official ietf meeting so uh the movie applies especially with a code of conduct and copyrights please read the bsps if you're not familiar with them also um only say things that you think that other people should say to you in the same way so be nice that's always a good way to treat each other um having said that we are have a standard procedure here on the I'm Hank burkholz I'm your um I'm one of the co-chairs Alexey minikoff is uh the other co-chair currently absent but hopefully incoming at the bottom of the hour we have a zoo lib formerly known as Japan that at the moment we have tulip um if you could have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "scribe for the chat that would be helpful if the chat comments are there I know we are like with 13 participants it's not the biggest crowd ever anybody here volunteering for our minutes drives the link is here also on the data tracker of course so this is a Cricut pause but I unfortunately think we can't really uh continue also uh we can't really stress that uh present us to the minutes so typically I would and I volunteered and so I'll volunteer again with the mute off oh I see okay thank you so these were a muted crickets uh excellent uh so you probably uh found the media call because you're here the link is on the slides also and uh there are some yeah basically all these links can be found on the data tracker at the material meeting material page so we have a agenda for today um we are in the midst of the uh working group uh sorry of the meeting uh Ministry lab we we settled with a scribe um I already highlighted that we have the spirit over from core um and forever enshrined here is that chairs are only as smart as they can get and I don't know exactly who will be the presenter for the core item but we've scheduled until the bottom of the hour plus maybe five minutes of the image sativa that I just took up um so there's no further Ado who will be presenting on the constraint giant proxy oh it's Michael okay Michael the floor is yours"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "yeah uh did the button where I asked to share work I think you have to prove it let me first remove that one and let me check I don't see a request yet oh my I might have done the exact opposite I will do I have big fingers have a touch screen here so uh close okay um so I'm gonna jump in the middle of the slides and use them as as background more than uh top to bottom these slides I did upgrade load them Hank if you want to put them in the unit somewhere but um um they're from uh July um so um we have the situation um in anima um with our constraint iot onboarding process uh where we have a new device this is diagram is repeated twice here in this page new device which we call the pledge and it reaches out to find a helper node called a join proxy um and uh the join proxy is going to uh transmit the traffic from this clear Network which for which there is no encryption no access control uh selectively onto this protected Network through potentially through other nodes in the middle to what we call a registrar or a jrc join registrar and coordinator coordinator because it does some other other functions in the uh 802 15.4 space as well um so um there's a couple of things that that matter here um let's don't forget don't worry about about the protocol or how it works because they're not relevant for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "this discussion um there's a discovery protocol over here where the P learns about possible JS and there's an also a discovery protocol over here where the JS learn about existence of the RS um and we have three ways we can do this um we can do this with uh grasp which is RFC 8990 um and that's appropriate for some environments and inappropriate for others uh we can do this with mdns um and that works pretty well over here um and works less well over here where it's a multi-hop mesh uh because of of uh certain other attributes but they can be made to work um there and we can do it with Co-op resource Discovery um and which essentially is also multicast uh throughout this network and on this network here okay so uh so far so good it doesn't sound like it's such a big deal um and for the case where this joined proxy is stateful um it's not a big deal because uh the there's simply Discovery and the registrar announces itself um and using the typical Co-op uh uh uh well-known core um and it all makes sense the problem is is that we have a different version of the of the protocol from J to R which is stateless uh when it runs over dtls uh RFC 9031 actually has a version where it's pure Co-op um and where the security which is OS core actually runs above uh the co-op and so you can still do um you can still use What's called the co-op extended token to essentially store the state this guy's State as to which p is which in the network rather than in the ram for the dtls case we have created a new protocol which is a guess what a UDP encapsulated protocol with some co-op in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the middle um and uh do I have a diagram this is what it looks like we changed it from some stuff over here to some stuff over here and uh we basically have this extra bit of of uh of Co-op B string which is this pledge context message and as long as you send it back uh the register sends it back to the join proxy The Joint proxy can decrypt it and extract what was inside of it and figure out where the state is and that's all fine okay except for we get into this question of how does the join proxy discover the location of the registrar and what is the um actual request so uh prior to July we were going to return this as a co-app s um some funny port number here um and we are going to say this resource is an rjp uh type thing so uh this went through the expert reviewer who said um well that's not really correct and we don't really want to do that um so now uh what we've proposed is that this here be replaced uh with a new scheme uh which is Co-op JPY um and uh that will register a new scheme and then you know actually this doesn't belong here at all now um and you have to ask for it somehow so we still get into this question of okay we've asked for this this resource discovery of one particular thing and then we're going to get back something that's not really exactly a co-op resource but rather is a tunnel encapsulation that will get you to that Co-op resource and so the question that we're trying to discuss here is is this kosher"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "um and or is it still kind of gross and we should still do something else right so those are the choices that we discussed in July and we kind of uh well we called Co-op JPY rather than just JPY and so a little bit we're here to discuss whether you have another brilliant idea that we should apply um um for that and I think quite a few people would not like this this item they'd like to have a pure Co-op Discovery mechanism that's really it that was the whole conversation uh that we're trying to get the right people in the room to finalize whether we're okay with Karsten yeah before we actually take the the problem we have um what was the reason why why RFC 8974 is not good enough for carrying this extra context this RFC 8975 extended tokens oh yes the reason why we can't use extended tokens is because the co-op layer um let me just go back to the diagram the co-op s layer goes from The Pledge to the registrar so the joint proxy can't see it it's embedded inside a dtls layer um if if image I've been here um it maybe it helps custom to not think of the join proxy as a proxy in the co-op sense because it is not yeah let's use all those productive properties that are called proxy has okay so so my question really is why isn't it because the dtls layer is outside and it goes from The Pledge to the registrar so we could run the dtls over another Co-op layer okay um and you know what that to me falls in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "the brilliant your brilliant idea here um and we could do that all right um and there's really not much difference between to me to putting a co-op layer there and this JPY layer um there's still some bytes we have to put in uh it's more bites I think uh I don't know exactly how many um probably at least 16 I would think what's this minimum size of a co-op header uh for four bytes so four bytes so we could do co-op plus we could use extended token uh and put our stuff there yeah and that has the advantage of also of also meaning that we now have a mechanism that we've already described in 9031 to do this and quite reasonably the code is probably identical uh for a lot of it um but at the other end you have one end you at the other end you either do OS core or you do dtls and we'd have to have some way to distinguish what's happening um but I'm sure we can find a co-op place to do that in okay I don't really want to design this on the fly during this meeting I was just trying to find out why we have this this additional gtls tunneling a protocol and I think I'm starting to understand why so maybe Esco should make his point before I return to the microphone yeah I think I just wanted to react into the why not use Co-op um so I think for my just mentioned but if you uh use Co-op then typically you would include a URI as well for that so it basically gets uh a lot much larger than if you have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "particular well-known URI for example you get a lot of bytes extra and I think the idea was as small as possible and the other remark is that actually in the open thread implementation of a mesh network uh something similar is used as what we are discussing here and there actually Co-op is used also for the uh yeah let's say the outer layer and and it just transports dtls within the payload in that case so that's also possible but but it was not chosen for this uh particular documents would you repeat sorry just briefly could you repeat what they use Co-op age I didn't get what you said what they use as the outer layer yeah that's simply a co-op protocol um with with a particular URI path that is uh predefined for this purpose so it's like like just plain Co-op basically and the payloads of the co-op is um yeah that contains then the the data that's the dtls data that is being relayed through the network so so uh uh you know we've changed a couple times already I don't have a problem with changing again I guess because I don't have any code written that I have to uh remove um so but to me there's some advantage to doing whatever it is that thread did if if it's easily reusable 90 31 in its mechanism sets the URI path to J okay single letter URL with the URI host option set to sixtish.arpa um so um I think there's space in there to define a very short kind of header"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "um and we could do exactly the same thing and a uripath could set be set to K or whatever it is that you know that would definitely distinguish the two um while allowing you know uh essentially we could reuse the same mechanism and then it really would be a co-op proxy and you're saying that thread is really using it as a co-op proxy no that's not the case no basically it receives the details and then the basically join proxy creates a new uh Co-op message as an endpoint and then sends it to the registrar so when the registrar sends something back so there's not no co-op proxying in that sense no no but we would be doing that's what sixish is doing it's creating a new um oh yeah it's not it's not really it's editing it as it goes through uh six yeah 90 31 is actually editing it but in this case we would be the joint proxy would be doing what thread is doing which is creating a new co-op layer to put the dtls in yeah so I don't know if we want to change that here in this late stage or I mean is there a benefit to changing it to co-op yeah it makes all this problem we're discussing go away because we're actually discovering it we're actually discovering a co-op service and we're actually using the extended token and uh yeah we would be we are kind of replacing one heck by another one so I'm not sure this this is so much uh uh better unless it's really uh Co-op that is going going on well we would be using the extended token we we would be able to navigate through any other Co-op proxies that happen to exist um and um we would you know so and potentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I'm saying what I'm seeing is that potentially you could have a joint proxy that could do thread could do six Tish and could do uh could to do constrained voucher um possibly all at the same time right without a lot of very much code differences at all um for that so that really just seems like a win to me if if the converged if it converges that way so maybe disagree so so maybe Esco Could you um uh perhaps tell the list um what you know point us at the at the thread mechanism and um and see whether we're all pleased by that and if so then uh it seems like that might be the right way to go because I think that it it devolves to what we just said which is that really use Co-op yeah I can uh certainly point to the the source code for that so that's available but not the specification part okay yeah we wouldn't actually have to to nail down the the j or k or so because that could be in the discovery right yes yes it could be in the discovery and that also means the host can pick whatever uh it likes that doesn't conflict with something else so we wouldn't get into the whole well-known uh we have you have to use well known if it's predefined and and in particular the the the the the um the note could easily pick uh pick a dedicated quote and then go with a completely empty URI path that's completely possible and that would again put it back down to those four bytes of difference um maybe five bytes with the extended token but then one of those bytes will also be in the Seaboard representation so are we allowed to have an empty URI host yes yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "okay empty you you wouldn't send it absolutely I mean empty uh non not sent yeah okay I wonder why 9031 felt they had to put that in but I'm not sure anyway or maybe they don't have discovery maybe they don't have discoveries yeah I think they don't have discoveries once you have Discovery you never need to nail down your eyes that sounds like a good resolution to me and um it removes a custom part completely I I think there is one ASP so that it does help on on parts of the discovery aspect because now we do have a resource that we discover for the thing on r that talks this UDP inside something protocol um the part that it does not resolve yet is how this coverage between the pledge and Joint proxy works when the pledge when the pledge discovers that there is a port on the join proxy that is really actually a UDP tunnel uh towards registrar um that's just basically like the pledge has discovered the registrar and and it doesn't know like like for all you know these three three uh things are actually collapsed into a single node and it really can't tell and that's exactly what we're trying to aim for yeah the thing is um the the we might need to put a few constraints on what can be in the discovered content if we as as I understand what the pledge would now do is the Pledge would send a request would establish a details connection to Fe 80 colon colon Something on the link on the local link yeah um requiring of its peer that dtls certificates be presented that make it eligible for being a registrar and sending their own certificates okay yeah so then the pledge sends a get"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "for well-known call to that registrar and we will then have to require that that register only advertise resources in a relative fashion because the Regis yeah what the registrar sees especially if the registrar is distinct from the party that undoes the the statelessness the registrar sees a request to its own IP address to 2001 debate something well-known well-known core and it sends back a response that may or may not encode its full URI and if it doesn't yeah it has to do that on the left and if it does the stuff on the right it's broken right and and basically relative yeah basically it has to know that it's sitting behind a quote very stupid um proxy because it's not even a proxy it's a portfolk order and it has to know that it's sitting behind a port forward it knows this because it comes through dtls so that's okay I mean it can really it can be easily said that that's the case if there's additional layers of proxying then I agree that it could disasters could happen but yeah um technically I think it will know because someone said that it's okay to establish such a tunneling mechanism here but that will be the regular assumption for being on a jrc yep I think we can write text to that effect yeah one thing to keep in mind is that uh what I think uh happens right now is that the pledge will send just a basically uh yeah DT less records in UDP directly to the Joint proxy so it's not encapsulated in anything not in Co-op it isn't even Co-op it's just a dtls record UDP message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "and then the proxy basically forwards that encapsulated in something and gets the response back and then sends it back as a pure dtls record uh to the pledge so that's what you have now so I think we want to keep it that way right so we don't want to necessarily require s go up there we're not changing that part that we're not changing that part this this dotted line over here looks like a co-op s and we're not changing that it it yeah it this guy sees uh Port you know probably 56.83 um a dtls connection and that's all yeah that's that's good but um I think what we did not have there is uh yeah for the discovery part at least we did not advertise a particular resource here we say only say there's Co-op s and it's at this joint port and it has a resource type and for the rest there do not need to be any resources in that Discovery because the pledge already knows the resources they are well known so they don't need to be advertised maybe it's good to put section six to one on the screen for a moment so that's where the you know Discovery happens uh by The Pledge I don't think I don't think I have that um Milton slice no okay then we tell them I could pull it up if you want uh so so I'm gonna I'll write some text uh Esco I'm going to ask you to review it and we're gonna bring this to the anima and core working groups next week next month and um that'll be like our you know consensus this you know I hope well it'll be for final objections only the word smithing or something great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "okay good so um thank you all um I'm going to reach what we have here on the and this is again I always have to refresh apparently okay every time refresh times I'm going back to this chest lights just to um show them once again and go to the agenda real quick I should be okay this is just very slow okay um so we have been going through that so uh thanks car attendees for uh being so patient with us and uh thanks iot Ops then the experience a patient with Corey for this uh combined uh joint meeting time the next item on the agenda is actually the first item that is a candidate for adoption iot Ops we are talking about a lot of onboarding mechanisms in the last year we have isolated and interesting um Gap I think and there is one draft that is currently illustrating that Gap to some extent that could be the basis for a Doctrine we want to adopt and Foster an iot of to make that the first document you can look at and understand where is what in the ietf and what work could be done here additionally and what is already addressed and I think more um Brenton that's you up next yes I think that is me up next"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "okay let me try to give you please I can hear well so that's a good thing uh no that's not what I want to do and this is now oh the tablet this is always a few more clicks I'm almost almost there here we go okay so I have um renamed this uh the last time that I presented it Michael had some comments about the name so there there's a new name we'll see if that's any better uh next slide please um I'm not trying to define a normative draft um this is essentially going to be informational uh not not normative requirements probably a landing pad that the question is who is this actually for next please so I don't think that we're looking for a a draft for implementers and I don't think that uh that Library authors are going to read this I think they would read the normative drafts instead some oems which could be implementers I suppose will likely want to know which drafts to use how to find the libraries they need and find solutions to the problems that they have end users are almost certainly not going to look at this and operators might want to know what to ask oems for so there might be an element of uh of compliance checking uh from it departments and things like that as well next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "well um I know that there are varied opinions about uh Anisa but their Baseline security recommendations for iot is pretty good and their take on audience I thought was probably you know a not a bad parallel to what we probably need next slide please um so I think that there's a gap in the ITF um and that is we don't have a baseline security recommendations draft at least not that I've discovered there are a lot of drafts maybe I missed one Anisa's Baseline uh is is pretty good as I said but it's a bit old now and there are some some Modern threats that it doesn't address and as a result it is missing remote attestation and confidential Computing I think those are critical for the iot and for the internet moving forward so I think that those two elements on their own May well justify us producing our own draft um rather than just referencing one that exists I think we may well need to produce our our own um we could reshape the the draft that I've already written and and make it a directly a map of Baseline security recommendations to ietf Technologies and and that's probably worthwhile on its own um there are other documents that we should review but I want to crowdsource identification and review of other Baseline requirements so if uh if you have a particular one you think should be reviewed please bring it to the list next slide please so the ones that I'm aware of already are the Anisa the Etsy and the nist Baseline recommendation drafts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "um I think that there are likely more out there next slide please so the Anisa's Baseline document as an example gives you a sort of a fuzzy iot architecture and and that makes sense you don't want to be too prescriptive about this um it's more a question of establishing terminology that we use throughout the rest of it and there are a lot of standard setting organizations have an iot architecture document of some kind I have seen a few sort of cursory attempts at this in the ietf there's probably something out of chord that comes close to this but I don't think I've spotted it yet um if we don't have one that would match this kind of thing we probably need to either reference one or produce one uh next uh so then the next thing is a survey of common Assets in iot systems and uh I mean this is the foundations for building a threat model we need the assets so that we can build the threat model um there there are probably some pointers to methodologies for identifying more assets since we can never hope to have an exhaustive list um what's really missing and oh sorry there's also uh risks and threats to iot systems and uh the draft that um the the iot Nets draft that I've uh submitted is uh it has a lot of this kind of content uh common risks and threats to iot systems uh it doesn't point to methodologies for identifying more risks and threats so maybe that's an area that could be expanded um but what Anisa's Baseline document is missing that I think we really need is ietf protocols and technologies that mitigate the risks and threats and that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "is the primary content or the purpose of the content in my iot Nets draft next slide please so if we do go through writing a baseline requirements document we need to convey that this is all real uh there this is not a thought experiment about things that might happen this is what will happen these threats are real they do exist and they're you know this you know there this is something that has to be taken seriously um Anisa in an attempt to make that point uh backed up pretty much everything with examples of real attacks and I think that's an interesting approach I'm not sure that's appropriate in the ietf but it it does make the point pretty effectively on top of that there's also the the move towards legislation so there's of course the the national cyber security uh sorry National Security memorandum on cyber security uh that came up not so long ago and and that's moved things forwards a bit and in the UK there's the DCM masses call for reviews on or sorry call for views on the cons consumer connected product cyber security uh that's uh it hasn't moved into legislation yet but you know it when the when a government department is exploring What legislation is needed um it's kind of a hint that there might be headed in that direction at some point so that is another example where legislators are are moving towards this next slide please um so Baseline requirements are great I've already mentioned we're missing pointers to uh technologies that provide those requirements um but there's always the question of you know if you start with Baseline requirements I mean that's fine but if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "you want to go the extra mile and produce you know something high security rather than Baseline security what do you do next and I think that's another area where we've got an opportunity to say you know there's the Baseline and if you want to raise the bar also do this so there's some examples that we could probably use out of technologies that improve past the Baseline and I think this would be a good environment for setting up that kind of a landing pad um as I mentioned we have a threat to draft mapping in iot Nets and I think that's useful even outside the context of Baseline security requirements so that's that's my um that's my pitch for why we should adopt it even if we don't produce a baseline security requirement document it's still useful as a threat to draft mapping and I think that's still a useful thing to do next slide please so um if if I had my uh ideal way that this uh this working group progressed I I would expect that we probably need um a new Baseline recommendation draft um I think that that's one of the things that's missing in the ietf today uh I think that we might need to do a little bit of architecture uh terminology work but that's that's it I'm not sure about that one I I would welcome input um the mapping for prominent drafts I think is is essentially where I want to go with iot Nets um should the question is should we adopt it and would this work help us to identify any gaps and and produce an engine for producing uh future work and and areas of protocol to explore since we may not have covered them yet uh there we are uh that's that's where I am with the iot Nets Draft today and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "I guess that's raises a whole pile of questions so um go ahead Michael you are first in queue so hi um uh I guess what I'm hearing is that and I haven't read the Anisa document but um I'm hearing that this is actually a kind of a road map document to uh the different protocols that we have um and I think that's actually a really useful thing and from uh um from an outsider looking into the ietf um you know we have not done our iot stuff in a particular place um and so I think that's particularly useful to do now this is very much security related um and um so for instance I think that while we think of software update as being a security thing I don't know that the rest of the industry necessarily does um and so I think that we should think a little bit about um some other pointers that might uh we might not think of it as a security so for instance connections to some of the elwig stuff um 7228 for terminology um I'm okay if we produce a document which essentially has uh a bunch of pointers to other things as to what is the current state of the art for this and um and I'm also okay if we if our document actually just you know if this Anisa document has really good actual threats uh that we assuming it's easily readable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "um uh that you know we actually refer to it directly that would be fine with me yeah I think um I'm quite happy to refer to another document if there's uh if there's adequate content in it I'm what I am finding to be a problem with the Anisa document today is that it is five years old now it was released in 2017 and that's okay but remote attestation and confidential Computing hadn't really started to take off at that point and the result of that is that they don't really make mention of it and I think that moving forward is a bit of a problem because those are foundational Technologies now uh sorry notwithstanding that there's still a nist document that I need to review um and an Etsy document well sorry that we need to review and an Etsy document that we need to review and maybe between the three of them there's something that is you know more complete um the Anisa document is reasonably consumable it's written in pretty plain language and the difficulty I have with it is that it is a hundred pages long and um getting through all of it is time consuming and not that we're going to do better I suspect it'll be worse I know so this is hang um I want to want to ask one question with no hats so would that also acts that you were mentioning uh remote at the station confidential Computing Etc would that also extend to a more more broader Concepts like zero trust architectures is that already mentioned in deniza based on I haven't been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "through the whole thing cover to cover so I'm I I'm not able to confidently say whether or not it does I'm I'm still working my way through a review of that document if not um I think positioning um some iitf work in that I don't want to call it a buzzword but let's call it a domain of perception would also be useful but um but what I heard is that um they also the the Nissa document is big and and also about readability and one of the chat comments here is that um well the thread labeling like threat.net.acl.broad is also not very readable I I understand that there seems to be some some taxonomy here uh in the naming convention but um but I think the the comments in chat are are valid so so would you uh think that addressing that kind of threat taxonomy in a more readable way would be part of the work yes I think that um taking taking uh Michael's comments um in his review uh that he presented at uh 114. absolutely we need to revisit how the iot Nets draft is is written the taxonomy maybe doesn't need to be part of the titles and and maybe there needs to be a taxonomy used separately or identified separately um maybe the taxonomy is not relevant um at all and can just be dropped I'm happy with with whatever feedback is is available on that um my inclination was to leave um some feedback sorry some taxonomy in there so that we can sort of think about what applies to networks what applies to end devices you know which which libraries are threats relevant against things like that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "so I can see why there might be some need to uh to refine that a bit um I just haven't done that work yet and that could be working group work so um everybody who's here in the room um I would like to pose another question what I heard is we have two things actually we have the threat model that that that's kind of generic and probably we can we don't have to start at zero with that and then we have the Baseline document that would refer to the ietf building blocks so do you brand would you um Envision this as as one document or would it be better to disentangle that maybe because if you would drop um our own taxonomy we could just inherit it from somewhere else so and that would that work would reside in a non-published ID in the end where we experiment with that and the Baseline draft is basically the the intended output that was is more more set in stone more more guaranteed is that a way forward or how would you um assume that would work out uh I I don't have any assumptions on that um I think that it would be I mean I'm happy with whatever the it is the the best result for the working group I'm not you know tied to making sure this is adopted as long as the the mapping comes out I think that the mapping is the important part um and the Baseline security recommendations are probably important too but there are a few copies of those already floating around in Industry um I think it's useful for us to uh to have a bit of ietf specific recommendation and I think the other thing uh is that the you know a lot of them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "we're not sitting still and a lot of the other ones are fairly static they haven't been updated in the last no however many years um I think that if substantial new uh Technologies come out in the ietf I suspect we will update this so I see the the you know the prospect of being a semi-living document being useful okay I see that Elliot runs the queue just go ahead uh good morning good afternoon um good evening to some um I agree with uh Brendan that this is going to be a living document and to prove the point um I don't know about this idea but probably next to ITF um we'll be introducing some capability into skim uh for doing iot onboarding um specifically device onboarding so I expect it would join the list so I like the idea of a living a living document whether that's a draft a web page or what have you I don't have a particularly strong view um but uh I think we should keep in mind they're going Brendan's points exactly correct so when we talk about provisioning there for instance while there's work going on in the ietf and EST we've already done work in um uh enu for this in two different forms uh that we might want to listen to and um one of which is uh Noob and the other watch is tip tip has the same provisioning functions as uh EST only at L2 the only difference being everybody actually wrote the darn code which is sort of annoying the crap out of me in terms of provision I'm gonna go fix that and then probably come up with an updated on that thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "so quickly looking at the chat um so I know that we are now relatively um small subset of the typical iitfinity group but uh just just to to help me a little bit see uh chair to to assess the room I tried to phrase a raised hand thing and and that is absolutely of course first of all not binding of Representative just to get a feeling for the for the virtual room here um I would press the start essentially I edited this twice so probably there's a spelling error now in that um I'll try to uh to raise hand if because sometimes it's really not easy to understand when you want to have a razor hand um so um foreign I will not be able to see anything I think of until oh I've had scroll down I can see something okay yeah I'm using this from a tablet sharing from a tablet is an interesting experience I can tell everybody who wants to share and meet Echo uh maybe don't give this another five to ten seconds roadmap there but yeah yeah yeah see you're correct I don't I actually I actually would like to keep it at Baseline and mapping road map always implies that we know what we're going to do next and I I'm not inclined to ask for do we want to put flan into a text form here okay in the English sense um but when I buy a roadmap in in a store that usually does not tell me how the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "the roads will look like in 10 years that they showed the rules right oh the landscape okay I I see where you're going with this okay so that's so that's it describes things as they were when the pup Map was published yes and it's they're often wrong but as long as roads aren't deleted uh they are still a good it's still a good resource I I think so too so uh I think the the the two takeaways that we have here is that yes we should talk about this definitely there is some value perceived in the subset of attendees here um so Brandon um that unfortunately means a few action items AKA work um could you please recap the um threat model Baseline mapping items on the list in the concise message so that we can then uh talk about uh uh and then ask basically for adoption so we can have a discussion on an adoption call uh before um um I don't know if we can do an adoption call before the idea actually but but we could start one in in uh and so that we can have a healthy discussion on the list before then would that be comfortable would you would you would you be comfortable with that so let me make sure I understand this correctly the the ask is to um make the point that the the draft I've written is a starting point for a map of um a map of threats and use cases to ietf drafts that deal with them and that's useful and we should adopt that um yes no so yeah that would be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "minimal thing to do but I think that's not what we want to work uh on only as as far as I understood it now so I think the the work is to uh to um use the example to provided for Baseline documents from uh in east side cnist I have remember correctly um and and I understand what their structure is to to condense them down into uh either our own translated threat model or a referenced a reference system to their threat models and and taxonomies and then do the mapping to the iatf building blocks which ultimately would steer also in future work because some things might not be mappable and expose gaps and and items that we want to work on so but that's that's my my some here would you agree with that okay I I understand what you're asking for now yes when you say some work that is a bit of an understatement Hank that is a pretty large project I would appreciate any contribution that anyone else is willing to provide okay what what so you said your item is sculpt already of course um so what would you would you ask for adoption of your item and then put this to the working group and see how we can um um interest other parties to have other YouTubers or do you want to uh add a a score by yourself um and when asking for adoption so I I think that this is um I think I would prefer to adopt first and then uh you know gather a few more authors and and see what we can do at that point that that would be my preference if that's not what's going to happen that's okay I'll I'll do my best but um I'm not sure that I can get like not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "sure that I can do a good treatment of all three of those documents in the time available before the submission deadline oh no not the submission deadline that that is not the problem so I think um the the important thing here is to discuss this until um and and and in London we're not under any pressure of of having an adoption call here I think the more important thing is to have a healthy discussion so that people aware of this and then have a good uh meeting session and from that point on I think uh adoption can be steered pretty easily so that would be my recommendation and but I would always highlight if you put something to the list that we are planning for adoption and that the last interim there was a um 12 to 2 uh um hand-raised thing that will be in the minutes I'll refer to the minutes uh that is it seems to be a good idea that's why we are now uh um pondering that uh plan so when we adopt something um automatically your message is sent to a new work mailing list that goes to other sdos and so on um and I think that we should really think about this this uh the gating function of adoption here as as a way to indicate to other people that this work is being started and that the igf is interested in in getting some some work done there so I I wouldn't wait until the the document is super wonderful um of course if the the document is misleading to uh stos as to what kind of work we are trying to do here that's also not good uh but we we shouldn't fine tune the document repeatedly until we finally adopt it fine-tuning is is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "for for working group work yeah so Carson would you have an opinion on uh uh the time of adoption call because personally I would feel more comfortable with having this agreed on a second basically at the uh at the meeting while having the discussion on the list until the meeting which is probably like a month or something and so uh so what would that sound like a good time frame for our discussion and then call it well we're having a meeting so uh uh I think we we have all we need to to decide here what we don't have is a version of the document that really announces the the direction we seem to be picking up uh so what uh I think we really want is a new revision of that document that that doesn't magically do all the work that's of course impossible um but that is uh more indicative as to what what we are now trying to achieve with this uh document and uh I I uh what optimistically think that this actually can be uh done before the 24th um so that would be a great basis for actually starting an adoption uh call before IHF then we can still discuss the results of that call at iitf excellent okay um so uh Brenton I see some support on the chats so maybe have a look at that so you're not alone and I also think that other participants here uh will comment and contribute so would you be comfortable to trying to remold um the existing ID to capture the goals at least the the the the path forward uh before they cut off and because 24th by the way in October is cut off day so that's why this is the deadline yes um so I think uh that I could sort of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "restructure the document a little bit to say these are some of the Baseline security documents that already exist and but they don't tell us which Technologies to use to fill these gaps here are a list of technologies that fill some of the gaps and and maybe that will help us find some of the missing bits as well um I think I could probably do that reasonably easily we can sort of Park the threat model that I put in there for the moment if we're taking that approach because I'm not sure how much it overlaps with what's already there um and then that could be a question perhaps that winds up in a different document in the future that's fine okay are you incubating that on a GitHub repository there's some uh I can't remember Maybe okay because I think um getting help and and getting this more visible uh GitHub would help yes and uh and and and and and just not only just highlighting the goals that you have with the IDE uh would help people here in the chat to to uh maybe on board with that work and and then have you um I'm getting the the initial stuff done um uh for for the uh um cut off date and Michael no I don't think we have a GitHub organization yet that's an excellent point uh because we don't written have had documents yet I think um so I would initially would put that in the uh in the GitHub in the in the individual realm of of of uh participants here but I can also in parallel find out um how to get the IIT Ops iot apps GitHub organization okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "so are there any more comments on the plan or are there uh um like say concerns the way forward we just highlighted here if that is not the case I can give you a lot of all respect because I think we discussed agenda item two or three also now um which is oh there's Michael in the queue so isn't there this report we're supposed to do for the iesg um yeah we did that in the case of that we reported through the IDS um but we did not create a document for that but I think um this um activity right now could be an update to that and we can we could phrase it in an document format um but we did not write an ID based LED uh framed um report the last time so um so that's um that's something but I think you're correct uh this activity on the list could be we could summarize as chairs uh for the isg again but I think there's no um how you call it there's no template for that because I think that that's not been done before I'm looking at the check right now well I'm just thinking so maybe you should just share whatever you said to the chairs with the working group as a email then what what we could do is we can we can summarize the the the state of the affairs up to this date and and put that to the list that that would be absolutely fine I think okay I just I just understood that we were in risk of being de-chartered if we didn't do this soon uh well we we we we were the last ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "meeting we had a at least Alexa and I what was the the 80s but lxa might have something to say about that also um yeah I think we need to check with uh our AG that yeah uh but the last time quite positive so yeah I didn't think we we need to write something but I don't think we've had much Cycles to actually do anything yeah but but yeah absolutely uh that's a good point to be transparent on reporting about this is fine but but to some extent all the recordings minutes and and threat and that visible list activity is is this report to some extent but we can we can uh provide a summary and and we could provide it in a written form but but what exactly format it is we have to check with with our IDs again and I'm sure there are lots of area directors on IHG who who would like to know but not necessarily paying attention on a daily basis so I think some summary would be nice sure let's let's target that for the cutoff I think that's a good thing okay well thank you Michael for bringing that up I was not aware that there's uh there was perceived as missing and thank you Brandon I was looking at the chat for um getting a GitHub repo for that individual um ID started again in parallel we will uh check for creation of an iot Ops GitHub organization having said all that is sorry is there are there other other comments open someone wants to go to the mic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:06",
    "text": "doing once going twice that's not the case we can give you a lot of time back we have a few action items done uh we will continue the discussion on the list and thank you for attending thanks everyone thank you all"
  }
]
