[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:40",
    "text": "okay so since we have a pretty packed agenda I\u0027m gonna get us started given that it\u0027s Monday you might not have seen the note well please note it well you\u0027ll see it throughout the week it\u0027s worth reading we will need a minute taker and a job ascribe do we have any volunteers for Jabba scrubbing first okay Thank You Linda does anyone is anyone happy to be Java scribe there we go thank you very much thank you to our minute takers and thank you to our grabbers great so the first thing you want to kind of to cover is a quick update on the the Charter we discussed it on the list we\u0027ve discussed it at the last meeting and the number of meetings before that we called rough consensus around the text that we posted on the list with the the updates that we\u0027ve made you can see it at the the URL there it\u0027s currently an IAS to review where we deliberately aim to focus that on things that were making spring technology deployable I think we\u0027ve got a bunch of the old documents around that we\u0027ve worked on for some time where there\u0027s some operational considerations that we need to make sure that we that we cover and and cover some of the gaps before moving on to other things so there\u0027s been the aim of the Charter to break down into those we have as a working group a bunch of things that are ongoing we still have documents that are somewhat dated that need to get through through the the standardization process so for example the SR MPLS document still has some some knits that need to be to be dealt with we have a number of considerations around SR v6 there\u0027s still a significant number of Kentucky concerns be around it for example and one of the blocks that was raised against the Charter was actually on this subject so I think this is some area that we need to we need to have some focus on in the group and then we have other supporting technologies so some of which we\u0027ll talk about today there om mechanisms for for SR in general and then young models supporting the kind of protocol independent parts of the parts of the configuration and telemetry for sr3 considerations that like folks that are working on drafts to to look at we we have an interesting balance in spring between documenting use cases and in kind of functional specs given that we\u0027ve got so many kind of parallels with other working groups so I think we need to make sure that the documents that we\u0027re producing or somewhat have the right balance between explaining a use case and the functional specification we\u0027d like people to think about whether collaboration with other working groups is required and ideally which working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:41",
    "text": "groups because we\u0027ve got a number of documents where you know you\u0027ll see from the agenda there\u0027s overlap with say SFC or there\u0027s overlap with the the data plane technology groups so we really should make sure that we\u0027re identifying those working groups early and engaging with the relevant experts in those teams and then the one thing we I could kind of note about a number of our Doc\u0027s at the moment is that they end up being stored for quite a long time about whilst waiting for addressing open comments so really I think we need to make sure that we have sufficient time and we\u0027re not buying off too many different things to actually get things through the standardization process so we have some other notes on the agenda you will have seen from the the males on list and there\u0027s a number off list that we always end up with a very packed agenda I think we\u0027d like to start setting some some expectations as to like what gets onto the gently agenda and so we make the best use of the fact everyone\u0027s saying in the same place we\u0027ve we\u0027ve had a few drafts which you\u0027ve had discussion on the list but we we continue to get you know kind of place all the drafts or drafts that don\u0027t have any any discussion on the list then submit for an agenda slot please try and make send a mail to the list have it more than his des forwarded draft submission announcement it would be good to highlight what decisions and discussion points there need to be a further draft and I think we\u0027ll try and bias towards things getting onto the agenda based on having that had some of that discussion and being able to address some of those decision and discussion points as you\u0027ve probably aware there\u0027s a an experiment around the agenda and slots for ITF 103 so that\u0027s going to mean that we also continue to have this problem so the the discussion that we\u0027re trying to air bias towards in the agenda today and I think going forward like figure out some of these discussions on the near term milestones make sure they\u0027re concluded and then to start to socialize new work there has overlaps with with other working groups so it\u0027s been raised on the list so here is our agenda for today just as a point about you the packed agenda means you\u0027ll often get like a slot that\u0027s almost too short to deal to present in so I think if folks who are submitting drafts it\u0027s really useful not to have had the discussion on the list such that we don\u0027t have to use the time slot to go through to go through existing existing material and then there\u0027s a couple of things that we couldn\u0027t find time for on the agenda there\u0027s these two drafts in particular there\u0027s an SR mps multicast framework draft and that\u0027s going to be presented in PIM and then is a update for the bgp signal desu our policy for both the being and the young model that are there going to be an idea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:41",
    "text": "yes Jeff okay so that was Jeff concerned so that the multicast traffic is also being presented in RTG gg so in terms of progress of document we have the architecture document which is in RFC editor state and most specifically I was 48 so we have all autos final we waiting for the final go from GED for algae pintura it\u0027s currently now ESG evaluation and there was one blocking comment is being resolved so what is a new graph should be published this week in term of MSD see it\u0027s also in is G evaluation there are comments a blocking comment regarding the interaction between network and TCP who would like the others to to to to react faster but as of today I think the ball is in the is G reeling the MPs working document so it\u0027s under working of last column where a number of comments us thank you for all the people we met commands we are waiting for the orders to reply to all the commands so there is at least one command which is not addressed and we more and also we are waiting for to contribute ease contributors to reply to arrive here and finally we have a new working on document which is a spring Sigma routine place which has been adopted so the solemn customs individualize a young believer yeah hello everyone my name\u0027s engine I\u0027m here to present an update of the segment 13th down model so it has been I think almost two years since we did a present update of this model and feature wise this model is very stable has been very stable and we can make many changes so this one shows the overall tree architecture of this model just to refresh everybody\u0027s memory if you are interested "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:41",
    "text": "so what\u0027s defined mainly in this model we have the second route in global block the sRGB so it\u0027s about global configuration this one I want to stress this one is the base model for segment routing we do have the protocol dependent model the OSPF signaling and ISS said Marilyn that defines the purple part in those two several models so this one defines other protocol independent parameters srgb and we have the vertical srgb configuration does that as a feature so if you support you have a very specific just say you have iodized use a specific clock you can do that same for this one we have the local block configuration that\u0027s the local state names we have the maximum state taps at my speed definition so with support no configuration of my recipe also links and decoration so link we have a list of the interface that you have configuration unlink I must be otherwise you use the note MSB we also have some notifications that\u0027s supported in this model so one thing to notice is we have the transfer type defined in this model from the very beginning cuz we have e this model mainly defines the MPs it applying so how the ipv6 transport um define in this one I say identity um I know the I sorry six model is defined in a separate draft so I think we either use this one as the base one it\u0027s the base model so I serve a six and two icer v6 model can augment this model oh we can totally separate them so that\u0027s I guess up to the working groups consensus so considering this model here IC is already completed and there has been stable with like two on if you have some con lines they see the opportunity to say it and then we like to start the yellow to reveal and after because all the segments out in imperative in Java in either in last in the final stage all in pretty much close to Alaska so and then we were last call this data model so that\u0027s it any questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:48",
    "text": "okay so please a broken reader will stop the last caller soon actually we\u0027ll ask for a young doctor with you before we lose it so for the common data types or segments outing do you put it in this one or do you have in common routing young modern if you look at a draft it actually consists two models one is defined in just the basic types so other modules can you can impart and then the other is just the specific they said Marat in configuration Parker\u0027s the PCE physical those particles also use the base basic part so if you have a name if you look at something you have different requirements I guess not yeah sure yeah that\u0027s what I was thinking Justin so those number of sorry young models that don\u0027t reference this work and this is just incorrect the initial idea was to have the base types here and then reference them from other drops and you see number of models and crazy and there\u0027s no really here in between please take a look and reference to have proper structure in place you have if you\u0027re defining a data model in routing area we have the resulting type first now why that\u0027s already an RFC that defines a lot of basics types like a router IP vector that you can reference and this one also has a separate module four basic configure are the groupings so you can use for second or out in configuration so if you are defining anything or augmenting anything inside morality you can reference this model kitten hi kitten drought Kate ontological from Cisco and doing an update on SR policy drafts we\u0027ll start with the segment routing policy which was adopted by the working group so the key update was this the adoption call was started after the last IETF and poster call version 5 of the document was adopted there were several comments and inputs received during the IETF and also during the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:50",
    "text": "working group an option call the major change was that this document was reorganized and the folk the focus was to progress the core SR policy framework and other topics were moved to separate documents and we\u0027ll look at what those things besides this there are also minor changes to clarify some detail correct and improve the text based on the comments and feedback so this is an overview of how the original document has been reorganized so we have the draft idea of segment routing policy this remains and covers the core SR policy architecture there is this draft SR policy consideration which now has text mainly from the appendix section and plus a few other texts from the word from the 0-5 version what discovers is really the some of the employee implementation and deployment aspects related to SR policy we\u0027ll talk about it in the next presentation and the third part which was all the traffic counters SR counters related content which was 16 a section 13 in the 0-5 version that\u0027s been put in this other draft which would also be covered later today so this draft that\u0027s our policy architecture draft now focuses on really these aspects so there is a policy framework and how the information model how it is structured basically the candidate path segment list and all of that it also defines the segment routing database or what all information could be there in the segment routing database and used for SR policy there is a list of segment types that can be used in the policy this is the currently defined segment types it also talks about validation of candidate paths and selection tiebreaking to select the best or the active candidate path the binding said concept and its usage and there are different modes in which it can be used there also discussed and covered in this document the other key piece is that the steering mechanisms into and SR policy there are three or four different ways in which this could be done and all of that are covered in this so do there are those sections remain in this document there was some text related to protection and PIL FA that has been improved and some more concepts added there just to cover the in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:52",
    "text": "architecture so so this is fairly mature draft because been a lot of comments and inputs from the working group multiple vendors and operators as well so and this is being updated based on clarifications from both implementation and deployment or and trial experiences since this is the architecture there is the other aspects of it like signaling for example BGP Authority there is a yang model coming up with it I am so all of those are being progressed or worked on and different documents so this document really focuses on the core SR policy framework now so this is just an update a welcome review and more inputs and comments from working any questions I\u0027m Anderson from Nokia the latest draft reference is about using PC initiated to deploy a circuit policy but I haven\u0027t seen any drafts or extensions for pieces up to do this so is there any talking about how we\u0027re gonna map an SRT policy with color and multiple candidates said lists to the P set messaging yes I believe there is some work going on on that but you\u0027re right it\u0027s not yet been posted but it\u0027s expected to be posted soon right now the coverage I think it\u0027s covered in the BGP SRT context but a piece of part is you know you have to be added I think yeah maybe through has better throw from Huawei so we have a one document which talks about how do we associate various s our thoughts into anis our policy so we we have the document it\u0027s in the PC working group and I will give a very brief introduction in the in the P sub association like the group of drafts that we have which talks about hyssop association object so that\u0027s one of the things thank you thanks so the open version of the drafts has a text relating to symbolic names that can be associated with the policy is with the appropriate vgb draft also the extended to send those names yes it\u0027s been ecstatic version of the PGP has been extended so it\u0027s the symbolic name for must not be used for mapping yes so the thing I think the point there is that the name is not a unique identifier because the identifier is are different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:53",
    "text": "but sure I mean implementation can use it it\u0027s just that information modern the index the name cannot be a unique identifier that\u0027s what it since it\u0027s not actually map based on should it wanted to play services for example so you\u0027re saying the name is not unique name may not be it need not be unique because the wait signal let\u0027s say a piece F or BGP SRT that name is really not a key so you know it is possible that you could its name is an attribute in those signaling and that\u0027s the reason why this clarification thank you for improving all the documents kicked in I\u0027m so there\u0027s two hairs well we um for you Andrew are you going to harmonize the BGP stuff with the piece of stuff I can take it offline but you mean you need to sort of cycle on it thank you hi so this is the as our policy considerations which covers the texture which was previously there in the appendix section so the draft ITF spring segment routing 0/0 version was posted identical to the 0-5 which was adopted by the working group so this is really the appendix section 14 from that document this is an informational draft the contents here and there have been minor changes to clarify and improve the text based on the feedback and comments so what\u0027s really covered in this document is there is a SR policy head end reference architecture this identifies really various components and their interaction so we have this SR policy module which learns as our policy candidate paths from various signaling protocols we have BGP SRT we have P SEP local configuration all of these and then there is the SR policy database that is built up from signaling protocols like a GPU BGP LS so the the interworking or information flow or how what parts of functionality is implemented or may be implemented in one area component or the other is what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:54",
    "text": "really clarified or covered in this document it describes there\u0027s our policy dynamic path computation this is really highlighting some key aspects of the computation so that we leverage the segment routing concepts like you know taking care of ensuring maximum ecmp you know taking care of said lists or set constraints in the computation and there are various optimization objectives and constraints that are talked about this is again mainly information on things then the SR policy architecture draft talks about the candidate path and tiebreaker rules but this document really has the examples which you indicate how Hadden would choose based on different paths with different attributes coming from different protocol sources so those examples are covered here so that it\u0027s a better reference for implementation the document also talks about the distributed and centralized control plane and you know the use cases which need centralized computation some use cases which can be done entirely in a distributed manner and others where a mix of both can be used there are certain aspects of binding sets and use cases which are also described here I mean how binding sites could be discovered how bindings it from srl B can be used for SR policies where you need some sort of a persistency or like a well known binding set and then there are a few other as use cases that are covered like for example that is flex algo there is some information about how optical or any general layer to interface could be modeled as a segment it points to other documents like there is a draft onion spring SRP is our which really talks about there\u0027s our policy Nachtigal domain so that\u0027s in a covered in detail covered in the separate document but this has a reference to that the objective of this draft was to really document the implementation and aspects in experience and have some reference framework which can be used when describing the functionality in example in a bgp SRT document so like what part of the functionality belongs to let\u0027s say the PGP protocol and what part of it should be done in a SR policy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:55",
    "text": "module that we are talking about and then there are really the deployment aspects and use cases which is also covered here so the content is already familiar because all of it was part of the original 0 5 version of the draft which was adopted by the working group it\u0027s fairly mature in that sense that\u0027s been stable for some time but based on updates and comments feedback it\u0027s you know being updated so at this point would like to request for working group adoption for this draft open its since it\u0027s already the contents have been already through the previous last call it should be and yeah expect new comments updates a please share with us any questions or comments so I have some comments I think there\u0027s a few challenges we\u0027re getting this drafted adopted and particularly because if you look at a bunch of its kind of local to node implementation detail so you know how you should split functionality across different software modules not all of which exist in all implementations is kind of an interesting question as to whether we we should include that in a draft in the working group the others have considerations you\u0027ll go when we did the policy draft adoption there was some discussion with tease about what what constitutes traffic engineering and what constitutes traffic steering and so there was a deliberate split there right to be able to try and have the SRT work because kind of exists as a steering mechanism and not the path computation part given that this document talks a bunch about path computation I think it needs to have some collaboration with T\u0027s and we need to discuss exactly how that fits together so I think we probably need to go through those discussions before we can kick off an adoption call sure so on the on the on the hair and architecture yeah it\u0027s a reference it does not exactly need to be done that really improvement but it\u0027s more of a conceptual the example that I gave is for example s our policies received on a node by a BGP then certain clarity or information about what part constitutes the BGP processing and what\u0027s let\u0027s say the s our policy processing that clarity I\u0027m not saying that the content is not useful I think it\u0027s just the way it\u0027s written right now it\u0027s of the block diagrams you\u0027ve got a very specific to that where words I think you could call out look this is this functionality that you have there\u0027s this other set functionality here\u0027s how they interact his what here\u0027s what BGP will do for you anyway here\u0027s what what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:56",
    "text": "will be done I think there\u0027s some there\u0027s not impossible restructuring that would make it less implementation specific yeah I mean definitely welcome on the computation it doesn\u0027t really cover the algorithm as such it\u0027s more clarifies the next is a segment routing specific aspects of it yeah but sure maybe I would say that it\u0027s it\u0027s quite a gray area as to whether what it covers is even really a cell specific there are some s are specific things in there in terms of you know this is how you might you might go from the set set paths but if you start talking about here\u0027s how to compute a path that has Lincoln like missus link affinity then the overlap with well we didn\u0027t ever write a similar doc ferrand for CSP f4 for rsvp-te like do we do we need a dog I think we should have these discussions show whether it\u0027s a useful thing to have mr. Legendre what is it Jim Jim good afternoon everyone Jim Gish art from Huawei I just wanted to do a very brief introduction to a draft that I put together with a bunch of co-authors that are shown on from page here the reason that we started to so so the basic intentions of this draft were I felt there was a lot of confusion between the work that we\u0027ve been doing in the SFC working group for service chaining and some proposals that have been put forward for segment routing to do service chaining and I heard a lot of talk about well they\u0027re competing technologies but the reality is they\u0027re really not they\u0027re complementary so what I wanted to do was basically describe two application scenarios that show how the network service header that we\u0027ve been developing in the SFC working group can actually work together with segment routing and basically what we wanted to do was maintain the original intent of the SFC architecture which was to separate the service plane from the transport so there\u0027s two scenarios described in the draft the first one is where the nsh encapsulation just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:56",
    "text": "basically uses segment routing as a transport so if you\u0027re not familiar with what we\u0027ve done in SFC the the encapsulation was built specifically so that it could work with any transport so we didn\u0027t care whether it was VX LAN or GRE or MPLS or any of the different transports we wanted it to be independent of that and this scenario maintains that by allowing NSH to be carried underneath segment routing whether it be SR MPLS or SR v6 the second scenario shows how you could actually integrate the two things so segment routing we build a segment list with services as part of the segment list and then nsh is simply used as a mechanism to identify which segment stacks should be pushed back onto the packet when it comes back from the services so this allows us to remove all of the VLANs and other types of mekinese that you would need between the forwarder and the service function and just use the NS H as a as a way to identify which which context we\u0027re in and therefore push on the right segment stay there next slide please so this is a just a very quick picture we described this in the draft it just shows s are being used as a transport tunnel between two data centers where I\u0027m using SFC encapsulation in the data centers and then I want to do some kind of traffic engineering between and therefore I can just push nsh SR on top of an SH our next slide that we what we\u0027ve tried to do with each application scenario in the draft is show the stated benefits I\u0027m not going to read through all of these you can read them for yourselves and they\u0027re in the draft but we\u0027ve tried to give some some advantages of using this mechanism next like least this basically is a picture that shows the integration which is the second application scenario so as you can see once again the NS H is carried under the segment stack but we use the NS h path identifier to push on the necessary segment routing stack when we come back from the services next slide please again stated benefits are in the draft I\u0027m not going to go through all of these I\u0027ve listed them here happy to take questions on any of them next slide we also show the encapsulation date details both SR MPLS and SR v6 didn\u0027t show up very well on this picture but again is in the draft next slide please so in conclusion basically the nsh based service chain in and segment route in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:57",
    "text": "complementary technologies that\u0027s the main point that I wanted to get across with this with this draft although we can do service chaining purely with segment routing there are a lot of issues doing it with SR MPLS mainly around metadata capabilities and so forth but there are also arguably issues around doing it with SR v6 as well which happy to have a conversation on those I don\u0027t want to go into it but it\u0027s fair to say that we could get SR v6 to do what NS 8 does eventually but obviously I\u0027m interested in getting things deployed with technology that we already have and I don\u0027t want to reinvent the wheel all over again it\u0027s taken us five years to get to where we are in SFC I don\u0027t want to do it all over again the the NS H gives us the transport independence and the SR gives us a really efficient way of steering the traffic through the intermediate nodes that without us having to carry the per flow state so by combining these two technologies hopefully we can get that transport independent SOC solution and it\u0027s it\u0027s a solution that we think takes advantage of the merits of both technologies so last slide please so next steps obviously we want to request feedback from both the spring and the SFC working groups I did talk to Joel my co-chair and SFC we need to talk to the spring working group chairs we personally feel that it it\u0027s appropriate if the working group wants to do it to adopt this work into the spring working group but again that all depends on an adoption call from from the working group and whether they want to see this so any questions they think Sandra Dorgan okay and if you go back to that conclusion for a second I would like people read this sentence carefully they are complimentary but if if we look why we do that message long long time ago was to actually isolate it from transport and yes you can do this with segments routing you can embed the message kind of information in a segment building but that defies the purpose why we separated services for transport and all the stuff we\u0027ve been doing over the last three four years as as an industry was to provide a way to actually consume networks and the more you put service knowledge into the transport the the more barriers you create so I would strongly ask people not to to think twice before pushing for this kind of embedding of services into user data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:57",
    "text": "plate so I agree that a lot of conclusions any other questions thank you so I\u0027m going to present an update on the SR service training while we completely integrate the service but segments working and the first thing that we changed since the last presentation that I have 101 wines that we renamed the draft into service programming with segment rating and the reason is that my segment routine enables to do more of interest sprinting our training services you can actually program them you can using a service 6 for example and sit arguments you can pass additional information to each service but you can also leverage the information in the x-rays and the segment list as well as other information and in order to you some advanced programming programming stuff like looping branching and and so on so the major of change in in the document is that we updated the supreme four and five to leverage he I the segment 14 polish the architecture that\u0027s that I just become a walking through document this resident in novel simplification of the proposal so we have taken on all the terminology and the reason why we did that is that before we were using with some some terminology from Eric sees and 7655 but our proposal is really independent from from this era see here the services are integrating within the segment lists within the same origin policy and well we are not we are not trying to to apply of implement the architecture from Eric C 76 65 so a reminder on yes a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:04",
    "text": "policy frame or the idea is that you have Helen that\u0027s the traffic into another policy that can be done using a local policy like the static route on on the node or automatic steering listen baby pyramid steering but all of that is described in in yes a policy right and that as a policy contains segments for deep here and contain segments for traffic engineering but it can also contain service segments and we believe that for some users it is it is useful to have these services integrated in directing to be as a policy and to use a single protocol for the service part and autocratic engineering of the PMO it is it is also completely stateless in the perfect on the stage as any significant proposal is is located at the heavens then we need some some other changes and one of them is for personal treating our services and we we\u0027re starting to get some some services with segment rating native support we added to it in in the draft and also as I was mentioning at the beginning of the presentation a few notes on the advanced network programming capabilities that segment routing provides we we also added the metadata area the TIV definition into the draft and some some various editorial page some changes so the next step what is Brad well we would like to look at the service failure detection and recovery mechanisms and also the load balancing over multiple instances of the same service we had some solutions for that for example using multiple seedless as an element working as segmenting policies associated with a needed path and each kinetic part and have multiple siblings and you do load balancing between these cygnets seed lists but we we would like to do something more from the forest service segments and also we are still looking for working group input and feedback on this proposal and we would also like to to a small working group adoption I think that was already known on the many mistakes that was before the rich water so things that change them we would like to ask again if but that\u0027s all for the polished presentation if you have any question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "please feel free to come one question regarding metadata there has been some change in the church service six document which is a continuous Cola my understanding is that the chili has been removed it is correct the chavies are other but the NS h chill Vero\u0027s the metadata the kitty is removed currently in the draft and the spring draft it\u0027s not clear whether the document reference existing is exiting ways to add that metadata or if the goal is to defines a new extension to carry metadata there are all the draft defining all this Union and from the upon the signaling header then I don\u0027t know maybe we will add mode here these into this birth or in autographs I don\u0027t know the team the question is related to - - whether you want to change the data plane for ipv6 on MPLS is it referencing existing document or do you plan to specify new extension to carry metadata in that document so for example you say method attack could be carried in in in the target which already exists so nothing new you said it could be carried in the message carrier gel-v which was the case which two months ago but currently it is removed from the research so so your intention is to defend agility in the draft on for MPLS that a plane for me give it something but that\u0027s open for discussion I would say okay so I appreciate your stating explicitly you were ignoring RFC 76065 but the whole point was to avoid a massive interoperability problem where let\u0027s say we have a segment we have SFC over segment routing v6 we have SFC over MPLS we have SFC over Ethernet we have SFC over rate IP we don\u0027t want an N "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:04",
    "text": "squared problem n sh gives us an order n problem you have to map to a transport understood we got a map to transports we\u0027re not reinventing those what you\u0027ve done is create a not just a transport but a complete representation which maintenance were into a full mapping between every representation if we followed this pattern segment routing for v6 isn\u0027t so special that we should create a new pattern for how we think about interoperability just for that seems like you\u0027re leading us down a path that makes our tasks a lot harder and a lot of statement you need some state why with routing you have all the state at the head end and we believe that some awesome news is it can be it can be better to keep on the state at at the Helen and remove it from from the network every problem we have we run into yes there are trade-offs but we try not to design new protocols for every special corner case it hurts just Jim again I had a comment on the T of ease and it\u0027s another y coming and that is why do we have to go and redefine a whole bunch of tail V\u0027s that we\u0027ve already done it\u0027s almost like and it\u0027s frustrating because it\u0027s almost like we\u0027re trying to make segments routing into the hammer it can fix everything it can do everything and damn it if it\u0027s not with a segment route in hammer we\u0027re not doing and we want it we have to reinvent everything and and that\u0027s what\u0027s frustrating it\u0027s like let\u0027s use technology that we\u0027ve already developed let\u0027s not try and make it it has to be the segment route in hammer I mean it\u0027s frustrating so you mentioned you remove the nsh carrier it\u0027s gone last time I read the draft it was gone I don\u0027t know if you moved it okay so okay okay I guess I want to encourage you to look we\u0027ve we\u0027ve already done a lot of work on the tail V\u0027s and we\u0027re still doing work on the TVs in the SFC so let\u0027s collaborate on that and that\u0027s not very inventive that\u0027s my point so if you go with the approach that way we are afraid to touch anything new that we will not do ever anything so here we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:06",
    "text": "have case where you have multiple layers of doing things and each layer is doing over and over the same thing like say with the states in the network so what what is being told here is that the SR v6 you can do not only service chaining but you can do service programming through this it\u0027s it\u0027s it is it removes it\u0027s in the network and we don\u0027t have to deal with the multiple layer or maybe this all problems that we\u0027re talking about so what is wrong with that I mean what is wrong in improving and something I don\u0027t understand so when the lfsr v62 double my traffic but yeah let\u0027s seriously it\u0027s craziness please please don\u0027t make statements you need more state you need more state in the network if you need more state in the network you\u0027re doing the wrong things in the wrong places again network is there to forward and SH is there to do services if you do it properly then then that\u0027s simply not true what you said and again just because we can do something simpler for a particular simpler use case just because we can it does not mean we should because then we\u0027re gonna have a simpler case here simpler case here and somebody at the end will come to me and say please implement this please implement this please implement this and from three simpler cases I have a shell to to support and and five years later you need a PhD to manage a network or no operator is willing to touch anything because it\u0027s so complex that that you need a PhD to introduce any technology so there are reasons why we have different protocols for different things and the segment routing is not it\u0027s not a you know panacea for everything I love the technology I\u0027m gonna cut the line because we\u0027re already over for this one one question on Java so Greg asked how how you envision separation of transport om and service of RAM on this proposed architecture yeah yeah how do you envision separation of transport om and serve this om on this new proposed architecture take it to the lease please the transport and the transport William would be used to to check the services "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:09",
    "text": "again sorry you would use the same same solutions to check the transport and the services but there is an order draft on segment routing om and it should I\u0027m not sure about that I will check hello good afternoon this is public America from Cisco today I\u0027m here to talk about a draft industry this hobby six network programming or vision 5 so as you might already know is Harvey six network programming is in a sense the capability of create a distributed program in the network as a set of individual functions through this hobby six domain of this document what is doing is describing the concept itself and some of the most basic functions that are used across a set of shared use cases so if we look at the content of the draft itself what we are defining is a new set of SRB six functions so these are the ones listed on the left-hand side and we\u0027re in essence you have some from the most basic function which is the end point or the end point with layer 3 corresponding to more functions like the decapsulation with hyper-v 6 for sonic so that the X 6 or the explore and come with the capsulation ipv6 right before table lookup and so on then we are also defining a set of transit behaviors transit with insertion transit with encapsulation transit with reducing capsulation and transit with incomes then the draft is also defining a set of basic intro to main basic security ACLs as the inter domain would be part of a separate raft and we are also defining a set of basic counters for these as hobby\u0027 6 behaviors the drug is also giving a set of use cases these cases are all of them leveraging the functions that I explained in the previous slide these use cases for our basic security layer 3 VPN layer 2 VPN this RT for under the SLA or there are an ingress be or a midpoint into an SRT policy tlf a or SRT for service programming notice that the draft is not describing fully how we create each one of these use cases so for example if I go into TLT what these draft is describing is how to leverage the functions that we create that we have defined in this raft - duty LFA but of course a TFA "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:09",
    "text": "mechanisms are described in a separate wrap them so if we look at the ID history we published this drafting March 2017 where we presented it we presented well we included the main draft some of the most basic functions and illustrations this was presented in 90th 1998 in Chicago in March last year in June 2017 we publish our vision one that was just a minor update with some draft clarifications we also included a formal definition of the counters which before were described in an abstract manner and now we are now they are defined as a counter one Condor 203 so they are concrete in October 2017 we publish the revision - which is including the evpn function so n DX to be DT - und T to M and the related illustrations we also added a new function so the endpoint with the capsulation and ipv4 ipv6 table lookup and also we move the service programming related functions into the dropship lat tract we did this with objective to leave this table with only the basic functions that are required that are required in in the most common use cases in December 2017 we publish the revision where we added the OEM so we describe how the SRA chobits processing is done the end at OTP and function and the related illustrations in March 2019 we added support for the reduce SRH following the the six-month sorry struct so this involves the functions T insert read T n cups read TN cups to read on the end v6 and we also added the Ayana registry for the SR v6 endpoint tabs with the objective that all the control plane drops can divert the IANA allocated code points to signal the support for each one of the functions right before this ITF we publish the region 5 it\u0027s just containing some text verifications it\u0027s including the nb6 reduced function that due to a narrator error was not at the new revision for and we also moved away the UAM content so deal with processing and the entire OTP function into the the OEM the ESRB six OEM draft if we look at the technology state for this truck we as you might already know we have large community support we have multiple interoperable implementations both open source and proprietary on sitcom 2017 there was an interrupt where there were two different vendors and several different open-source implementations on the ENT since report this year there was also an one vendor that had already shown intro and another different vendor I know this information we wrote a new draft to put all this information to draft this visa spring is a v6 intro specifically it\u0027s quite important for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:10",
    "text": "the open source implementations so in Linux kernel Linux SRX module and at the i/o BDD now some of the related work that is based on this ID is for example draft Duke\u0027s is bringing a surfer as the one trough ITF DMM is our v6 mobile user plain notice that the DMM draft is defining newest our v6 functions which are specific to mobility but since they are specific to mobility these functions are defining in this ID another graph is the drafts of cloud which was previously presented and then we have the service experience our v6 OEM which is also defining new functions as a v6 Young released by sorry six bt pls a sorry six Isaiah\u0027s as our a six so what I would like here is together working group input and feedback on this work so please on Bonica Juniper Networks several of the sets that you define in this document take information that is currently encoded an MPLS VPN labels and moves it into a said i\u0027d like to see you address two things in the document first why is that necessary why is it not okay where it is today second why is it a good idea to know good into the IP destination address along with routable information why not move it into some place where it\u0027s separate from me a destination address as it is today so and so your question is why don\u0027t we keep separate a VPN signal two questions first why is it necessary to re-encode it the l3 VPN service works today without re-encoding the VPN later why is it necessary to change it second given that it is necessary to change it why move the VPN context information from a separate field where it lives today in with the SID or the IP destination address where you\u0027re proposing to move it to two questions to be answered in the draft okay thank you so yeah hey Darren Dukes from Cisco if I can just tell it here so I think the question is if I can paraphrase you why move something that\u0027s currently as an MPLS label into an SR v6 SID or an SRT 60-person well I move it yeah second if you\u0027re moving it well I move it into the same field that other information lives in today okay did I guess the simple answer is this is necessary six day to plan versus or IP Vicks data playing versus an MPLS data point and the second question I think we should probably answer in text so your presentation cost me to go look again at the draft and then think about something I saw which made perfect sense in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:11",
    "text": "segment routing header draft and I\u0027m now confused so I hope I can provide a clear question this is about the transit sets which are in a drafting or in your table of said programming SIDS the text says you\u0027re at a node n you have a destination address of B which is not a local sit but you\u0027re going to do some sort of CID processing that is somehow related to something and I\u0027m not sure what from the text being transit said well the bass segment routing draft says explicitly and for obvious reasons for consistency with 8200 and good practice if it\u0027s not one of your SIDS you don\u0027t need to do anything with it so I don\u0027t understand how these transit seeds work so in essence what you are putting into this the nation address is going to be a seat that is going to be processed at another router right so you are not going to process it then why are you doing anything it says no it says no to n receives a message we\u0027re the destination address that if somebody else has said that is a nice note in for any for the similar code for all the function C\u0027s draft n receives a packet that is that has a destination address s which is a local segment to note in that is what interaction are what it says go read your text again it\u0027s very explicitly says is not a local said in fact it doesn\u0027t ever tell me it\u0027s actually a transit said I\u0027m sorry I apologize but I completely disagree - I believe how\u0027s it drafting the Texas fear I wouldn\u0027t read the draft again and I will get back to you on the mailing list because I hi my name is Uma can you go back to one slide please yeah so the second draft draft IETF DMMs rj6 Mobile is offensive great work so how only one comment on the draft because you put it here because it\u0027s connected to the programming I am commenting here s our v6 can be used as an underlay for the transport pack our transport networks great if it works but the only problem there is in the name of removing gtp tunnel the TE ID is encoded into ipv6 address what happens with this is complete all 5g mobility ring scenarios dependent on ipv6 underlay there is huge networks underlays built an MPLS today this operation will help actually so that under lists can be independently deployed MPLS ipv4 ipv6 a survey six anything except that part it is good you how to reconstruct that actually so the TE I did he not been coded into ipv6 sry six and respond the concept of the second draft night EFT MMA service diploma are you praying it I introduced "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:13",
    "text": "the gtp alternative it\u0027s not totally karate gtp you use the frame so the the idea of the service come over is a prayer is integrate both under a and is the pray layer so the programming part and underlay is fine but did you keep is operation gtp keeping is overlays better if you underlay overlap collapse that there will not be any under less you can put together actually all MPLS has to operate at SMU six the separating under empirically and either plane is not a good at to integrate the post transport and ease of mobile use of the operation integrating both of two is integrate both of two operation human could you send your comment on list and we can discuss no thank you okay next is the Chris I believe Chris do you hear us yes I\u0027m here can you hear me okay excellent if the camera can get moved towards the crowd that would be that would be good because I\u0027m not going to be broadcasting any video so be good to see who\u0027s asking questions so is there a way for you to speak louder because we don\u0027t you see I can just kind of talk loud like this does that work whatever you can let me see okay well I\u0027ll talk as loud as I can is that will this work yes okay great so this draft is talking about how to provide node protection for traffic engineered ASR paths I\u0027m going to first start out with a link protection example and kind of walk through this rather complicated topology but this issue is actually sort of a matter of details and getting all the details right so I think it\u0027s worthwhile to actually go into the detailed topology examples so the topology design on the left there I use a notation where all of the node SIDS all the notes that indexes can be derived from the node number as can the sRGB s so you know these these nodes have numbers two-digit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:15",
    "text": "numbers so the two-digit X Y value will be the node CID index we\u0027re still on the on the first slide there yeah wanted to stay stay there and the the sRGB sr1 followed by the sRGB excuse me by the index value or the notes it the node number you know followed by three zeros so for example note 83 has the index 83 and sRGB of 183 thousand similarly the adjacency Syd\u0027s for a given link link between node a B and node X Y can be derived from it\u0027ll be seven hundred thousand and the digits a B is that is the slide still showing okay there we go okay okay do you want me to wait or continue I think it\u0027s still in one screen so it\u0027s fine okay okay yeah probably it\u0027s intending to save the other screen to show my video but i\u0027m not streaming anything so that probably won\u0027t be fixable okay so with this scenario the in this example we\u0027re gonna have node 70 sending a packet out its interface 72 node 1 with the label stack that particular label stack shown i won\u0027t read out the whole label stack but it corresponds to the node cid-42 a node said 480 another node said 483 and a node said 490 so that\u0027s going to steer the the traffic from 70 to one to two to three to 80 to 83 to 90 and I\u0027ve kind of used this notation where the the light blue nodes and arrows correspond to the arrows are adjacency Syd\u0027s the blue ones or adjacency Syd\u0027s and the the blue node numbers are actual node Syd\u0027s so that you can tell sort of where the the anchor points are of this teehee path so in this particular example just doing looking at the failure of link 1 to 2 without node protection this is just the link protection case we have a normal for D entry for the incoming label of 100,000 so 1 0 1 0 0 2 you\u0027re going to pop the label and send it out the interface from 1 2 to 4 the link protecting backup path you\u0027re gonna pop the label and send it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:17",
    "text": "out the interface 1 to 21 with this different label stack and that label stack describes the in this case the T il if a backup path you know going out to 21 22 23 - and then at 3 and 30 and it basically merges the backup path at node 2 now this is okay when you just have link protection when you don\u0027t want to apply the condition that you can\u0027t go through a potentially failed node but so in the next example we\u0027ll show to go to the next slide so the next slide that that isn\u0027t the case first we can\u0027t go through - in the backup path and we also can\u0027t we have to basically go farther in the path to the next basically the next node where labels have significance so the next segment in the path so again in this example 70 is sending out the same label stack which results in the same instantiated path but for node protection and we still have the same you know primary next top label forwarding entry but the the backup path can only be determined by looking at first two labels both the top label and the second label in the label stack so in this case we\u0027re going to in the backup path send the traffic out interface 1 to 21 we\u0027re going to pop those 2 incoming labels and push the label stack shown below so that\u0027s going and that that results in that larger label stack as you\u0027re leaving node 1 to go to 21 which results in this end-to-end path immediately after the failure that goes 71 21 22 23 24 380 8390 so going on to the next slide you know this idea of looking at the having to look at the top 2 labels is kind of special for this case we don\u0027t have to do it for for link protection but I want to sort of motivate you know why why do we have to look at the second label for node protection and here\u0027s an example if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:19",
    "text": "have one path path a which is the one we described before and depending on the value of the second label for path a we\u0027re trying to get it has a node cid-42 and then a node said 480 we are going to have to interpret the label after the node cid-42 in the context of the following node or the next segment in the label stack so in this case we end up using the label value of one two four zero eight zero in that case which is basically the node said 480 at no 24 I would also point out that this notation of you know using srgb values using a different srgb value for every node is not necessarily something you\u0027d want to do in a real network you\u0027d probably want to use the same srgb value but if we\u0027re going to have a general solution for this problem we in general should take into account the possibility of different srgb s so I\u0027ve explicitly put in every node having a different srgb just to both highlight that point and so that we don\u0027t sort of oversimplify the problem and come up with a we could explicitly decide that we don\u0027t want to cover that case but at least in general I think we should be covering that case so yeah the other path possibility here is path B which goes out seventy one two three but then takes a right turn to go to 34 and then gets released up through 83 and ends up on 90 this path is going to have a different second label in an order for the PLR node one to be able to produce the correct label stack for this it\u0027s going to have to look at the second label as well any questions here so moving on to the next example so this is just illustrating why you really also need to look at the first label so that you can understand the second label in the context of the first label so just kind of hooked up a topology here where we added node four into these into this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:19",
    "text": "topology and path a and B in this case correspond to a path that either goes goes through note 2 or note 4 but are otherwise identical and you can see that in order to you need to look at the first two labels the first label in order to understand the meaning of the second label because you\u0027re basically looking at the second label in the context of the first label so moving on to the next two slides just illustrate that you can the same thing applies if you have adjacency Syd\u0027s in the in the traffic engineered path the the same kind of solution applies grease you\u0027re out of time you can what final slide yeah so um so we\u0027d like the chairs to consider conducting a poll for working group adoption what one issue that has been you have been brought to our attention that the tea is a draft also has some text that describes a solution to the same problem it uses the the solution description uses a second look up based on a sort of a modified second label the description actually in our in our draft uses context labels the description that is in this presentation actually is kind of implementation neutral I think it just talks about you know looking at incoming labels and then outgoing labels and not your mechanism for figuring out what those labels are so we you know there\u0027s there\u0027s room I think for discussing both of those solutions in a draft but I think this is falls on the side of you know practical implementation issues that it would be good for the working group to to have a draft on we\u0027re proposing an informational draft one question brush craft are in two different working group I do see the discussion to a pending the in which I think it would make more sense for it to be in spring mainly because so the the solution D the actual backup path we described happened to be TILs a backup paths but they could be any form of Beca pads they don\u0027t necessarily have to follow the purse convergence path they just need to get back to the the srte path so they can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:21",
    "text": "start using the rest of their labels properly okay thank you any comment so Stuart Brian um so I\u0027m a bit confused here as always do you have to dynamically work out what your repair path is with this technology or is it computed ahead of time like these normally for fast reroute yet are computed out of time so firms are computed ahead of time then house is consistent with the SR philosophy that the head end determines the path and the nodes in the middle know nothing about it yeah in order to provide node protection you have to you have to violate that to some extent you have to look at you know not just the first label but but the second label to what yes do you think you can send so comment on the list because we will be running out of time okay how it works it will be easier to to R is amazing thank you sir thank you Chris hi I\u0027m just presenting a new graph that we posted some time back for supporting amperes being over flexible algorithm okay so RFC 8287 define yeah so effect is defined as our effect is defined as a prefix prefix length and then protocol but now with flexible flex algorithms no same prefix can be I wrote I using multiple prefix EPS so this information alone is not sufficient FCAT 287 at that time percent there so we need to extend 8287 to add that support so I just use a simple topology as an example so here we have the default algorithm is supported by all of every node and then the green nodes support algo 128 and then the red one support elbow 129 in addition to that so now for example if you do let us say MPLS trace so starting from node 0 for destination node 9 so if it goes to node 1 and we want to do it for elbow 128 so in this case the node will receive the prefix the prefix length and the protocol but that means that it will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:22",
    "text": "resolve the default protocol but incoming packet has the label corresponding to lip I\u0027ll go 128 so it will falsely assume that there is a mismatch and indicate an error there could be other cases for example the packet ends up at a node which only supports default algorithm but not the one that we want you to test and we may say success in that case then it actually is incorrect so we should actually extend 8027 to add that support in solution is really simple we just have we have 16 bit reserved field so we can use the 8 bits from that to carry the algorithm ID by default for all algorithm unaware applications they can use algo 0 so you don\u0027t really need to worry about the older implementations or now and then whenever you want to paying for a particular flex algorithm for that case so you carry the algo ID in the elbow field so yes in this case if you see down when the node is doing validation it\u0027s in addition to prefix its length in protocol we are also carrying the elbow ID so we can carry take corresponding the prefix a it\u0027s next off and so on and we can do the proper validation and return success of failure so there is the draft very simply it is a really simple drop yeah so we\u0027re really trying to address a gap that we think this chart will address it maintains the backward compatibility and then we\u0027re going to present it to impress and spring working group right now we are seeking the working for feedback from spring working group if you have any questions over here I\u0027m happy to answer and you can also post it to the our mailing list all right thank you thank you let\u0027s clean down you have six minutes so the two purposes one is to show that how the second routing be useful to help them sqn traffic second part is really about end-to-end path traversing through happy Network because the reality is we won\u0027t be able to have SR in day one the traffic have to go through different part of the segment of not as our v6 enabled Network so let\u0027s get it started so for s q1 right there\u0027s a has been in the market for master five years the classic s t1 is being like two endpoints which are interconnected by like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:23",
    "text": "provider network and Kos SR on leased line and being supplemented by a third party path which can be public Internet so that\u0027s the the classic s t1 looks really simple but actually in deployment there are lots of lots of issues many because the mesh interconnection among all the endpoints that\u0027s why is t1 even though has been in the market for many years and the deployment has been limited however as s t1 and more and more enterprises have been finding that the digital transformation require them to put the data into specific locations whether being regulatory purpose or whether being closer to their client so that required them to place their application into that Cloud Data Center and be one with them being already already interconnected by their own VPN or leased line services there may be last mile which is not they don\u0027t have the physical infrastructure so s t1 come up is a very convenient way to interconnect those workloads hosted in cloud datacenter but the problem is when we use SD one like here between a 1 e 2 just simple SD one will goes to traverse Internet and for a very short distance no problems good convenient solution but for when those two locations are far apart and the performance become unpredictable so it is highly desirable and to put bigger part of a portion of the past into a provider domain then people will ask then how does a notch have anything to do with this desire deployment here we want to explain why segment routing is useful to enable this desired behavior for one thing for SD one path between two endpoints especially when they actually connected by like internet for example there could be multiple ingress nodes or multiple egress notes to reach your preferred destination and we have applications like attach to the endpoint here we have like for example you want we have here for the simple illustration we have a 1 a 2 a 3 and a 1 e to talk to z1 but that traffic because of the specific requirement by this application they had to go through c6 for example and a 2 2 a z2 application flow has to go through for example on c4 so with that if just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:25",
    "text": "traditional and current network and you have to do a lots of a provisioning configuration to make those flows symmetrically traverse through specific edge node where the ingress or egress when segment routing it becomes very simple we can put a policy into the ingress node and then the traffic for guaranteed to traverse your desired egress so we find this very useful and just for emphasize on that for the the path between a 1 e to the encryption IPSec encryption is really and and so in intermediate nodes don\u0027t really terminate IPSec tunnel or they don\u0027t have to do the peer-to-peer IPSec key rekey all those complicated protocol in there so that\u0027s why we find I saw it\u0027s being very useful for that and so maybe I just use this as an example so for SR to be useful for this there could be in multiple approaches when there\u0027s the binding system can be actually encoded into the the source node of the sd1 path if they are especially if they belong to the same administrative domain and you can put a finding set into the the e1 nodes and another thing is and we find out that for many of those services is almost impossible for them as our domain h know to be able to differentiate traffic based on services because services not just based on the SLA there are many other requirement criteria it is very hard for the H notes you actually be able to differentiate their services and most of services actually are marked by the e1 node and the edge node and so for the bindings that to be exposed to e1 that is a very good solution but the problem is if the e1 belongs to a different atom through the domain and your bindings is cannot be exposed to those sty nodes then we think we can use a simple kind of a way to carry the information like for example if between a1 and c1 becomes like using gie tunnel of the excellent tunnel and we can use the gie key or but we can use a source UDP source port to differentiate application and then the controller can inform the ingress node how to mapping those key into appropriate bindings it so just reiterate those two points so um see this just for illustration purpose for example if we use the gie encapsulation between the sd1 endpoint "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:26",
    "text": "to the ingress port ingress node of the PE and we can use gie key to indicate differentiate different kind of flow requirement and then controller can inform the ingress note on how to do the proper mapping then but not all the legacy network equipment support gie key and you can also use the UDP source port to do the differentiation there\u0027s being discussed in the on the mailing list because UDP port typically being used for the entropy entropy purpose and we used utilize that and to represent differentiate different application there may be an issue there for ecmp but if the last mile is only a few hops away and not many actually actual paths between the cst-100 to the PE is not a big point a big issue but anyway when you stimulate we want more feedback on the mailing list using this UDP source port to do the differentiation another part is how to represent the security the the problem is once we have a provider network the PE has the pore facing the Internet then bring up lots of security risks to the provider network for one thing we all know there could be DDoS attack to those P once you have a port facing the Internet so that part will require some kind of entity balance function to be enabled to put prevent those unwanted traffic on second part is you could have users malicious users to spoof the CPE source address to be able to get the traffic traverse through your own provider network and that one come down to kind of trade off how much as a provider are willing to put into the ash to prevent us unwanted traffic versus letting some amount of traffic to traverse and we are proposing that using some kind of a new protocol type to maybe using part of the gie key to basically represent those are the legitimate traffic for one thing the actual payload between the the two endpoint are encrypted we\u0027re only talking about the traffic ingress into the PE and to prevent unwanted traffic you need to compute okay I\u0027ll finish quickly so since we only have time I will not cover this much a magical main case so though for the sd1 actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:29",
    "text": "there will be more issues there\u0027s a tunnel between two endpoints if especially when they don\u0027t have secure channel between them to manage the the IPSec key negotiation is quite a lot of work and there are lots of gaps like using an H R P dmvpn there are some issues so we\u0027re going to have another session to discuss the gaps of today\u0027s available protocols now being RT g working group on Thursday hope people can come to join to discuss another one is the for the IPSec Auto configurations because today it takes lots of menu configuration to do the IPSec configuration and if you want to do a large-scale SD one network is not scalable so there\u0027s a draft working group draft in the iTunes SF talking about Auto configure of those IPSec parameters and I hope people who are interested I will come to you to join the discussion that\u0027s our ones day afternoon thank you very much yesterday what indirect you can trust me so since in lot of case it\u0027s going to be management system to management system interruption probably should also discuss it somewhere where management is involves thank you so it\u0027d be many many time in the digit ability to to discuss I think the so sd1 subjective so welcome to the ravine we don\u0027t text I\u0027m sorry alright guys well you can ask comes a million list alright I\u0027ll try to make this really fast all right this this draft draft Duke spring srst when actually used to be called draft Dukes SR frosty wind zero is presented Ieft ITF 100 it covered a lot of the edge st when edge testing when edge stuff that the Linda\u0027s talk covered as well as the selection of the including the selection of an SR policy through the underlay Linda\u0027s just just so we can you know get this out the way Linda\u0027s draft has has gone down the road of looking more into the what happens when we\u0027re when we have a separate ce2 PE there were sections and this one that that have started to build on that and Linda and I are gonna be talking tomorrow to try to try to see where our commonalities are and bring things together because that\u0027s probably a question or comment that\u0027ll come up with at the mic today alright so what we\u0027ve added is a single brighter example using end BM or our binding to a SR v6 binding to a multicast multicast MPLS policy and we\u0027ve added a single provider example using an SR MPLS over UDP for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:30",
    "text": "its EE to PE connections that are where they are not directly connect us or there\u0027s a transit provider between the C II and PE note and we have that documented for SR MPLS use just a quick overview here srst win really looks at the service-level agreement and providing a service level agreement to an over-the-top VPN with scale and security for the SDM in particular it allows selection of non Depot pass through a provider\u0027s network for su n edge node C denotes the SC one edge notes use a binding said to achieve this every six it\u0027s an SR v6 binding said for an ipv6 data plane for an ipv4 data plane we specified the use of an MPLS binding said over UDP of course there\u0027s other methods you can use to select an SR policy through a providers network GRE or or some other mechanism to specify a key that will allow you to select that policy so the binding sets are per customer per SLA per endpoint instantiated at the PE closest to the C II the question that is how does a server spider provision that binding SID and the answer to that is on demand on demand from an SDN controller we would request the binding sit from a provider and we started the protocol to request that and in subsequent drafts we\u0027re gonna be looking at how that protocol gets built out there are subsequent versions of this draft we\u0027re looking at how that protocol gets built to make that request between the SDN controller and a service writer controller that manages SR policies so service spider controller then provisions these SR policies to the closest Pete you know to the CEO that\u0027s that they\u0027re requested for and instantiates of binding sid of that SR policy either an MP SR or as our v6 bindings it and this is close to the end here currently we have s our v6 bindings is defined and we have MPLS bindings it\u0027s defined utilizing RFC 75 10 for ambulance UDP encapsulation we defined directly connected ce2 PE and not directly connected ce2 PE cases we\u0027ll be adding the not directly connected c2p with sr v6 in next revisions as well as the SDN controller to the service provider controller protocol extensions and exploring that area and seeing what needs to be needs to be done so this point we\u0027re asking for collaboration I know Linda will be collaborating so if other folks want to want to join us please drop us emails to the list or individually and we can move this work forward at Daniel way from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:31",
    "text": "back in again so the previous draft from Linda in this work that we\u0027ve been looks very similar so I guess maybe we\u0027re gonna have to celebrate the two draft together absolutely okay any other questions folks we have another 30 seconds or every other time is it okay thanks okay so I presented this this morning in six men we are behind in the schedules who are try to do it quick so we have room for the next presenter so this is regarding the SR v6 onm draft I am presenting it on behalf of the co-authors here X so here I mean for some illustration only thing I want you to remember is the nodes represent a service is capable node and green represent ipv6 classic ipv6 to did or not a service is capable next slide please here is the previous this work is started in july 2019 it was for classic pinion or standard ping and traceroute in a service network and then it could evolve when we added a service expand traceroute that imply Bri 2018 or actual December 2017 and we also added cases for segment by segment paying in overlay traceroute I presented this work at last ITF in London and since then there was a last call for the six Penn SRH for the SRS trough till six men out of that lost all there were comments that you hope it which were the one that was defining SRH draft it it doesn\u0027t have the usage for it fully defined in that draft so we took that comments for the last call it moves you paid to this job so now is part of this draft and also we move the O\u0026M said as far as to define the usage next that is so the draft actually have sort of two major sections with subsections so one is defining the building blocks that we need to do any - our v6 and in the second part is about some use cases illustration on how we used it building log it\u0027s not comprehensive all use cases "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:32",
    "text": "if you can build something else as well but there\u0027s the basis so only building blocks what it defines is two six one series for one behavior so it\u0027s called endo poopie that\u0027s when a man pointed point and one is for onm endpoint wait time is dampened punt and then it also defines the usage of it so the but definition came from the SRA charge it has been sleeping units radar for quite some time but with because of the last four carbons we took it here but the definition of the usage of it is defined as I miss them a copy of packet and find the copy of the packet and forward next at least on the illustration side of things there are multiple restoration bonus is the classic thing which is actually paying to a new packet or ipv6 address in a servicing network and then you have classic trace route which is tracing a route to ipv6 ipv6 address in the network it builds on ICS actually fully used to you i CNT it doesn\u0027t add anything anything is to a C and B and it was seamlessly with ipv6 thrown inside the network it for the SR basic side of thing it defines a new message type for their services to an M and we already talked about that distorting in the six-bed but that\u0027s the only changes the message type in certain cases the error message that it could be developed by a beast and when we are using in the context of a v6 next witness so this is just an example where we are pinging no an ipv6 address v4 which is on the node on that side and then if thing is happening from b1 but is the problem stripping is that you want to do that being via a cid list so the answer is very simple the node who wants to do it can create in a storage with the Sibley\u0027s recorded ship just suck it out and then any node who was known as obviously capable who will have no change in terms of processing this message is a transect ipv6 ICMP packet and the node whether included in truth the egress and in this case equals happened to be the classic mode and then to a signal correspond so no changes required at the transit node or the desperation hood but the SL v6 capable or who was the source node it wants to do and take the packet over "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:33",
    "text": "trafficking you in part can include that information yes average next up this traceroute works the same way in the interest of time I\u0027ll I\u0027ll just keep that next slide please and this is again it is paying and race note to uh ipv6 address now the second part of the illustration is with respect to ping and traceroute to asset function and I know there was a comment during earlier as well they gotta go in and I think what wouldn\u0027t break so sit is considered as generic here so it could be any city and the ping flavors are there it\u0027s end to end things when you think from source to the egress or is sector by segmenting where each node in the segment respond to that thing message so this would be like more like a proof of transit okay and increase road could be also hop-by-hop where all nodes participate in send the response to the place should request or it could be segment by segment we\u0027re only nude there are a segment in the SRH all the one that respond to the traceroute trace route so just like overlay and then there is a graph that was part of the chair update that talks about srn pls so this draft is like equally applicable so it has a statement there and same is for in in s21 and that it\u0027s a service is equally applies to that cases so painted function is basically what we see in session but the only thing is that here for ping to sit function top-40 pc 800 piece it\u0027s added to a storage and that call is packet to be very pointed and response to go back to the english next slide please in case of overlay trace or segment by segment thing we can do the use of the orbit to fools the packet can be processed by the segment on the SR SR part and the respond only comes from the segment and the behavior there is forward time is time a copy of the packet and forward next type is so this draft has been there for almost here and it means stable and at this stage we have also like this is part of the Charter we would really like working group to have an obsessional truth draft we believe is ready greg has questioned regarding the timestamp and he wants to know whence the timestamp taken and what is the purpose of just having a single timestamp I think that\u0027s his first question and the second question is with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:34",
    "text": "respect to IO am and his question is if I sorry six traceroute can be used for proof of transit then what is the purpose of in situ Empire so I think the first part is the Rafi itself does not put restriction that depends on the hardware capability in terms of where the time mister me taking it going to be up with implementation but it\u0027s typically as soon as possible on the English pipeline this is where it should go and regarding the ro NM it\u0027s different to living the Iowa named toolkit does provide for prop tracing into the packet and here we are doing tracing which is on the on the probe so it\u0027s different use cases so there is an overlap message on wanaka juniper networks could you go back one slide easier said than done okay this slide shows functionality that\u0027s interesting not only to packets that have the segment routing routing header but possibly other routing extension types ones that are already defined or maybe ones that will be defined in the future might it be a good idea to make this functionality available to everybody by moving the obut out of the SRA chatter and into a destination option that precedes the SRA cheddar would have the exact same functionality it would just be available to other segment routing other routing header types so first thing is that when a new hardware is processing the SRH hope it is they\u0027re inaccessible and you don\u0027t have to look elsewhere to get another or an embed and that\u0027s less complexity with hardware the second thing is that here when anyone the node to make a decision based on the seat type whether that mood for that particular seat type really want to process that obit or not it is a local decision it\u0027s trip and with putting it in another distribution header makes that complexity to thymine we can take it offline but I\u0027m not agreeing that we put it in a destination matter okay how ask a follow-up question to that you excited processing time as being an issue are you making an assumption that a packet with the obit will take the same map a number of clock cycles to process as one without the obit set no if you put in a destination option then you have to skip there there everything is our edge and it\u0027s just one bit yeah I thought so that\u0027s why I said another point is that if you change the very same part that you\u0027re trying to do administrator by putting something somewhere that we know that the hardware we have a lower speed in processing then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:34",
    "text": "what are we gonna drink that\u0027s not so so we having an adduction we need to sync with a six month Charles because there is a discussion and cherries here okay so we just wizard six pencils okay okay if they\u0027ve been shared didn\u0027t have objection in receiving this work you\u0027ll be okay to take the adoption we\u0027ll wait we wait for themselves from the chairs signatures okay because there is an extension to to the ipv6 segment header okay so with the spirit time I know four minutes know regarding the time we need to skip the next presentation about contours there is a k1 slider maybe you can make a summary on the list yeah I think for the next slide I can to give rakesh time yes I can just say that there\u0027s this draft came from SR policy can you can you summarize also least there is one slider yes I can I mean option okay thank you thank you rakesh story you have a four to five minutes so you may want to choose one subject America\u0027s Ghandi and presenting three drafts and performance measurement in the next three minutes if you can choose wanna so I\u0027m presenting on behalf of the authors and contributors so the first draft is for the SR MPLS data thing so the presentation covers the requirements and scope the probes for links and SR policies for the delay and loss measurement and responses and advertising the t link metrics next so basically 66 74 RFC it\u0027s defined for MPLS DP using gal gas and we are using the mechanisms that already exist for the segment routing for the links and policies and as well as the 78 only six for directed path the scope is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:35",
    "text": "informational in nature so it doesn\u0027t define new procedures so as mentioned this is a gal gas header for their Sol links the next and SR policies we built with the pls label stack next so these are the basically the delay measurement and loss measurement packet formats define in 62 C or D port so next in the next so out for outer band one-way delay in lost measurement the 7876 defines the UDP return path so this is what we would use for the signal routing as well the next and there are already RFC is defined for OSPF eius eius and bgp alice is also becoming RFC for advertising the PA link metrics next so we welcome your review comments and suggestions there are multiple implementations already exist so we are requesting working group adoption what is draft and next so this draft is for defining the UDP path for sending the queries presenting on behalf of the authors and contributors and next next so the acquirement is to loss and delay performance measurement that\u0027s agnostic to the data plane and we don\u0027t need to boost our PM s-- essence to negotiate UDP port that\u0027s the spirit of SR is stateless on egress node and when we enter your measurements and handle ICMP scenarios and the scope is that we will use the 60 TCR d4 probe message formats as well as the 7876 UDP reply so we are basically getting the UDP ports for the delay and loss measurement and next so as define there is one port is for the delay measurement and one port is for the last measurement and next so response is set back using the UDP information that\u0027s received in the in the probe query message and next so it does define a return path segment list for the two-way measurement and next so I the SR policy there is a CMP so by adding the IP header IP UDP header we can take advantage of the a CMP functions that\u0027s already there in forwarding next so we welcome your review comments and suggestions the implementations for the building blocks 63 74 I PA DP base pros for IP SLA already exists so we are requesting for working group adoption for this one as well next so you have a question and then I think we have oh wait I mean he\u0027s got a short time and I have just one two minutes two comments we need you need implementation or reports on the BGP te "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:36",
    "text": "draft please if you\u0027ve got them would you pls I mean yeah the first the first presentation wpte we need those implementation reports to make sure it goes just to is G idea has to implementation permits thank you look good thank you we\u0027re gonna call it here because we\u0027re already a minute over so thanks we can wrap these advertise your slides on the the listener okay Nix Nix Nix Nix thank you please sign the blue sheets you "
  }
]