[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "um okay good afternoon folks uh it's time to start so we're here at the Radix uh buff uh looking at radius yet again my name is Stephen Farrell there's a list of links on the slides uh if somebody remote can confirm the audio is working for them that'd be good I assume it is though it tends to work these days uh so I think we have an agenda first we have a note well this big one day this is a some version of the note well that was in some slide deck I had so uh you know the idea is you should read this and you should be familiar with all the things be nice to people behave well and all will be good you have an agenda uh so we're at the intro part we do have no takers thanks to Stefan already and Phil is looking to keep an eye on the chat room see if somebody needs to be relayed from us uh you need to log into the data tracker to the equivalent of the blue sheet so please do that or have done that and if you want to get in the mic line then please join the queue same as what all folks do I think that should be familiar to most people um and I and obviously yes unless you're at the front of the room talking you should you should keep wearing your masks uh we also have a Jasmine at the back there who's filming the meeting but you're on camera anyway so I assume nobody has an objection to being on other cameras as well as the the many that are around here so this is our agenda basically we have Alan is going to present uh some backgrounds as to why why you start this again uh John Frederick is then going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "talk a bit about one particular RC and Bernard who's remote will be presenting another one um then we'll just talk a bit about you know a work you know how a working group might operate uh that's kind of changed I guess a little bit since the previous instantiation of radixed people use interim meetings more and so on and those tools might help in this case we look at the charter text and discuss that uh we may or may not get to the point where we I doubt we'll end up with finished polished Charter texts that's all immediately ready to go today but hopefully we can tee that up and have all the changes that need to be discussed on the lists uh figured out we'll then do the usual buff questions and our area director Paul is here and we'll then wrap up a conclude and tell us how good or bold we've been I guess uh does anybody want to bash the agenda with this agenda what we think we want to do today uh I'll take silence as a yes okay uh one other slide I have only is that the intent here is that this is a work group forming buff so the goal is to not do another buff later and but rather to try and form a working group after today if we're successful and as I said that probably we won't have I doubt we'll have like fully finally final Charter text today but then that can be discussed on the list and then hopefully all going well the working group formation process will continue after that okay um I guess that brings us on to our stop sludge select products so you want the operational ones yeah okay so just tell me when to move okay um I'm Alan as some of you might know um if we go to the next slide I'll be talking about operational and implementation experience with radius so why are we here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "um this was a bit over of a review of what we have versus what we want um summary of public information open source edurome and then some information from some of the commercial vendors who've also participated next slide so we have things like uh radius TLS not as widely used as it could be there are issues with the open source implementations radsec proxy has one connection for Home Server so it's not good for high load situations um free radius had some issues with head of line blocking um in TCP uh radiator Cisco Nokia implemented NPS does not and this is also for dtls I believe supported in some Nas equipment um we'll go to the next one next topic dtls widely sort of less widely used rad set proxies telling the same issue free radius doesn't implement it um ice implements it supported in some Nas equipment so even though these standards are about 10 years old they are not ubiquitous they are not used Everywhere by everyone which perhaps they could be next slide unfortunately much of roaming is still radius UDP um TLS psk is essentially unused TLS certificates can be hard to get and telling Cas that you're getting a certificate for web servers and then using them for radius or Eep is still a widespread practice because that's the only way you get those certificates"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um certificates also can be hard to manage um you've installed the radius server you've put a certificate on it and it expires and who did it you know last time how do you renew it where do you go what's the process and I can say from personal experience I've bought certificates from public Cas and simply gotten nothing back right and this this happens um they don't refund my money but they don't give me a certificate and then what do you do right it's the next one next slide a lot of edurome is still UDP um because of previous previously mentioned implementation issues open roaming mandates TLS and 7585 Dynamic discovery some many roaming providers use ipsec pretty much if you get radius from a cloud vendor it's UDP and it's not as bad as it could be because all of your passwords and authentication information are in Eep so it's not that bad but everything else is in the clear where are you what your machines look like um that's a problem so next slide um I will go back one do we do that all right I skipped seven oh okay here we are sorry yes um tlspsk not really implemented um 6614 and 7360 suggest it but they say nothing about identities which are also needed for psk to work um it looks like a lot of The Naz vendors just gave up and went with certificates um not a lot of implementations of it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "I'll get into that in some of the other slides too for the next one we have issues with certificates the ca form is the ca browser form that is their customer base they don't care about radius or Heap um that's their business and as I said a lot of people just go yeah this is for a web server and then do whatever they want with it private Cas are hard to manage and no one really wants to start up a new ca Forum just for radius and Eep there's a lot of work there next slide it's hard enough to get shared Secrets correct in this message is or has been the bane of my existence for 20 years there is a message produced which says the shared secret is wrong please double check it and every couple of months there's someone on the public mailing list going what could this possibly mean and the problem is if we can't get shared Secrets correct certificates are impossible right no one no one can do it you know the yeah it's it's very difficult so certificates have um other issues configuring supplicants is hard um one of the things my team looked at a few years ago is war driving putting up a edurome SSID and walking around the university in something like 60 of devices would just happily end all their authentication credentials to you um not checking the server certificate not checking that the ca was known and unfortunately we put too much work into spoofing we actually had an interesting thing where someone would connect to us to the war system with a domain name we would go out to the web"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "server find out what certificate they were using and present a new certificate with the same address the same phone number turns out none of that mattered because no one even looked at it right either the systems just bypass that completely or everyone just went yes yes yes um this is horrible we pretend to use TLS for Eep um it's barely functional and not really verified it's getting better um but it's a problem next so how are we going to fix these problems we can mandate good behavior we can tell people very very carefully how to do it and we can make sure that the implementations have the missing functionality so this is sort of the background as to why we're here I think that was it for this one next slide yeah so any questions or comments on that I feel like standing up here and going hi my name's Alan and I do radius yeah no questions or comments everyone's in violent agreement okay next presentation then very very easy thank you rad extra it just won't go away uh next slide so the common question is if diameter exists and diameter is so much better why do people still use radius and the answer of course is radius is good enough for most purposes another answer is if you have lots of money you can buy a commercial diameter solution um there aren't really many open source diameter Solutions there's open diameter which has been dead for 10 years free diameter which is sort of there it's it will send diameter packets it's not as much of a product to use in production"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "as it could be um whereas radius you go download free radius servers off the net and everyone uses that everywhere so diameter is used in 3G 4G um radius is used everywhere else so if you're paying 200 for an access point it will not do diameter full stop if you're an Enterprise University you will not pay 400 000 for a diameter server full stop no point all your equipment does radius um you can download stuff off the net or NPS has it or if you buy Cisco equipment they'll give you ice and it just works and you walk away right so in many cases diameter is simply not a choice it just doesn't exist for many use cases next slide so what's wrong with radius uh everything almost um security depends on md5 the fact that it still hasn't been completely broken is a bit of a miracle um scalability 8-bit IDs are so very 1993 and the fact that it still sort of works is a bit of a miracle um features Credit Control diameter for what it is has a lot of stuff which is needed on 3G 4G some of the bigger isps diameter's more real-time Credit Control Etc it has more features than radius great so next slide what do we do well we add more patches nobody wants a new protocol we tried that with diameter it worked out fantastic um but it wasn't the Next Generation radius protocol it solved a completely different problem in the end what we want is minor changes to code you know sort of squinting at code maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "poking a thousand lines here and there we don't want a couple of hundred thousand lines of code because that's just a brand new implementation works with existing operational models so no one changes their workflows their business processes fixes security issues and hopefully mostly backwards compatible or if the implementations haven't changed that much backwards compatible enough so current proposals that are in the charter move TLS and dtls to standards track deprecate UDP and TCP outside of secure environments whatever you do in your own network is your problem help roaming operators maybe best practices ping trace route this kind of thing where did my packets go and why didn't they get there um radius without md5 in hindsight leaving md5 and rad Sac was probably the wrong decision it was easy at the time and it's biting us now extending the 8-Bit ID space uh reverse COA to work around that firewall issues so for examining an edu Roman open roaming it is impossible to kick users off once they're on they're on that's it too bad um next slide yes it's probably the place to explain what COA is change of authorization and disconnect everyone uses CLA for change of authorization or disconnect request packets disconnect tends to be a bit more widely used I think than COA but everyone calls it COA because it seems easier okay next slide thank you implementation status yes for a for a buff on a not a brand new protocol uh TLS and dtls widely implemented and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "used could be more but people are using them um radius without md5 2000 lines of code right hack and slash get it to work uh status realm uh Margaret Cullen has a draft on this this is essentially ping and trace route um that's a thousand lines of code the extended ID there's no implementation on that reverse COA um that's been shipping for a year in Aruba Cisco and free radius to the next slide and I didn't mention the S radius stuff in here specifically um but that is there next questions does all of this make sense does this look good no flames stones so I see people melting in the room I don't they're not nothing to sleep I think they're not in agreement okay I think that was it nothing else for me then oh oh there's more slides after that yes Carrie yes yes yeah hi this is from radiator software one of the few radius vendors around and one of the few commercial radios vendors around compared to Allen's uh open source product project but uh all of this we have been discussing this for very early a bit uh Holland that uh for the sake of interoperability and for the uh everything to work in a room open roaming and this kind of operator networks we need this kind of a working group but we need these things to be developed for the radius to further in cooperation so that we keep the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "interoperability alive and everything will still work and we have been uh been cooperating for example with FTL hospital and Alan already so that uh radiator and free radios work together between each other and uh we as a company fully support this uh new start for the working group and also these traps that are presented here thank you okay thanks it's useful to have that I can remember thank you so Bernard uh yeah uh I was wondering about the deployment of radius TLS and radius uh dtls in 80211 access points do you know of any access points that actually support this I I went shopping and I couldn't find one um I know that I I I believe the arrow Hive ones do um correct me if I'm wrong with the The Cisco access points do dtls yes Aruba Kerry says Aruba also um it may be well hidden Lancome okay yeah yeah the Aruba one yeah the Aruba one just does uh rad Sac so yes this this information is out there but it's somewhat hidden so there are some implementations so the problems that were listed here have been known for a really long time like since I was a security area director a long long time ago and the answer has always been oh no no radius is you know dying diameters coming obviously that's not the case let's just fix it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "thanks nobody else in the queue so do you want to go do you want to go go ahead with the other slices so I have some more slides in some of the individual documents um deprecating UDP on the title of the document is deprecating radius but it's really deprecating UDP and TCP md5 has been cracked for a decade um and as I was writing this document I went out and did a little bit of research and a little bit of math and basically if you're a hobbyist you can crack all eight character shared secrets in a very short period of time if you have a little bit of money like hundreds of thousands of dollars you can crack much longer ones so basically if your packets are going across the internet then anyone with money who has access to those packets is cracking your shared secrets and can do anything they want um and there are some Cloud vendors that are not doing Eep they're doing passwords across the internet because it's easy you have to assume that all of those passwords have been compromised it really is that bad so sensitive information such as device information and personal personal location is sent in the clear we know who you are we know where you are on a 15 by 15 minute basis this can have security implications for lots of people um so this document mandates the use of TLS outside of secure networks mandates TLS psk because of the aforementioned issues with shared Secrets even are hard and certificates are even harder and adds text around TLS missing from 6614 so whether this text goes in here 6641bis"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "it doesn't really matter these documents are all end up all being sort of related the next slide question sorry uh West hardiker uscisa um so the interesting thing about this right is just use TLs but but your earlier slides we're all talking about how nobody's using TLS and so how does how do you you know write a document that says you should do something that nobody is doing even though they could be doing it now because you know in order to get this working we actually need to get to deployment and that seems challenging that's very especially considering the goal of backwards compatibility and so I'll follow up with one last question and I'll sit back down keep taking notes which is how you're going to prevent downgrade attacks uh yes um so on to the second one first downgrade attacks it's a different part um it's all administratively configured so there's no negotiation of TLS or not um for for the rest of it um if the implementations get a little better and I'm somewhat responsible for that if they get better it will be easier to use some of the reason for deprecating radius UDP and radius TCP um is public embarrassment right it's people still use it because it works because there's no document saying don't do that so as soon as you write a document saying don't do that you now have a little more of a weapon to go after vendors and practices and whatever it's just it's one more step yeah I'm Stefan vinta I work for ederram uh and I'm the original author and magnitude of 6614 so for hstns we wrote this for at your own purposes um just to get everybody using TNS and I guess the main reason why it's it's uptake is not 100 is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "because back in the day I was young I needed the idealism so I said certificates for the world and um that's where the draft focused on and DRC focused on but it really is just like Ellen said people are not prepared to handle certificates consistently so um I think if we do this work here to promote more the use of TLS psk and other pre-t Solutions um we will draw hopefully everybody who just has a chat secret today to just flip a switch and say okay I got I got a new shot secret out and all of a sudden it's magic DNS if it's that easy I think we have a chance of going forward foreign so uh my name is Grant Knott I'm uh graduate student at the naval post graduate school and kind of a crypto newbie so correct me if I'm wrong or please inform me but do you foresee any issues with mandating uh TLS psk with like generating keys for people to use with that or any difficulty in trying to get people to go along because when they see psk they might just be like oh that sounds like too much work I'm not going to do that um yeah the the draft in fact has a three-line Perl script which will generate a vaguely humanly readable psk which is 96 bits yeah the problem is people see psk and they just go I don't know I'll type in something hello testing one two three whatever it is right they treat it as shared secrets I don't know it's something it's it's better than using md5 and shared secrets not much you can do okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "a few comments about first one of the major things that uh kind of protecting radios with TLS is that nowadays even if we have authentication that is using TLS to protect the credit themselves we are still possibly sending in some cases the accounting messages in plain text and in accounting messages there might be might be more kind of interesting information such as for example location at reports of the use of the terminal there and if we put this inside the TLs like uh error c6614 there they are protected but in the other case these accounting messages are just flowing there without any encryption with all the user details in them I know that the error solution is that yeah we should just dropped according messages on the national level I'm not saying that but this this way this doesn't work when you are doing commercial roaming and you need those accounting messages such as open roaming so it's important to tear to secure the traffic with TLS then uh about tlsp SK I think this kind of model of using psk has been around since Wi-Fi roaming was started with Boeing or anti-pass it was just used with IPS X so everybody just configurator psk for the IPS externals instead of using certificates because certificates was thought to be hard for them yeah but this is to support this development work here thank you Bernard um I just wanted to comment about TLS psk in that I think you need to think about uh even though we have controllers today and there's a lot less to administrate than there used to be you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "still have installations which might have 50 100 controllers and so uh configuring the psks is not necessarily simple especially as I think you pointed out on the list the you need a different psk for every version of TLS so you know you need uh the question would be how would you uh say create a psk model where you didn't have to change all your access points when you did an update to a new version of TLS do you have any thoughts on how that would work uh I I've tried um it's hard um I'm not convinced I understand open SSL enough to know exactly when you get the correct TLS version and can choose a different psk depending on that that requires a bit more more research um yeah it's a hard part problem and it really needs to be solved right it's is it the deployment and management thing of if we don't solve the deployment and management problem everyone will just go back to the same garbage they've been using for 30 years it'd be nice to have that fixed thanks Margaret can people hear me yes okay my name is Margaret Cullen I work at a company called painless security but um we consult with internet too to run the infrastructure for Edge Rome Us in the United States and um someone asked about downgrade attacks which is a good question um I think the other flip side of that though is that one of the biggest things we have to maintain is backwards compatibility for a hybrid infrastructure we have about a thousand idps and a few thousand service points"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "or or RPS in the U.S and right now they've been doing a push for a while to get people to move to Eep TLS and 15 of our people are on it so whatever we do it's going to be years I think where the US and I assume also other countries and parts of the world parts of edge Rome will be running the old versions and parts would hopefully over time pick up the the new requirements and I'm wondering um what how do we deprecate md5 in a way that that allows proxying between people who use the previous version in this version do you have thoughts about that Alan yes um so the S radius draft talks about this um any of the changes in that document are limited to a hot by hop so it's a transport profile for radius it doesn't change the contents of the radius packets as received by the Home Server so whatever you want to do with radius it just passes straight through um so it is backwards compatible um Stefan had a point in the mailing list about maybe adding a flag to the S radius packets saying by the way I want secure transport and don't forward this packet over an insecure transport so any proxy which does both will work with both so there's no no changes to packet format packet contents um anything else yeah so so that should be good but that sounds good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "hello my name is Tom Franco I'm affiliated with arpa2.net um speaking about TLS we have been drafting a specification that enables Kerberos authentication in the TLs protocol and I'm wondering whether that would be helpful as an alternative way to not use psk but also not to deal with all the CA and then pki stuff that that may help if I remember correctly in the depths of time Bob Moskowitz and I had a draft I think it would have been 2001 proposing to use Kerberos to get the the to derive the radius shared Secrets um and everyone at the time sort of ran away but uh yeah it's certainly better than just making stuff up well it would be good for us and we at least have some viable use cases of course we have already some from the corporate world but uh it's nice to have others um I mean we can cooperate in in this respect okay thank you all right Ian Dickinson from victory for we've got our own implementation rather than any of the others that are out there but one of the things that we've been paying a lot of attention to is Secrets management in general and I was wondering if you feel there's a need for some BCP around best best practices for Secrets management when we introduce this sort of stuff yeah um I I'd avoid it for radius shared secrets and simply just say dear God run away from that um but for TLS psk yeah I'm I'm happy to guide people in any way so that they don't invent stuff on their own and do you foresee that there's anything unique in this space or we can piggyback on work done elsewhere I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "happy to piggyback I'm working elsewhere I don't want to invent new crypto and Radix and we're about at the time we went for this presentation but if you want to take another few minutes to cover any data science just does anything want to jump to or [Music] um no I think maybe come back with later discussions yeah the rest of the slides are all about all the other drafts um do we want to go through those or just skip them and move on to other things but you're more familiar with the content um is it worth just spending like five minutes for sure sure okay so we do it we'll flick through the slides very quickly um so s radius is the secure transport layer TLS throwaway all the md5 packet obfuscation packet encryption Chapin Ms chap are unaffected um we'll go to the next slide uh uh reuse the authenticator field for a 64-bit request reply token so you get an extended ID for free um as defense suggested that maybe adding a flag for that on to the next slide um that's okay um the extended ID that started quite a while ago and was just hey if we have this 16 byte essentially random field why not use it as a unique Authenticator um there's complexity there it's more complex to implement than something like s radius so whether or not this is a good idea or not would have to have a longer discussion on lots of negotiation and signaling reverse COA that is 30 seconds the nas connects via TLS to your radius server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "how do you kick the user off well you just send COA packets back down that TLS connection um there's some text around that in the draft but really that's the basic idea and that gets you past Nat firewalls Etc um and it leverages off of the previous COA proxying document so you should be able to proxy it all the way back um and at least some of this is implemented in various systems as I said so next slide yes all there all documented um there's details to be worked out but it does work but next time we'll flip through them I think that's the last one okay nothing else I'll sit down thanks uh yes hello my name is just one comment uh the drafts that were sort of off quickly presented there they touch different parts of radio's messages and use status server Pro for different kinds of things uh for me they look uh when I went in through one by one reasonable and I'm interested in implementing them but then I thought we probably have to coordinate and consider that if somebody implements all of them is there something that makes them not these traffic fights and to one of the other drafts or are there something that can be implemented all together so that when we use when it is a reverse COA"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "extended IDs and uh no what is radius so does it still work uh this is Alan again the answer is yes there's always caveats the one thing for me is the more I look at the extended ID draft the more I think it's very complicated but everything else really should work together the main thing for S radius is it's just a point-to-point transport it doesn't change anything else so whatever other Drafts come through like status realm that those just get transported so there there's some overlap but they're either compatible or completely orthogonal so that makes it a lot easier so sorry I guess what that discussion might suggest is that maybe you know it might be a useful milestone for a working group early on to say you know let's think about exactly Which documents we want to construct and Factor them out this way or that way okay great thanks Frederick yeah okay uh so yeah young Fred um I'm with the national roaming operator for Eddie ROM in Germany deutschesnet the German research and education Network and uh yeah I want to talk about uh the radius over TLS standard it's currently an experimental you can go to the next slide um yeah it is it had it it's a 10-year anniversary uh this may um basically what Ellen just said uh use TLS to encrypt the radius packets we have this constant shared secret redsec which is used them to um and calculate the the authentication codes there um and we have as Ellen already said the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "the authentication Mutual authentication via certificates and optional TLs psk but the RFC does not really specify exactly how to use it so it just says you can use TLS psk it's optional but no further guidance on how to use it um and also as Ellen already said we have a wide deployment of radius over TLS already in edurom for example for the connection between the national roaming operators and in Germany it is mandatory for all institutions if they want to connect to our Federation proxy they have to use radius over TLS so our radius server only or our hot SEC proxy only has two or three special cases where we use radius over UDP still next slide so what we want to do um is actually just bump the protocol from experimental to proposed standard or somewhere else in the standard track so um and then we want to add some specifications from our deployment experience with the current experimental uh version so basically um we will have to update the TLs versions because I think uh it still says tls11 is mandatory so obviously that's not valid anymore the question would be here should we make tls13 mandatory I just had a brief um uh exchange with uh Stefan uh saying maybe it is okay for this uh draft to still make TLS one two mandatory and one three uh optional because um then we have this as a complete Backward Compatible uh standard and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "with s radius we can start fresh um we definitely will have to add more text about TLS at psk um to clarify how to deal with identities uh and this sort of stuff so that we actually have enough to go for cutsec without Ki which is one of the main reasons I think why people still use radius over UDP over ratsec we have the idea of using raw public Keys as well so if you have to exchange secrets and you don't want to use certificates signed from any CA and where do you get these from then why not exchange just raw public keys and then use them um yeah we had a short discussion about adding server name indication uh as well to to the draft um we already have uh a trusted CA indication in the RFC 6614 um but uh I my my goal for the hackathon was to maybe see if I can use that in ratsik proxy and uh that was that dream was crushed by the lack of support in openssl as far as my research went um yeah so basically if you have any other updates uh of the RFC 6614 that you think would be useful um inserted there um I have just started with a draft uh published it um but of course other authors and previous editors are also welcome we have already uh I I have already received some feedback from the original RFC 6614 offers were willing to uh contribute here as well so yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:06",
    "text": "um I I think your your option to go with raw public Keys is interesting uh I've I took a look myself as well and I also noticed that there is hardly any implementation around that actually supports it there's a very nice RFC 7250 that specifies um certificate type negotiation and and we needed it for our TLS kdh story so I've implemented this functionality in new TLS so if you need a library that supports it you can take that one and I'm currently working on embed TLS to support it there as well so if you have any other requests just let me know then we maybe you can work something out because it's nice of course if it's widely supported because it opens up lots of possibilities yeah thank you all right hello this is um first I welcome the update and uh there's one thing that I was thinking that actually uh some time ago when I was working on our drastic server I thought it doesn't support uh daily assassin's resumption and I thought about maybe we should support it but then I thought well is it really necessary because I think our sessions with uh radius over dealers are long-lived so uh they probably wouldn't be coming coming and going as often as for example with the speed based Eep on the cases so what should we uh say about session resumption because I don't think the draft or the original RSA didn't say anything about it so if there's some resumption then there's the validation of should it be allowed to Resort resume and so on so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "would it one option simply be that it's not used um I I will have to think about that uh it's it's definitely an interesting uh use case especially if you don't allow things like this reverse uh KOA um then maybe helpful to allow session resumption uh in use cases where you have only occasionally an authentication request so um that you don't have to to keep the the connection alive um I'm not exactly sure I don't think the original draft has anything about that um no I don't think the original draft has anything about it I just looked and I'll look for resume resumption I know well okay well through it but so it sort of unspecified but with TLS it's there and could be surprising in some cases yeah we could definitely add a section about session resumption in this draft thanks for the uh sure for this end yeah yeah hi this is radiator software again a few comments about this uh one one is uh what you just discussed we take which also from our company uh uh was that there is already in in the implementations at least in radiator there is a possibility to make Dynamic tunnels and then drop them if they there is no traffic for them or then make this kind of static tunnels that are kept with heartbeat so that's already kind of already already in the implementations but on the behalf of radiator software we kind of fully support operating this RFC 66614 because there was a original developer of the radiator was part part of the right writing the rc6614 so we are definitely interested"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "in participating in updating this testing uh then some other things about this draft was that there was some language that we may need to discuss about that for example that um there was a language that could be interpreted in the draft that one would need to verify the uh when it provides its certificate and that kind of doesn't make sense in the sense that if that client is for example behind multiple nuts and just makes the tunnel there so we need to be kind of careful so that the draft isn't uh kind of written in a way that would kind of tell other implementers that this is the way to do it yeah I I have um some of my own comments also in the GitHub repo for for this draft so um you're free to to add the comments there um via issues yeah yeah thank you very much I will definitely kind of contact you uh about those things then uh some uh operational comments as well uh we are running uh error on top level Radio Service in Finland for CSA funet as well in addition to kind of developing a radiator and in there the situation is that there is a very rare organization that are connecting with rodsec and we are all only now in the progress of connecting Finland stop-level servers in the European service via rad sector so uh it's something that might benefit from this kind of update that it's easier to take into use also in other organizations and my final comment about this is then there are Holland trough for example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "that Rivers change of authorization and uh but I think cake was already mentioning about the shutter trust there needs to be coordination so that we don't do kind of overlapping work in the with different different drafts and for that this kind of Revival of this working group would be kind of a good idea thank you thank you that's the best thank you and Bernards I'll I'll share the deck and then try and give you control I guess the best thing to do okay how do I give control again okay ah there we go okay uh so this is a little talk about the history of this process which is described in RFC 6421 . so the as Russ mentioned the limitations of radius security have been long understood when RFC 2058 was published in January 1997 I believe that the igf security area director who is Jeff Schiller described security as barely adequate and at that time radius was only about dial-up networking but it expanded subsequently to VPN into 8211 and at that point some additional concerns emerged in particular as radius was considered for use in Ada 211"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "um the radius EAP RFC 3579 described uh known attacks and potential Solutions and if you read section 4.3 it's eight pages long just the security issues the dictionary and known plane attacks but also one thing which came to the fore was the leaking of geographic location for 80 to 11. so in dial-up networking knowing that you dialed into the a point of presence really only told you roughly what city you were in but with 80211 knowing what particular access point you you were connected to gave a much more specific geographic location and uh in particular as we are moving to cloud-based radius Services uh if you can imagine somebody snooping near a cloud-based Radio Service they would be getting enormous amounts about that of location information you know they would have the user ID and they would have the uh Mac address of the access point that was being connected to and with a little bit of use of location apis they would basically have enormous numbers of people's location information on a minute-by-minute basis so even in 2003 it was understood that there was this threat um and so RC 3579 section 4.2 specified radius over ipsec for Security Services and this was actually the lack of confidentiality radius was actually considered a deployment blocker by many Enterprise customers and this was implemented in in Center sort of the higher end Enterprise uh access points fairly widely um and the way it was done was that the certificates were provided by an Enterprise CA um which handled the enrollment problems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "and so forth but obviously you needed to have a significant I.T staff to maintain the certs um another issue which was found was that in these kind of secure installations it was very important for the radius server not to run if ipsec wasn't functioning so the the question was how would the application know that ipsec was up or not and this was uh somewhat of a challenge so a little bit about the road map as Russ mentioned this has been around a while uh the uh action got started while Russ was still a security area director in 2006 uh the area directorate requested Radix working group to review security deficiencies and had a work item in 2008 David Nelson submitted the first draft of what became RFC 6421 which was published in November 2011 which is crypto agility requirements for radius that summarized the status of radio security described the requirements for securing it and laid out a two-stage process for standardization of secure radius stage one was publication of the experimental RCS which have already happened as people described but stage two was promotion of proposals to the status track and I'll talk a little about what the requirements were for that and why they were not met so um in 6421 basically uh the uh requirements for standards track publication were that the drafts would have to be evaluated against the requirements in most cases that that was already done in the experimental rfcs um and they do meet the requirements through TLs but there was also a requirement for a summary of deployment experience and evidence of multiple interoperable implementations and deployability um and that that was the hold up because it never really met that requirement and I don't believe they they do today either um and section two was uh the definition"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "of crypto agility which is basically the ability to adapt to evolving cryptography and security requirements um and the idea was that you could do do this within the transport layer which is what the proposals ended up doing or potentially within the radius protocol which is is not done in the proposals that have been described um and uh the idea was to not change everything about radius to to make as few changes as possible but just to add the security um and therefore and not require new attribute formats or wholesale changes um which was thought to uh limit deployability um so uh 6421 required per pack in integrity and authentication it made confidentiality recommended um as well as support for both x509 I'm pretty sure keys this was described the end-to-end security of radius attributes was optional and is not part of the two proposals that have been described um section 43 describes backward compat um and that was to allow uh the transition to occur over a period of time because typically the last uh the most difficult thing is to get this into the devices and so you'll have uh Legacy devices for long periods of time that only support radius edit as it exists and as you buy secure devices and introduce them you can move more and more of the traffic over to the secure radius but for a period of time you'll have these the secure and answer secure versions uh running at the same time um which also means you need to keep track of which axis points or or NASA's are secure and must be must run secure radius and which uh our Legacy and therefore can only run the Legacy radius um typically what was done to handle a backward compatibility was to use a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "separate Port which is allocated for the experimental rfcs 2083 both TCP and UDP um okay so as was mentioned there were two documents published as experimental the radius over TLS 6614 um and then uh and then radius over dtls which I'll talk about in a minute um okay I mentioned mentioned the ports so let's talk a little bit about radius over dtls that was the last experimental draft published in September 2014. um section one does talk about some of the issues I just described with radius over ipsec uh one of the advantages of radius over dgls and TLS is that the application can be intimately aware of the security and make sure that it's put in place and stays in place uh so that you'll always uh have those security services available okay okay all right so what happened um during the process that caused it not to complete so it's it's now been 16 plus years since the ITF security area first initiated work on radius crypto agility um certainly we've understood the security issues Alan talked about them um the location issues were understood in 2003 um and they've only been magnified by location apis which make it a cinch to go from um a an uh an 802.11 Mac address to a location within 100 meters but the experimental proposals have been in the field for eight to ten years there's some implementation and deployment experience but very limited market penetration um and so the big question is why we've talked about some of these reasons but what do we need to do to get over this um one of the big things I believe is that this never got into a testing and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "certification process for example for 802.11 there's the WFA testing and certification process people have to go through to get a logo for their access point or device they have to demonstrate that they support various deep methods can do radius Etc radius over dtls and TLS never made it to that process and part of the reason for that is they were not considered Deployable on large scale um so getting that certification process together and tying it to the logo is extremely important because once it gets into a mainstream certification basically if a device maker doesn't do one of these things they're not going to get the logo and that could be a problem for them so that's that's a big question I and I hope there's some people here who participate in the WFA process who can talk a little bit about what might be required to get to that point okay so where do we go from here well I think it is time to try to move ahead on phase two we're gonna have to uh recognize what it's going to take to get widely deployed and in particular get the device vendors on on board we haven't heard from them so far today uh but they're pretty critical because if you don't get them on board then you're never going to get over the deployment blockers and I think we've talked a little bit about support for TLS psk which is going to be very important but also there's questions about what's in the open source Library uh whether there's actually industry support for this we haven't really heard much from the device makers um and so the big question is do we have what it takes to really get over all the problems we've had so far um and I mentioned that radius deprecation is the final not the initial step right you have to have somebody Deployable before you deprecate the old thing thanks Bernard uh Stefan's yeah um so edurum is also participating in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "the Wi-Fi Alliance and um you brought up a very very good point there so um I've already pushed some work into the WFA specs before I think I know how to do it and once we have final rfcs out of this process here um I'm very happy to take this forward to WFA foreign this is Alan again yeah I I think in the end um these Solutions are not technical right they are political and administrative and the way to solve a lot of these deployment issues is mandating or public embarrassment um nothing else seems to have worked so far okay nobody else in the Q tanks burn herbs uh yeah I would just say uh and I again I would ask if there's anybody from WFA here but um you know basically if you can't convince people that this is Deployable you don't get to this stage of getting certification and at that point the embarrassment comes from the lack of certification but if you can't even convince the certification bodies to adopt it that it's testable and interoperable then you never get to that and at that point just deprecating radius will just cause chaos and probably will cost multiple profiles to form and you'll end up with a lack of interrupt okay uh yeah I think I could add that some things are easier to get into WFA specs than others and in this in this context here the transport for radius is something that is in the attribute altitude of 1x spec and um getting the WFA to enforce a specific deployment profile for something that isn't a difference back this may be a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "bit harder so it's it's a bit On The Fringe between where WFA is still can have a say and where it says yeah but actually says use a random authentication server protocol and it could be radio so it could be as radius or something else okay so that those are the the technical presentations we'll go back to uh chair slides in one second okay okay so um so I think I think the word there were there I think some earlier efforts to try and move some of these topics along that kind of somewhat foundered um and I think it might be worth it I'm not sure how many people in the room are in the remote are not familiar with the IDF so for many of you this will be obvious uh perhaps after all uh it could be that if a working group is formed here that the more the you know the common mode of operation that people use these days might help compared to previous efforts here in particular you can use things like VTech or the tool we're using today for interim meetings working groups tend to have a lot more interim meetings these days they're using GitHub repos with the drafts in them and the capping PRS and using issue traffic and so on that's all kind of more commonly used than was the case I think in previous uh efforts of the space were being made so I think and I think would likely help a working group to get to progress and I think the people who are opponents here seem happy enough that that would likely be a kind of a motorcycle okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "so um the next part of the agenda is uh we have half an hour um we're we're not sure of time so people want to talk more that's fine or everybody's happy we can move ahead but we have some draft Charter text which is kind of not ready um but uh what I'm going to do this it's on three slides I'm going to flick through them quickly and then go back and go through them a bit more slowly and invite people to discuss the points of them uh and there are no takers are kind of teed up to try and keep copious notes on this part of the agenda uh and I think hopefully if people if the buff is positive uh we'll have to go back and work on the charter text details on the list uh and then with the area director so with that this is the first slide if you've had a chance to look at the second one talks about some work items just giving you a moment to decide in your mind that you might want to come to the mic to talk about specific point in a minute and the third one has a couple more work items and one gigantic bullet point so okay so these are the this is the draft Charter text as we have it um so I think what we'd like to do now is get people to say you know I'd like to see this bit changed here's the kind of change I'd like to see so that we can then kind of progress that on the mailing list afterwards as it work into performing if we're successful so that was your now is the time when it'd be good for people to jump in the bike line and say this particular bit of text is great dumb it's changing here's the kind of change I would like okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "it's always better when somebody starts again uh yeah for this suggestions I think they are all good already on the slides but I might take there also the let's say there was this some discussion already about this kind of operation recommendations so what would be recommended and those things so that might be an addition to these ones and uh also watch the coordinates and mentioned here so that the thing I was commenting earlier about avoiding the overlapping work this kind of coordination between those trusts or is it kind of a already thought to be the point of working group already so I don't think there's any Charter text that says it would be a good idea for the working group to look at the set of drafts and then figure out how to refactor them but there's no text on that but adding some text on that that sounds like it might be a good idea right yeah yeah because that would kind of charge the quite a working group because the working group could then kind of coordinate for example to work for that change of authorization into reverse Direction and so on so that it could be then uh just be referred or added to the updated rrc66 14 for example right so yeah so I think that like having a milestone for the working group to sort of figure out which drafts it once and then try and adopt the the offerings that people have made yeah as a specific work items like that sounds like a good idea yeah hey was also commenting about some something uh especially about this uh radio server status updates and how to use them so this is something kind of larger because it affects multiple troughs there so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "this kind of coordination uh talking about this together is the kind of important thing there yeah all right thank you thank you Joe uh this is chair Sail Away um so here the draft Charter here mentioned something about compatibility between radius and diameter is that and it wasn't clear to me that that was just there was some mention of diameter but mostly in kind of an orthogonal context is is that something that we still want in uh yeah the first page second paragraph for the motor ensure backwards compatibility with existing videos and compatibility between radius and diameter sorry yeah we didn't catch that uh Alan said this was probably from the previous Charter okay um I think I would suggest dropping that because I didn't sound like that's a uh a really a desired uh you know it could be fine but I don't think that's something we really would want to take on with this work uh and the other thing was I think Bernard brought up the point that you know it's fine to deprecate it but if we we can't really deprecate it before we have something else that's feasible to deploy without causing a lot of trouble so just the ordering of that we just came first um probably want to just reorder that great thanks uh since we have other people in the queue but just just on the point of that diameter I didn't see anybody disagreeing with that but so if you do want to disagree with dropping that diameter points that it would be good to kind of get into my time to say that Chris yeah so I want to understand the be compatible with RFC 3539 because I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "took a quick look at that and it seems pretty old guidance um and if one of the complaints here is that there's not really transport agility in radius protocols that that seems like a shackle to have on and so I'm kind of confused why that's a goal for a question Adam I guess do you want to speak to that because I I I'm assuming this text was yours originally yes um this text was originally mine some from the previous Charter uh RFC 3539 is old but it's the current sort of Line in the Sand for what AAA protocol should do if we decide we don't care about it it would be good to explain why right rather than just going well people did all kinds of research years ago and we're simply going to pretend that never happened so we we can whether or not this is in the charter I don't know but it would be good to have a discussion saying yes or no to that Chris is behind you still I'm looking look you didn't look entirely convinced from here yeah well so I guess can we change that to say if we need to update it then we update it I mean because I again a quick look at that guidance I wouldn't want to say conform to it sure that sounds reasonable okay so just for the benefit of the minute takers do you want to make a semi-concrete suggestion as to what to put on the charter I wasn't I didn't quite get it exactly yeah I'll I'll try and write some texts to say that you know if if you know not complying or not being compatible with 35 39 then maybe 35 39 should be updated I guess another way to do it with you know to say if you're going to be incompatible just explain why that I can live with that yeah okay cool Bernard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:03",
    "text": "um so I'm the author of 3539 and really what that was developed to do was to investigate radius over alternative transports like sctp so you know the stuff in there would be relevant if you wanted to find radius over quick but if you were going to do that why would you need the other work in the charter right you wouldn't do radius over dtls you do radius over quick so I I don't understand why this reference to 3539 is there um if if we're really trying to focus on just getting this stuff to deployability talking about Alternatives where it's probably not a great thing to shut in there as well or updating 3539 that would probably also be a distraction so I would just remove this um thanks Bernard I see a thumbs up from the back of the room uh don't see anybody objecting so it sounds like the strike that bull seems like the consensus right now the room uh okay yeah also the text size which we have to be backward compatible with hospital at the same time we are starting work which is intentionally backwards and compatible with s radius so it's a bit more nuanced towarding might be good here it's just triviality but sure okay thank you yeah yeah speaking um just for the for the uh sake of having it in the minutes uh we talked a little bit about radius TCP so basically we what we're we're saying with Ellen's draft was uh don't use radius if it's unencrypted so um the question would be if we actually have to move 6613 to standards track um or if we can just deprecate it with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "the deprecating radius over UDP um but then we have a down reference clash with the new 6614 so um maybe that's something that we should uh keep in mind that's to the point where I'd be able to write the minutes uh Stefan did you catch up okay good he knows more about radius than me obviously so this this is Alan sorry yeah just just to that point the fewer documents the better if we if we can have a down ref I don't think 6613 needs to be changed there's a mechanism for doing a downrive things if that makes sense it could certainly be done yeah Bernard um just wanted to talk about mandating the use of tls13 I think that's a little bit premature it was discussed that supporting TLS one two and one three uh mandating one two and making one three recommended might make more sense and it also is good to have two versions so you're forced to get over the psk issue and and not force an upgrade of the psks um so I wouldn't mandate one three I think it's premature Okay so on any other reactions to the you know what to do about tls13 or TLS versions uh I I think what better if you're suggesting there is Monday one two and recommend how to use one three but don't necessarily mandate it yeah and and having two is good because then you you make sure that you can handle a version upgrade so it's up to have the charter say that you know TLS one two or better is mandatory and also Define how to use TLS one three if you're using that market"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:05",
    "text": "uh okay there I am um I just have the comment that tls12 is known to expose the certificate unencrypted and if we're going to mandate the use of tls12 and suggest one three um the only thing I would say is that we need to make sure that we understand exactly what's in the certificate and whether we are violating any sort of privacy given that it would be in the transport I assume we're talking about not in you know in the methods presumably we won't have user information in there but I'd like to at least think about what we'd be exposing um because we you know to make sure we actually are improving the security uh rather than making it worse yeah a couple good points so I'm not sure if that would need to be in the charter or not do you think that kind of text needs no no but I I don't think we want to switch what it's let's let's um take out the specificity about one two and one three from the charter rather than saying mandate one two because I don't think we should say mandate one two unless we're sure that's a good idea and I can't be sure that's a good idea thinking about it for 30 seconds so but okay but I think we do want to say TLS one two are better um what about saying mandate the use of TLS and I you could say something like if you have to you could say version to be determined but I think we could just say mandate the use of TLS and no one thinks we're going to go mandate 1.1 I don't know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:03",
    "text": "sorry uh yeah yeah Paul speaking briefly um I think this is uh maybe you just have to look in reference to the UTA TLS specification which is like a tilas for applications and and they actually have considerations that that talk about all these items so maybe look at that document for advice so that's that's BCP I can't remember what number does anybody know Roman uh it's it's the it's RFC 7525 fist though yeah so but it's the BCP number won't change right so but I know for instance in Eep TLS when we use it in the method um one of the trade-offs we have one of the issues that we have is that TLS 1.2 uh will expose um a username in realm in the certificate so it actually has less privacy than say eat peep if he peep is used with privacy turned on anonymization turned on uh and so we're sort of having weird trade-offs as we switch from one method to another and I just want to make sure we wouldn't run into those problems um with I I don't think the user ID or realm would be included um in this certificate but I'm not even really sure um so I don't know whether TLS 1.2 would be a good choice or not without knowing what's going to be included in the certificate Fair points I was just going to comment we're talking about BCP 195. okay so before we Charter here I mean we can check whether there's anything residual we want to say beyond that but that gives us the wiggle room for TLS one two versus one three okay so and I think Market's just a put a thought in your head in people's heads I think what Margaret's saying is that we should be careful about what um you know what data is being exposed and clear based on whatever we're doing so maybe there's a generic sentence we could put in that covers that that then would say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "that you know if tls12 presenting the server text in clear is a problem you shouldn't then you know that would steer the working group away from doing that yeah I'm not sure how to say that I think um we have to take into account that the way this is used in some places uh very widely people can tell whether someone is traveling people can tell where that person is physically located this isn't about some sort of tracking of web use or something which I I also think is bad but we're not talking about we're talking about very important needs for privacy um here so I just want to make sure we we know what's in that certificate that's all right so that and I think more generally we could we could maybe try and craft a sentence for the charter that says that the working group should um you know pay a lot of attention to possible metadata leakage of things like user identifiers or locations and so on yeah I'm sure we can vote for some words about that sounds good great thanks Rick hi my name is Rick foreign I'm with the upper 2 project um the thought that I'm getting here is we all want to go towards Steelers 1.3 if we can but there's a backlog would it be an idea to say tls12 expires in two or three years from now and then it has to be upgraded TLS 1.3 it's just an idea sure I I I I I I I wonder about the practicality of that and even if it was practical that this wouldn't be the right group of people to do that I think TLS is kind of more broadly used than just hello this is so I my understanding is that DLS 1.2 is good enough when you want to set up or secure Communication channel but TLS 1.3 is much better when you want to hide things like client server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "certificates so with this kind of uh help in the sense that what is more important because there's the plus point of deals 1.2 is that it's more widely implemented so it's probably easier to get it up and if it's cool enough from the Privacy perspective then it can be used but 1.3 would be preferred if it's working yeah yeah yes I'm kind of I'm sensing kind of broad agreement about that they have to figure out some words that kind of represent it well in the charter but I think the the intent of everybody seems fairly clearly thanks I wouldn't object to just removing the sentence mandate the use of TLS 1.3 um because that does if we take that out it doesn't forbid us from later mandating the use of TLS 1.3 if we decide that's the right thing to do um I would not like us to say mandate the use of TLS 1.2 gotcha yeah yeah uh just to respond to that I I think it's Tails 1.3 has been around for a while it takes long enough to deploy things I'd be very very in favor of just going you know what it'll take long enough to write the standard it should mandate one three because it will still be three or four years before everyone supports it if the longer we wait it'll be a decade before people start really deploying kill us and again there's a bunch of thumbs up at the back of the room there again for that point um yeah so I think the takeaway is that you know that there's some subtle Charter text needed to resolve this issue but the real decisions would happen after working with the forums and okay so we don't have anybody else in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "the queue for that set of bullet points we can yeah we're not touch our time so we will it's possible to go back if somebody wants to but let's go forward in the meantime so Mrs Allen um the first bullet point is implemented seems to be okay the second bullet point is just thrown out we may not need it we may we may need it we may not um and the third one is a very very long way of saying a small amount of information um and some of that text is in fact wrong the last sentence um is really no this is AF I ended up writing the S radius draft in implementation after the charter text and after going through the draft and implementation it's just a transport the contents of radius packets are unchanged so that last sentence are the last sentence is wrong so just last sentence or two is just delete it right so so we had a quick chat about this earlier and I think for me to meet if that last bullet which is very long was you know it should be possible to take the output of this working group and implement it in a way that it's compliant yes yes so I think that was that was that what I thought radius without md5 once you use TLS there's no point in using md5 to encrypt your passwords because they're already protected by TLS so just send them not in the clear but send them inside the application layer of the TLs tunnel and then everything's fine and you can send Chap you can send Ms chat you can send vendor attributes you can do whatever you want so this this s radius here is just a transport profile"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "it doesn't change the content or meaning of anything other than message Authenticator okay so that so okay that that's sounds like that this big glass bullet should turn into two short bullets one says it should be possible to have a Phipps compliant implementation that's a goal another one says do you want to just give me some words without the second I'm sure I'll look what I have a secure transport or um what Margaret says on the list is fine Define a variant of radius that's fips compliant okay all right so so Margaret has some text in the in the chat room that she suggested to replace that entire last bullet yeah you you don't need to say don't shoot yourself in the foot some people have enough feeds that they want to do it all the time followers but but I'm still a little concerned that the um throwing out md4 and md5 on one side um and the remaining backwards compatible for deployment isn't going to conflict and I think we're talking about and I'm not a radius expert I think we're talking about both transport and there's also content inside that might maybe be using these algorithms right so I'm not entirely sure I just don't understand exclude anything or at least after consideration that we're not just talking about transport we're also talking about the content yeah um so yes ignore the last two sentences they're wrong once I implemented it and wrote the draft it's transport if you want to do chap which is md5 or Ms chap which is md4 it's perfectly fine um it's just if you choose to do the S radius transport and Ms chat then you're still not fips compliant but so what that's your choice you're the one who takes the MS chat data and authenticates it for everyone else in the network they just see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "packets right they they see this Ms chat data they don't care what it is they don't have to do any md4 on it so what this transport does is gets rid of the md5 signing for the packets and gets rid of the md5 encryption for the user password essentially everything else is the same so does that answer your question maybe not probably um I just want to make sure that there is no remaining dependency on md5 even if there's an outer transport layer protecting the inside I'd say that's a site Choice a deployment site if you want to use chap or Ms chat you can I don't I don't think we should deprecate those in yes yes so yeah we shouldn't deprecate Chopper Ms chap in this document this is just transport so yeah Joe you joined the cube briefly was that just a button okay good thanks Bernard I just wanted to comment on this which is the way the servers work in fips mode is um they essentially turn off the cryptographic operations so when you're operating in fips mode you don't have access to md4 and md5 um and so you don't need to deprecate the attributes that has nothing to do with it it's just that the you need to Define how the server behaves in the absence of these cryptographic operations that's basically what it is think about it as trapping arrows you'll attempt to make a call to M4 md5 and it just will return an error because that cryptographic operation isn't there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "right yeah yeah so I think the tax Market put in the chat room uh seems like a type of uh basically she suggests that we say Define a variance that is compliant is the thing we should Charter yeah yeah but it's not deprecating the attributes that that has nothing to do with it it's just it's yeah yeah people are nothing when you say that yeah yeah first yeah um so I've been listening to the discussion I've been reading the text and you know it does occur to me that a lot of this discussion and a lot of this text is a little over prescribed for most Chargers um you know you don't need to decide today whether you're in the buff whether TLS 1.2 and 1.3 is going to be used or you know various cryptography you need to say that you're going to solve that problem and have the discussion later um so you're to some extent holding the working group in the buff that can be a good sign that people kind of know what they want to do they just got the details on on that second bullet on this slide uh Alan kind of sorry about that well I was just going to say the charter text is too long it would be another way of saying what I'm saying right you can reduce it down to to just the problem fully agree I think you you kind of postulated that second bullet as a maybe that maybe maybe not got a thing I'm just looking yeah did other people think this doing this is a good idea or not worth bothering with or again should we leave it here eliminate it any opinions I'd be in favor of eliminating it um the only thing I could think of we might need to do with time or date types is the status realm draft maybe may need something greater than second resolution but that's a problem for that draft and not for the charter sure okay uh Alexander hi hi Alex from core mem I'm kind of interested in the 64 date type but with milliseconds or microsecond resolution"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "personally if particularly if uh the draft about trace route for radius goes through that'd be really helpful Okay so so what I'm hearing is support for doing some work in that area but that we don't think that again needs to be mentioned at a territory level because it'll happen when people get to those documents so so I think the current suggestion is you know we'd strike that particular bullet Phil yeah uh on the second bullet on the date thing it strikes me that you might be boxing yourself into a particular approach in that if you you're probably not going to get rid of that 32-bit type and I do not believe that you're going to need to specify a date with specificity uh within a century uh for purposes of radius so a 32-bit value is probably going to be sufficient so long as you have implementations that wrap appropriately okay okay so I think we're suggesting to ditch that particular bullet because you know work in that space adding milliseconds or whatever will will happen just in the course of awareness as the working group proceeds okay so that's that is the charter text uh what I'm going to do is just go back to it one more time see if anybody's forgotten something they wanted to object to or or something that's missing that should be there um so I'm going to give you one last shot of this uh in for the next couple of minutes might be quite boring just watching the same text again but just in case we came from Cisco um on a slide number two there is like like UDP maybe better to say not even udptcp but let's say I'm secure transport like unsecured common four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:04",
    "text": "it's the deprecating UDP should probably be deprecating either insecure transport or deprecating UDP and TCP okay Paul speaking maybe not say UDP because if someone at some point wants that quick support that uses UDP gets really confusing okay so uh since you're one of our note takers I assume you can make a good note about that particular voice thank you and Margaret in the chapter likes the phrase deprecating insecure transport and here's our third slide I'm Charter text again as we discussed it already that will change quite a bit of course okay so I'm not saying anybody in the queue um I just want to do another kind of last check that you know that as discussed that this kind of charter is complete enough from people uh yeah yeah speaking uh can you go back one slide um for the uh TLS um I'm not exactly sure if adding TLS server name indication also needs to be in the chart and maybe it's okay to to remove it and we can decide whether we want to implement it or not uh somewhere down the road yeah I think that's a fair point uh I'm also doing you know I do some work on encrypted clientele as well so if you are going to do something based on SNR you need to be careful about the fact that it could be encrypted in the future Margaret um I just wanted to say from the status realm stuff which I wrote so obviously have opinions about um we have a fairly complete draft it it may need changes to match what the working group would want and we have an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "implementation so I wonder if we would like to include it in the charter from the beginning or not sure and I I haven't read the draft it is linked to the the agenda materials that people want to look at it but what what would you you know what would be a kind of a short bullet you would put in the in the charter to reflect us um uh um improve operations for multi-hop proxy Networks ping like you know ping uh ad ping like and trace route like functionality and loop detection and prevention none of which we have now it's like it's like operating in 1980s host trial based network with no ping no trace route and no Loop prevention right okay so I think Stefan looks like he's making notes that are good there uh um so yeah I think the point is to include something like pink right and there is a draft that people can look at now um you know that could be the working group could look at adopting that early on I don't see anybody objecting to or not head shaking kind of thumbs down kind of stuff about adding such a thing wrong uh I just wanted to ask a clarifying question are we exactly sure those are The Primitives we want and only those Primitives or in the charter again do we want to generalize a little bit because it begs questions like when you say ping like what do you mean to be ping-like and we want more than that yeah well I mean we could say uh there's currently a thing called um status server and it lets you check the status of a server it's effectively like a pink so we could say a multi-hop status server uh functionality and loop detection and prevention if we wanted to say it in more radius-like terms but that that got a bunch of thumbs up so that sounds like text that people so thanks yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "okay Margaret could you could you put that in the chat room and uh for the just so Stefan can grab it in the minutes correctly okay and again on the point of kind of completeness we're not nobody's identifying other other things that are missing from a charter that I'd like to see all right so let's just edited um okay yep Clark Donnelly also of painless Security on the last point the the the um multi-hop uh network operations I prefer to have that be more open-ended rather than listing off specific items or if we're going to list off specific items put it at least those specific items because I imagine that as we go forward I think we're going to find more things that we wanted to uh consider for for working like Realm Discovery or what have you okay uh which I think goes along the lines you're saying perhaps not executive but uh if you could have a look at that and see does it kind of meet your requirements of account but I think it does you just use the typing as you walk one of the things I don't want to do and even though it might sound like I do is I don't want to do well while we have the hood open right um I don't think we should just Implement every good idea if there's not a reason to believe that it's been implemented in the case like the loop detection most people have who operate multi-hub networks have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "implemented some sort of vendor-specific option for that in the case of uh the status server-like multi-hop stuff we we have status server already we have an implementation of it already um I think we need to be really careful not to just write a charter that that asks people to submit as many good ideas as they can think of so I think we want to try to be I don't know somewhere between listing the things we think are a good idea and having some openness for operational stuff and just soliciting more ideas and I'm not sure how best to word that but sure yeah I think it's a fair points that you know there can be a tendency to people keep producing drafts and offering them and that could get distracting so so yeah I think we'd like to have some so I I guess we'd like to have a little phrase somewhere in the charter that says you know these are the work items where these specific things are what we want the working group to be chartered for uh you know extensions beyond that would need recharing or something it's a generic kind of thing and you know in real life people ignore the out of that kind of stuff later on anyway so it's worth the try but yeah uh yeah when it comes to these uh good ideas that that come floating in um some of these tools like Ping and trace route might actually yield an error reason uh but radius never got a natural error Response Code um there is one you can use at limited points so do we want to consider also introducing an error response packet so that you can report back on errors new topic error response well there's a response thing defined in the status Realm packet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:03",
    "text": "there's also protocol error I forget which RFC there there is that defined but yeah so uh we seem to have come back to it uh because a while back somebody said well you know it takes 10 years whatever for changes to get through into the infrastructure so one of the things that I think is important to bear in mind is make sure that you solve the problems now when you're making changes that you're going to want to have changed in 10 years time because you know I've been coming to these meetings for a long time now and many times people have said it'll be 10 years before you can do that will be deployed and then 15 years later we've got the same problem because nobody deployed the solution so if you're going to change stuff make sure you do all the changes you need so that people can move to an environment where we're not using passwords at all we're getting rid of all the Hokey security and we're doing the stuff properly okay so I think I have to the work where the chart detection go we can confirm that on the list but we're not the point in the box where we have the usual questions um and one of the parts of the box is that people always want to quibble about the question and ask a different question um we'll see if that happens but the questions I'm going to ask are listed on the slide if you would like to disagree with those questions then that was the time or this might be one of the rare occurrences where that disagreement doesn't happen let's see you've got a unicorn on your head"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "all right so these are the questions you want to ask them this is kind of this provides input to the area directors and other people in the isg and iob as to whether a working group should go ahead and be formed facing the spot so the first event is you know is the problem statement clear well scope solvable and useful to solve so we have a polling tool in the where is it is show offensive okay I'm just going to type question one and if you think that the the problem statement is as well so you want to give a positive answer raise your hand if you'd like to give a negative answer then click the do not write down okay that's looking pretty one-sided so far we just give it another second okay so for the minutes then if you can record that we we seem to have landed at 29-0 uh in the positive sense for that one great um so we're on to question two and this would be a shocker if it's uh if the IDF is not the place to maintain an ITF protocol so if you think the ietf is the right place for maintaining an ITF protocol then yeah raise your hand s [Laughter] [Music] does anybody want to admit being the one the one do not raise answers it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "okay that seems to be settling down pretty well so again for the minutes that's 35 humans and one bot so I'm sorry and okay so question three uh so here we're looking for uh you know people who are willing to review drafts so there's there's an existing set of drafts and you can see them linked from the materials uh and I guess what I'm looking for is who's willing to review those drafts so I so in the room you can kind of put your hand up if you're in the if you're remote and you're willing to review drafts can you just give some kind of positive signal online in the chat room so keep your hands up just like give a rough count that's like I'm saying about a dozen people in the room hands raised being willing to review drafts and they're as you might expect they're mostly some of the people who came to the mic that made useful contributions so that looks good and we have uh but four more uh folks who are most uh have indicated so that that that's my you know 16 or so people willing to review graphs that seems like the same kind of number for me for this kind of group and question four then who's willing to edit drafts this is typically a smaller number but we have one two three I see five hands in the room one was half up um and a couple online as well which I would you know I think if we had five or seven people would expect I suspect they might suck in some other contributors to be co-authors at some point um and again that seems like a reasonable number to me so that's about seven people willing to have according to a couple of minutes uh and then the the payoff uh so assuming we fix the charter text which will happen on the mailing list in the next short while um we'll top out the minute the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "minutes will be out pretty soon and we'll take a stab of crafting some draft checks chatter texts that matches today's outcome uh so assuming that work gets done and doesn't get screwed up uh who thinks that the IDF should perform a working group with this Charter with that Charter as it will be so I'm going to ask the question in the polling Tool uh question five is should should this be go ahead and be a successful buff and result in a working group as discussed uh raise your hand if you think it should be click the do not raise hand button if you think we should not go ahead so that's about the same number as we got for previous polls of uh for the record that's 35 raise hands and zero not raise times Stefan can I ask you to do one more poll of course of course um who here like if you're a vendor are you likely going to implement the result of this working group so are you interested in vendors I'm interested in implementations implementer sorry yes so the question is if you're if you're an implementer would you will you will you will you likely implement this work so I'll change it to will you do you expect to is that from your prayer request so we have a poll if you're an implementer do you expect something that the output of the working group as we discussed it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "and if we get 36 for this that would be interesting there we go so we have one not right out uh just with that person like to join the you know open their microphone or go to the microphone here and and say why you don't have to but if you could that might use it as it is we have you know we have nine people have said that they would expect to implement and won't be said no but we don't have further information that's that's what we have okay so how do I get back to seeing this letter there we are so that's the questions with results and I guess at this point we hand over to our esteemed area director to see uh no um I was I was going to ask um if you wanted to ask I think there are ourselves but other operators in the room whether you wanted to ask whether operators would deploy it um but I think that you might have already gotten the impression that we will because we probably voted on one of the other polls so I'm looking at the area director do you want to ask that poll or are you okay with those okay we go back to the folding tool and so the question here is if you're an operator would you expect to use the podium if I could type it would be good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "so they go there's a poll if you're an operator uh uh would you expect to deploy the outputs as discussed and that's yeah so we have 12 raise times one not right side again if the person who's doing the not raise hand giving the negative feedback would like to give us more detail that would be great but you don't have to okay so then we have 12 both hands and one notch for that okay so that again I think that brings us to the point where our esteemed ID will so um first of all thank you very much for for everybody who was here who decided to come here share their opinions this was very useful um this was more or less one of my first Buffs where I was in charge and there's no controversies it seems so it's very nice to see um I just wanted to state so I will I will talk to Roman we'll we'll you know we'll officially let you all know soon what we'll do uh meanwhile if you have things you want to say to us um that you're not comfortable with walking to the microphone for please feel free to catch me in the hallways or send me a ping over email or whatever so feel free to reach out and talk to me if you have any concerns any additional comments and uh I guess we'll get back to you soon I'm not sure if Roman have anything to add thank you everyone for coming it seems like we have fairly strong consensus to move forward here so this is exciting good good so I think on the basis of that it would probably make sense for the proponents to go into a huddle and do some editing of Charter texts to kind of help you out with the next steps yep okay so that's that's an action on on the uh yeah fairly obvious people at the world uh and again having made that edit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "please we have to make sure that gets sent to the English to review and and so maybe one last Point um provided we would actually from a working group we will need chairs ETFs that are not reviewers and that are not document editors so if you have a feeling that you could be good or useful in that position or if you think you want to be a Shepherd for these documents please also reach out to us um so we uh get better better people hopefully to um or it would be nice if you can get people that have a little more radius experience in just grabbing random people from the street but um but they do need to be they do need to not conflict with people actually doing the work sure yeah and and just so it's clear I volunteered for today I did not volunteer for uh so so there will be a real kind of requirement to look for chairs what can be okay so with that thanks I think that's a successful open well done um and we'll follow up on the mailing list with the ideas Etc and then good time to go get a beverage so thank you and thanks sorry thanks to the minute takers uh as well and also actually thank you very much Stephen for doing this on a fairly short term notice when I reached out for panic just take a minute to copy this I just copy the notes as they are before they or in case they disappear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:17",
    "text": "all right"
  }
]
