[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "says that Pete's going to be late but I see him here so I hope that just means he's at least listening um so uh let's go ahead and get started the first thing we need to do though is find a note taker can uh somebody take notes in The Ether pad please Russ I'll uh try to do my best here um I I I have to say I'm having some trouble with hedg do on my system though so it may be good I just tried to open it up and and actually it's pretty Grim for me so um maybe you need to pick somebody else until I can figure this out okay can somebody else do it please I'm hoping that uh somebody will put their hand up besides Elliott okay I'm in there now with looks like Robert's helping out a little bit here too so I'll I can take more all right cool all right so we have a pretty straightforward agenda we're we're in the middle of uh the working group Last Call on 7 990 updates uh it's been very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "Lively discussion and um I'm going to ask the authors in a minute to uh lead us through um the open issues that they see and then um if there's any time left we'll turn to um the the not asky document um that's uh BAS basically been pushed to the back burner over 7990 but is next in in our attention I do want to remind people that uh while this group is not part of the ITF uh or is not an ITF working group we are following the note well for the ITF so please make sure that you know uh what your rights Privileges and responsibilities are uh regarding in the note well so with that I'm going to turn it to Paul I think to lead through the open issues well I wasn't expecting that the chairs didn't ask us to be leading this um I sorry I did not know that you were going to ask us to do that so I will give a brief overview of where I think we're at um and then other people will probably say what they think the open issues are so um the chair started the working group last call a little bit ago we got as Russ said you know lots of good participation uh Heather and I Heather's not on the call um Heather and I put in um lots of changes for the easy stuff especially editorial we made guesses on what what we thought would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "non-controversial um and put those in as well and I put out yesterday and two sorry about that uh rollups of what we've done so far on 04 um we asked whether the chairs want us to do a 05 with all the rollups during the last call uh uh we haven't had much response on that and I think that's fine we're happy to continue to do rollups we're happy to do an' 05 during the working group last call whatever the chairs want um there are a couple of issues where some people have uh come back multiple times saying this is important this is important and have not gotten much other input from other people so I believe those should be considered open issues but I'm not I don't have a way of moving it forward so I don't want to ask ask people do you consider this important um people either feel like things are important or not um uh one of those is from Jay Daly on adding a a bunch of new actual definitions because he got confused about um the use of the term version in the document I fixed the individual or we fixed the individual places where he said he was confused um and that's reflected in the rollup um we may still want to do more definitions or not um and uh there is a little bit of discussion I wouldn't say superactive but on the removal of the prohibition on comments uh Martin Dorst who is on the call today uh responded to that I've responded others have folks have responded um and there are probably other issues that I am not thinking of and I apologize to whomever if I have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "ignored your issue um but we haven't seen much discussion and again please if you think something's important please start a new thread um it's really hard with various threading to figure out for people to follow what's important and what's not um so we're we're happy to do whatever the working group wants on um either put out an ' 05 or do another rollup uh on issues such as Jay's I don't want to just go ahead and throw that stuff in because that's like a major change throughout but if the working group comes to consensus as determined by the chairs that that's what should go in we can certainly do that we can do it carefully as a um change that you know like a set of changes saying is this what people expected sort of as a rollup and then if if that works out okay that's back um Elliott actually also put something in today um which would affect a bunch of individual places in the document um specifically around the N you know like when we're updating 9280 we should be saying explicitly where that's happening and exactly how um I know that 9280 is a hot topic for certain people so that may also um one but that just came up today so we don't haven't had much movement on it so that's all I've got um y'all didn't ask for slides so I didn't do slides so uh back to you Russ fair enough I I did not ask for slides but uh I did tell you this would be the first topic um and and some things have been discussed right up uh to the call uh but I I I note that um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "Martin proposed a different terminology than uh J and uh I think that would be a good thing to sort out if people have opinions on that uh Robert go ahead Robert your hands up go ahead yeah I apologize I was talking into a muted mic can you hear me now yes all right so apologies for interrupting um Paul asked several times if an5 would serve better than um on list rollups and I'd like to put a a vote in for revising early and often um revisions during working group last call I think for a group of this size and for the topics that we're working on um I think would be constructive and not a distraction uh does anybody want to disagree with Robert okay I'm not hearing that uh um anyone disagree so uh Paul please uh um you know post something and uh I I could totally understand holding off on a big terminology change until there's consensus but on the other ones uh uh that you're you're ready to commit go ahead and post sure um it will be the rollup plus there is one poll request waiting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "um on Heather and I'll give it another day um since we've got we put out the roll up yesterday I don't think we're in a super rush but we're happy to do an' 05 um and if as we're doing this people are like no this is wrong we can stop but I'm happy to do an' 05 in the short run okay we've seen uh several plus ones in the chat for the posting of' 05 um Robert you're still at the queue who is that old hand okay Brian go ahead yeah hi um this is really a point that may be obvious but I don't want to see us declare final rough consensus on this unless we've heard from both the tools side of the house and the RPC side of the house that there is nothing they can't live with if you see what I mean because you know if it can't be implemented whatever it is we we shouldn't be approving it okay uh good point and we will uh reach out to them explicitly before we make the consensus call uh for the at the end of the working group last call and I hope they will join the participation the discussion if they see anything that is uh problematic Paul uh so two things uh on what what Brian just said I would add a third which would be it would be great if the stream managers would also weigh in I don't think we can ask the rsab as a body to weigh in but or at least for the stream maners to say we've seen this and we don't see we don't have um we don't see anything that can't be done um some of the stream managers have different views on what can and can't be done so so um that would be helpful so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "that we don't get a late surprise from the rsab um I was kind of presuming given that they are for the most part actively participating that we'd hear from them one way or the other but a the chairs pinging them directly uh is probably a good thing I think so for the same reason as you know we see Robert here but we can't assume tools and such like that uh you know we we see folks from the RPC we can't assume that I don't think pings are inappropriate for please tell us whether we should stop um I also would like to say that um even if I've done an ' 05 and the or' 06 and I'm sorry we I keep saying me but it's Heather and I um and the working group last call finishes I wouldn't mind a second working group Last Call on the last thing it might be a short one and it might be for objections only um but given that we've already changed a bunch and I suspect that we'll have at least one or two more significant changes before the end of work group last call having everybody read it fresh I mean we certainly have seen some people having not read um it the 04 that carefully and remembering the 03 totally fine I do that all the time in the technical working groups um a fresh uh possibly short work group last call I think would not hurt us at all well we've already heard today a a a scream for it's not done so I don't think we're in danger of of that uh just yet but uh we we will make sure that uh people are aware that when when we think the document has become stable and we're getting there to make sure they have an opportunity to uh to scream if there's something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "remaining um Paul is that an old hand okay Eric yeah I don't want to be like too sticky on the process question and I'm happy to have us ping all these people but there is a venue for them to reject and that is the RSB and so I don't think we should wait on the responses Beyond a reasonable care fair enough I think we just need to uh say hey it's getting stable would you make sure you're you're uh you've taken a look that seems fine okay uh Elliot hello can you guys hear me all right yep go ahead okay um so first of all uh thanks to Paul and Heather for taking on uh this document it's um uh a bit of a learning experience uh all around right we're we're learning our processes still I think and um we're having to understand what it is we approved in in 9280 um and how this document relates to that document I'm one of those people who's being a bit of a stickler about that um what uh I wanted I want to say a couple of things about that the first is that 9280 calls upon the stream managers just as Paul said uh to participate um for exactly the reason Paul said this was brought up in the development of that document repeatedly Often by me um but others as well the um other comment that I wanted to make um was that I too am interested in the RPC um evaluation of or at least the interpretation of what they're being asked to do so that we're at least of the same mind as to what will happen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "when this document is approved um finally um I'm also the person who when when Paul said that I um asked that we call out 9280 changes specifically the ones that I think are most important are actually the the ones that impact the U what are called the historical policies in section 7 of 9280 um in that document it says right in the um Chapo of that section that these are the things that we should give extra scrutiny to which by the way um is a frustrating thing if you happen to be an author and you're trying to get the work actually through the process so let's acknowledge that um but there are as I mentioned I think there are two things going on there the first is that we are explicitly making a change to se we we are making a change to section 7.6 which which talks that talks about how rfc's don't change once published and um so I think we should basically do what we do in the you know in an RFC or something like that where we say you know in in off 48 where we say old new or or was will be or or something like that and then what we the other thing we're doing is we are I believe implicitly at the moment but perhaps should be explicitly adding a new policy which is about consistency of the series being a good reason um to update uh existing rfc's so these are things that I think should be called out a little bit more explicitly in terms of how how the what was changed and what's new and I think using that sort of framework that we have in section 7 of 9280 is actually a good one um but it might also be the case if we decided to make changes in section three or other places of 90280 we would do the same thing the other thing um that means too though if we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "really only changing section seven is that we don't have to go to the other bodies um is as described in the in the rather lengthy change process so anyway uh thanks very much again for for taking on the document sorry my comments are a bit long okay I don't see anyone in the queue um ell yes Elliott's voice was coming and going but I I was able to figure out what he was saying did anybody else uh does anyone need him to repeat anything okay so we're good um are there any other Hot Topics that people would like to discuss that have already been uh posted on the mail list or not Jay thanks well we we could just if we've got the time since it looks like we have talk about the um my concern that Paul's already talked about would you like me to do that or you want to Yes uh especially if you're going to cover Martin's perspective or your response to Martin's perspective I don't fully understand Martin's perspective so no I I can't do that okay but mine is very very simple um RSC RFC 7990 says at the the the at the very front of it the canonical format of the RFC series will be transitioning from plain text asy to XML using blah blah blah okay so we have this thing called a canonical format and when we go and under the this new draft we have no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "way to refer to RFC XML as either canonical format definitive format or anything like that um the only term that I can see that is consistent with this new draft is the format of the definitive version so all I'm suggesting is that we add a very simple definition that says RFC except that or there is a thing called a different ative format it is RFC XML there are things called publication formats they are PDF plain text you know could be more that's all that's literally just the smallest thing there that I'm trying to do um because then that clears up all of the potential misunderstanding that can come from the language that talks about what can be changed and what can't be changed okay responses to what uh um go ahead that Paul so Jay I if that's all you're asking for I misunderstood I thought you wanted those two new definitions sprinkled throughout the document and used whenever for example we were talking about RF cxml if you just want to say somewhere at the top um this is is and again we don't everyone agreed months ago that we don't like canonical but definitive format for the series and then not have to keep saying that throughout when we're talking about no no reason to keep saying it whatsoever I have no problem with that at all I I I what I didn't want was to have to be sprinkling all the new stuff throughout other folks might have comments on this but I think that's just fine and that gives us an opportunity which we tried to work with I think it was either the 0 or the 01 and then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "we just gave up of trying to explain to say that 7990 muffed this by having two different you know definition we can now then say that in a place and say this one has now become this and this one has now become this and do that like probably I would say up in the introduction yeah I've provided text for that on you did but I thought you wanted that text throughout the document no no no that's just a replace it's just a change of the definitions that fixes it I am happy with that if other folks are as well right thank you I'm sorry if I made it very complicated to understand that through the messages Robert go ahead when Jay's second definition about the publication perat goes in um in anywhere in the documents that we're working on that we list text HTML PDF please be careful to word it as such as text HTML PDF so that we we don't have a list that we have to clean up if we ever have a new format come along or we decide to drop one okay Pete yeah I just want to speak hatless to one thing that was in Jay's comment that I want us to be careful of please let's avoid using the words human readable um I know what Jay meant um but that's just going to open up a rat hole and people are going to start complaining about silliness um because PDF is not human readable for some version of those words so let's come up with presentation format or some other way of describing what those are publication formats Etc but human readable is not what we want"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "humanely readable um Eric go ahead so maybe I'm starting to misunderstand what J wanted and maybe think I want something bigger um which is I think it's great I think it's actually super important of a distinction between the the the format which to say XML and a document in that format or um which is say you know which is say specific RFC XML the same thing through for for you know for text and and and PDF and if the document if we merge those in in the document anywhere they should beigua with new new terms so um I guess maybe so I'm a little concerned by what I thought I heard Jay and Paul talking about um because I thought Jay was right initially and now I'm worried can can I explain to Absolut absolutely please do thanks so no no the the document has a term definitive versions which is documents in a definitive format is just missing the definitive format bit so we're talking about adding that so you get the differentiation between the two terms okay that seems little me as long as we make sure that no as make sure that that's used you know consistently through the document where needed and and I've remembered what Martin's Point was as well by the way yes his is the archive point I was going to raise it and I guess I wanted to quickly ask Paul do you believe from that discussion that we just had that you understand what text needs to go in or you I do I do but this is an example where I would like to um do things um in the GitHub repo that is I'll say on the list I think this poll request is what we want um simply because it'll be in a couple of places um so my intention is to come up with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "that wording um I might do the 05 first just so that we've got that going but come up with that wording uh clear it with Heather and then send out a a poll request you know or or say yeah or just a comment list I think that sounds fine get rolled into 05 what seems easy now and then if you've got still got some concerns about how you're going to word this put a proposal out on the list that's fine exactly and again I think for things where um a individual issue has touched many parts of the document um somebody looking at the diff and the poll request is a lot easier than me saying and here and here so in dealing with Elliott's issue I think that will be a similar situation that's fine so the the let me summarize uh Martin's Point that Jay was just talking about that one at any one moment there is only one definitive version of the RFC and the others are superseded and he called them archived but I don't care what word we use but we need to come up with something that addresses that distinction I believe can can I just say the problem with Martins is that you then end up with the archived definitive version and the definitive Definitive I understand that's why I said superseded previously definitive versions or something make R of this and I I expect us not to get it right the first time but I think with people looking at diffs and just looking at the diffs um we'll get some thoughtful thinking on this the warning here is definitely going to be important because going back to the concern that some people have o the lawyers um when a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "lawyer says show me the thing we can say this is the thing and this is the things that were before the thing and it would be nice if we had vocabulary that made those reasonably different and and or at least clear sorry and if you want to propose text you know with different terminology that you think will separate that cleanly go ahead just yeah I'll make I'll make one shot and if people want to word Smith on the one shot I don't consider word smithing here to be bike shedding at all I consider not this this this is Meaningful by by the way Russ there was some comment in the chat that you are overdriving your mic a bit might okay I'll I'll turn that back um we have no one in the queue at the moment I guess Robert wanted to tell me that yeah I did but I'll go ahead and jump in the Q um now to have a real quick conversation with um Eric um you had asked Eric me to for me to give an example of the concerns that I had about um managing a pile of documents um speaking of the archive things um when we're staring at these as a um well-groomed and ordered set of things as we're defining them right now yeah sure it's it's dead easy and we can move but I'm looking at what we've done with a great many other things like this in the past and I'll point to the proceedings for all of the past ietf meetings and how time and technology has changed changed How We Gather those and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "managing the pile is it's just proving to not be as easy as it looked like it was going to be from the front and I was just wanting to make sure that people kept in mind that there is a cost to keeping every extra thing that we keep I hope my microphone's doing better Eric I assume you want to respond to that yeah I mean not too F put too fun point in it but like I think that's because the information architecture of the previous stuff is not designed very well we have like I mean we have like experience with like Version Control Systems which can handle tens to hundreds of thousands of files with like thousands of Visions each um for like for like 10 20 years and so like if we can't man and and like those have don't your history they have merges they have all kinds of nut nutty stuff it's the idea that we can't like handle like you know 10,000 documents Each of which has maybe 20 revisions I mean like we got to on information AR that or how can we hope to go the internet yeah I I like this and I would like to see that if we make a pile like this that we consider something like putting things under some sort of Version Control but conversations about that in the past have been oh no that's just way too heavy and unnecessary let's just stick some file you know stick some dates in the file names and and everything is great yeah I agree with you I I think virin control is right answer thank you I suspect that uh Brian wants to respond to that uh if you do please get the queue um Paul uh so as somebody who's employed by a a fairly public facing organization who has screwed up the just stick dates on the end um and keep the old URLs around and no one can tell what the new new one is um yeah we absolutely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "need Version Control even if when someone says oh I don't understand Version Control I want this or this we have to do some handholding that is infinitely better um than the uh than doing it by dates or or things like that and I say this as someone who just had to had to like when someone said oh look at this this document that I can published it seems out of date and the answer is yeah it is out of date unfortunately you just didn't have an easy way of finding the new one okay Jay thanks so there's only there's one thing about the archiving that I've I've mentioned some time ago but hasn't picked up that that concerns me and that's um the phrase these archived sets must be available using the same access methods as for the XML and the published publication versions um been good if we had some more understanding of that because it seems to suggest they need to be you know sort of in the same place easily accessible whereas what we're talking about potentially here is that the archive stuff goes off somewhere else and is in a separate archive and accessible in some other way okay Brian uh yeah I mean the reason I keep going on about uh time stamps is we don't even have that today right uh I'm absolutely in favor of a Version Control System there there's no doubt about it but um if you don't even have a Tim stamp in the ancient documents you can't even retrofit Version Control so that's the only reason I keep going on about it okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "Eric um yeah I mean um I mean I think I guess I do think this needs to be fible I mean I don't know I don't know what the same mechanism means or whatever like that really means but like you know like I I think what we owe people is that when you go and you look at version 20 of this document you're able to readily determine version 19 like using the same like rough technology which I think means like if it's the web it means there better be a link that takes you to 19 off of 20 um and so you can see what happened between 19 and and 18 19 and 20 whatever right um otherwise like that like that's what we owe people right um and like I could live anything about that c cral numbering whatever like I'm just saying like you shouldn't have to like I I said version control and I think Version Control is the right answer for like keeping the data in place but like you shouldn't have to like you know get pull the repository in order to like figure out what happened between version one and version two okay um Elliot and then Alexis all right I'll try to speak slower and hopefully you'll hear me better I I don't know um I was just thinking that we're probably to the point where somebody needs to propose whatever textu will change to cover what we're talking about here if it whatever virgin control means in the cont context of a policy um I feel like we're a little bit in the Woods in terms of of working out every last you know bit in terms of how we do this um so that would be my suggestion is let's see a PR go ahead Alexis uh so I guess two things one um I think that the most important thing is to have the current definitive version be available at the same URL always um so that is the way that people know that they're looking at the current version I don't have any objection to to people's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "suggestions necessarily about uh you know is it in git is it versioned is it date stamped is it whatever because I don't think we have a solid proposal um but I would advocate for not trying to put that proposal into this document I think that that is um overloading the document I I take what you said to mean Alexis that it's okay to put in a general um call it uh um I don't know theory of do of revision control into the document maybe some functional description but not specifics about what all the bells and whistles and knobs are going to be correct um I guess what I was saying was I would definitely not mind seeing um uh something in the document that says the definitive version or sorry the definitive current version will always be available at X but I would avoid trying to put in any implementation details of how things are archived because I don't think that we have a clear idea of what we want there and I wouldn't want us to box ourselves in before we've had that conversation so I think it should stay out of this document good Robert yeah I totally agree the mentioning version and control in the document is not the right thing to but there was a question about clarifying you know what it means to be the same mechanism and I think that just points to some word smithing that needs to happen to say that something along the lines of it should be easy to find these things when you have found the primary thing and I'm sorry Brian were you still in the queue or just left over from last time given the speed at which you're finding your mute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "button okay thank you okay are there any other uh last call issues that somebody wants to raise while we're all gathered go ahead Mar well I I think uh Paul mentioned the issue about comments uh so we could discuss that shortly if somebody wants to I I wrote yesterday that as far as I remember we this allow comments in the uh original or final or definitive of whatever XML because it it essentially hides information yeah because the information doesn't show up in uh in the publication versions in the HTML the plain text the PDF and so on that's my understanding and um that would suggest that we continue to do that but uh well we should probably discuss it now okay looks like Paul and John want to both respond so Paul first uh so I don't want to respond because we have already had discussion about this on the mailing list uh after your comment Martin so maybe you haven't caught up but a few people have C have responded um differently so um I don't think this is the best use of our time um but let's keep it going on the mailing list okay okay John well given that comment from Paul I think I agree with Paul but if the argument against"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "comments is information which is hidden in the publication formats that becomes an argument about against any data at all in that RFC XML file that is purely metadata doesn't appear in any of the output formats and I don't think we I don't think we want to go there Martin could you want to respond to that well I I think it's there's a difference between well defined metadata and and just uh comments that could be anything but U yeah of of of course there's a difference but if the again if the argument isn't nothing should appear in the RFC XML file which doesn't appear in the publication formats position which parenthetically I I would agree with but I uh I think I lost that argument years ago then that's not a very strong argument for excluding comments but per Paul's comment I'm more than happy to just back the mailing list if anybody else cares to discuss it sounds like a good place for it okay so uh ass uming John's uh not raising a new hand um I think we've finished that one are there any other issues on the last call document that people want to talk about go ahead Jay hi May again um as we're here so the appendix the advice um in the appendix um the the particular bit um that I um have raised multiple multiple times is the ability to um test whether um regeneration produces"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "the same result um uh for um you know for so for example if there is a new um mechanism to generate an output um the advice says that it should be run and tested to see whether it will produce the same result um for certain formats um I agree that that's possible such as plain text but for PDF I think it is just impossible um the um RPC have done some tests with some PDF diff tools and even something slight G gives a a difference there and with HTML it's um in my view equally complicated as well because we may expect lots of things to change without the content changing um and so uh I'm just not sure why we need that advice in there um it it seems to me just excessive for this document to include that given the problems that exist with it Eric I guess I'm sure not following like is my practice not to do this um like if you had like like if you had a if if you have a tool that generates stuff and you don't check that it generates the right stuff I don't understand like how you the tool works I just observed like web browsers do this like this is like how web browser test it is we have like reference tests so we like verify like like like from the page looks like supposed to work um so like I understand like like how do you if we're not going to do this how do we know the tool are like completely busted there's a tradeoff here between the the level of effort for testing that we have a correct system versus the amount of times it will be used um and so for PDFs if somebody can point to a technology or point to a tool that can accurately determine whether two PDFs the content has changed or not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "through different revisions of the of the generation mechanism then please let's you know do that but everything I've seen is that when somebody changes a PDF Library um to update it and you generate out the same things as you did before you get a slight difference that is going to be detected by a tool but is not actually relevant to the content of that PDF well then we should be checking for a bit wise the out identical in the output like on the like when it renders on the page the actual pixels are the same the actual pixels are the same so that if there's a slight increase in spacing or something like that this is this is not I don't think this is a simple easy problem I don't understand how do you know it's not totally generating like total nonsense like this just a software testing question the point is that it when this this is a routine that is only used under specific C circumstances to regenerate something it is a manual process to regenerate and it is something that will then be when we're actually doing it live I mean okay so when it's been done live it's a manual process and it will be manually checked and manually understood having to have that a fully automatable process that can be done across a large set of files is unnecessary in the context of the way we publish things I don't agree okay okay let's get some other views Alexis and then Elliott uh yeah mainly I guess I'm I'm speaking in favor of Jay's point of view on this um it's in uh it's too high of a bar I think is the point it the point is not that we shouldn't check and that we shouldn't try to validate things it's that the way it's written right now creates a bar that is higher than we think we can actually achieve right now um I don't see any reason why we shouldn't try to achieve a whatever bar but until or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "unless we see an actual tool that will allow us to do this to PDFs I don't think it's reasonable to put it in the document um putting in some sort of and they will check a subset of documents to see if anything obvious breaks sure but like continuous validation or it's it's not an achievable bar that is the problem Elliot and then Jean yeah take Jean first okay yeah I'll wait all right I will be sending some examples of what a PDF diff looks like um between it it's an RFC um generated by two slightly different versions of XML to RFC uh we are trying in this instance we were wanting to fix a nested list mistake and the amount of garbage that the diff shows uh makes it very difficult for anyone to figure out and if you're looking at this diff you go wow this document is greatly changed but it's not so if anybody has diff to tools for PDFs that they know about that are um provide useful diffs please send that information uh this way thanks okay Elliot and then Eric okay um first uh it it was great to hear your voice there Jean um the I think all of this discussion reinforces the point that Brian and I may and so I want to reiterate that it's really important that we hear from the RPC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "about how they will interpret the the work uh what what we're saying in in this RFC and how they will implement it so for instance and and the one that we all have slightly different concerns about that I'm sure how will the RPC interpret section three or section 2.1 right in terms of when going to regenerate will they re will they tend to regenerate always for for for changes to the grammar or for or what under what circumstances do they view you know or will there be a tradeoff how will they manage the trade-off um some thoughts around that I think would be very very helpful maybe let's try to take this in pieces so what's the object like let's take the text first is there any reason the text can't be compare mechanically the txt no text is no problem it's not great y so why can't the is be compared mechanically sorry say that again please okay great now talk I talk the HTML why can't the HTML be very very verified mechanically I don't know enough about that to answer that one it's the PDF that's the particular problem okay well I can live like the PDF we I should all the text go ahead Paul uh so I was thinking a few moments ago oh this is a dumb discussion we're never going to get anywhere I think we just did um as long as the RPC is generating the PDF from the HTML if we actually believe believe that the HTML didn't change if the PDF changes because of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "line breaks or page breaks we don't care um sorry I've been one of the people who've never wanted us to be calling PDF an official format and it sort of shows on the list sorry about that um but I'm with eer if we can focus on tools for the HTML then we can assume that the HTML to PDF conversion most likely went okay and there's certainly some PDF tools that we can use that would flag massive differences and call them out but if if really the tools if really what we're looking for is text and HTML those are doable I think the HTML is actually quite doable um and so at that point I think we can stop and if if the RPC wants to test on the PDF great but that's not a requirement okay I I I think uh the community is pushing back onj we need to come up with a way to say uh the the level of testing uh but this is acknowledging the way we're going that we understand the tool chain and testing the HTML is is going to be a good step towards getting the uh PDF good enough Alexis and then Jean uh I guess I'm wondering if if someone is volunteering to find the HTML tool that says that we can in fact do this effectively uh otherwise it shouldn't be a requirement in the document Jean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so what I was hearing was PDF was just not that important um and PDF is what we do give to lawyers um and um just want to call out that's that's what I'm hearing um so uh the RPC if we have three publication formats or versions um we would want to ensure that they are all correct um if we decide that um PDF is a second tier format that is supported best effort um I would like to hear that Robert so I'm happy that we've had the conversation about CI again and I encourage that we continue to have it but I don't see having it as a requirement that ends up in a document that is the output of this working group as as an unappropriate thing to do you know setting Community expectations that the tool chains do the right thing is great talking about it is great but I I think that it falls outside the purview of of the the stream to tell the production Center to tell the tool chain that you will go do this particular thing Eric well I don't think it falls outside our preview it's like clearly inside 9280 um it's policy um uh so I don't I I mean maybe it's a bad policy maybe we shouldn't make it but I don't think it's like outside of our purview and something caic sense um um I guess I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "don't really understand like um you know the right now is to do like is there like no ver no meaningful like automated verification and so we're proposing I'm proposing to do two kinds of automative verification for text and HTML and Sur that's better than doing none and if that use PDF like without automative verification I don't understand like how that like I mean I guess I don't understand like Jean's point about like um a second class but like like everything was second class before if you had no have any verifications so I I guess I don't really understand um uh um like what the objection of that is um as far as lawyers like like I I think I honestly as Paul indicated earlier I think we're like way over indexing what we give to lawyers like we're not like we work for the lawyers our job is to handle them what they ask for um not to like spend a lot of time agonizing about exactly they need Elliott go ahead um so for forgive me I I'm sitting here typing minutes and so I haven't had a chance to look at this exact text it's not fresh in my head but I'd like to understand the ramifications of the text in terms of what it means for changing existing rfc's is it that we have to do um CI in order to make changes to the the documents where uh can this just a point of informational question what's the what does this other let me let me put it in another way does this otherwise defeat the the policy changes that we um incorporating in this document can I answer that for you um so what it says in the document is that the ability to render to replace a publication version um to quote creates a risk the rendered documents change in unexpected ways when they are regenerated this risk of unintentional change can be managed by implementing validation processes that are the ones that are then specified that we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "talking about so that's why it's there um I am surprised like others that we should get into that level of detail even if it's only advice in order for for that so I'm hearing uh a plea for higher level uh go ahead Paul sorry I clicked a little bit too soon I thought Russ you were about to say we're close to the top of the hour you didn't see anyone else in the queue are we done um uh if that is not what I was saying but we were I was about to move to that okay uh sorry well so let's assume that that I didn't click quite as quickly and you just moved to that um wearing my ath co-author hat so a bunch of people brought up stuff today some of which are was already on the list in some threads some of which is new uh please open new threat if if what was said today is important to you please open new threads it's okay if the new thread is on a same top IC as an old one but given what has happened today there's there's been a lot of discussion I was not taking notes I don't think that um the authors doing something based on what was said verbally during a working group much less an interim meeting is appropriate please open threads let's have the threads come to completion any cont heavily contested threads the chairs can you know call consensus on um please do that and ask threads get closed as in yep we all agree on this um Heather and I can put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "in the document but please don't continue old threads at this point especially because a lot of the old threads actually just were you know something about with with the uh document name in the header ple please please have subject lines that um will alert somebody if they want to be following in or not thanks well now observe we have less than two minutes so um is there any other business someone wants to Spotlight for a topic on the uh on the mail list if so we can do that in a minute and then uh wrap up go ahead Elliot uh thanks Russ um I really actually want to channel muria for a moment um she put something out to the rsab as a as I think an agenda item for the next meeting um but also probably for dialogue um in the RAB and I think this is probably worth taking input from this group which is as this document is approved by this you know as this document gets to group consensus the RAB has to figure out how to um consult the community about that and um muria asked for input on that point I think it's probably good for us to um to give that some thought within this group and maybe feed that into the RAB so that um you know our Sab of which I include myself is better informed in terms of how people feel thank you could you uh start a thread on the mail list so you can get that feedback you bet all right all right since we're now at the out of time I want to thank everybody I think we had a good dialogue I think we made progress and I think that uh we're get an 05 very soon and continue the last call discussion uh with a heads up when we get to stable all right thank you all and thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "you very much Elliot for taking notes thank you you're welcome"
  }
]
