[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "there\u0027s one he has good morning everyone there\u0027s this thing on yeah it\u0027s on yeah it\u0027s the ITF we gotta you know be very be very serious about the microphones um hi I\u0027m Brian this is Tommy we are the co-chairs two of the three co-chairs of IPP M this is IPP em I see many familiar faces here you\u0027re all in the right place if you\u0027re not here for AI ppm then you\u0027re in a wrong place Greg actually you should probably come over on this side because it\u0027s like a bad side for people who are gonna be up at the Micah brunch we know so we have a exceptionally full schedule today so I would basically go ahead and jump right into it this well it\u0027s been a while since we have like a first thing Monday morning meeting so we should actually actually show the note well because some people this might be the first time you see it this is an IETF meeting anything you say in this meeting is an IETF contribution we have policies about conduct in the IETF we have policies about the disclosure of IPR um please make sure that you have read especially BCP 78 and BCP 79 before contributing anything to the IETF as they outline your responsibilities respect to IPR in the IETF like I said full schedule we\u0027re actually gonna do from the chair here on some discussion about the status of things that are currently in last call we the exception of the metric and initial registry so we can have a little longer discussion about that to make sure we wrap that last call up the other last calls that we\u0027re in I think are pretty straightforward we have essentially three suctions of working group work we have the metric registry discussion because we\u0027d like to get that finished and ready to send up to a Shepherd after this meeting the next one is the IOM discussion we\u0027d like to basically take some action items that are slipped since the last time this is on our our side the chair side that we need to to go through and we need to figure out you know what\u0027s the right home for these things where you know where we\u0027re gonna move this work forward and how we get you know some some real progress on this before the montreal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "cycle and then we have in 20 minutes at the at the end of that section on alternate marking and related work I strongly suspect that we have under scheduled time for these discussions we are going to focus on the metric registry IOM and alternate marking we will make sure that we have sufficient time for all three of those topics during this slot if that means that we have to push the next screen off then so be it we have four additional presentations that were sent in that we may have time to get to at the end of this these are not lightning talks were actually we\u0027re talking about revising the lightning talk policy so that we can you know turn IP pm into a slightly better a venue for I think we have a lot of expertise in this room and we have a lot of energy and interest in doing different kinds of work that is related to these things and we\u0027d like this to be a less of a forum for you know hey look at my draft and please talk about on the list and more a way to get people who are trying to do new work in this space to be able to ask questions and for us to be able to ask questions at them so we\u0027re experimenting a little bit with the format and we\u0027ll see how that works in Montreal for today hopefully we can get to these four there were like four or five other presentations that came in too late to even get on this list but if we don\u0027t get to these I apologize to the people here congratulations 84-68 has been published since the last time I think it was in it was basically in like all 48 the last time yay progress one more thing off our list int fi ppm Timur yang is still in miss ref do is there anything that we need to pay attention to on that right it\u0027s just the registry okay cool good okay check we have the last call on graphite EFI ppm initial and metric registry which was extended to end with the discussion today will follow up anything that happens there on the list obviously but we\u0027re going to finish that out thank you to everyone who commented after if the end of the first last call also I realize we do need minute takers to go in two minutes and also Jeb prescribed can we get quickly some volunteers for that huge ever can we get a minute taker to do stuff in the the etherpad anybody we\u0027ve had some great minutes before will definitely need some for discussion thank you it\u0027s right there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "[Music] yeah and the other thing that I\u0027ll note all because we are short on time I\u0027m gonna run a timer on my phone for the various things that I have a shorter time constraint and so if you hear an alarm going off that\u0027s what that is so looking at graph ietf i ppm stamp we had a lot of support and no substantive lack of support for that on the list so thank you for everybody who has read that um the last call on that is ending in five seconds four three two one okay we\u0027re done um this document needs a shepherd so see how you can\u0027t do it cuz you\u0027re an author aren\u0027t you one stamp yes okay right yeah okay yeah so we can\u0027t make you do this other one good how can you this one that\u0027d be great thanks I will go ahead and assign you and that takes us then to some brief update on our yeah um your gmail address is the current active one right okay I\u0027ll just do that okay good morning everybody I\u0027m al Morten and I\u0027m one of the many authors on the advanced unidirectional route assessment yeah it\u0027s gotta be turned on yes yes okay good thank you I\u0027m gonna disengage here that way it can move around okay good deal so in fact I just noticed that there\u0027s another draft elsewhere in the ITF using the same name or we\u0027re first guys come on so so we\u0027re off next slide oh it\u0027s showing there okay good good so uh this is just a reminder where we\u0027re basically measuring and defining how we describe Route ensembles it\u0027s a whole list of routes here and you can see how that would be matching up with the diagram where you\u0027ve got one one place of divergence there one one multipath three one and three - next slide so the most important part about this list of things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "is the hops it\u0027s it is an ordered list we sorted that some terminology out and there\u0027s a reminder what it looks like and there\u0027s a so hij was a host but we can learn much more about that it has to have an identity that\u0027s always been a part of this either an IP address or a DNS resolve name but we can also add things like the arrival interface departure interface timestamps and round-trip delay measurements associated with that host and I\u0027ve got some green stuff there that\u0027s what we\u0027ve associated with on resolving some comments we\u0027ve associated those two interfaces with RFC 58-37 so we\u0027ve got more backup now basically for the kind of information that we\u0027re putting in next slide so here\u0027s the lingering to do and done we had a whole bunch of reviewers where are you where\u0027s Aliyah where is yari who was volunteered not actually a volunteer will resolve that on the next slide but we did all these other things we\u0027ve got packet fields can ID a flow that\u0027s an important one and that\u0027s a now reference to 64 38 I just talked about the interface names so we\u0027ll use that and these are all Carlos Carlos Pena taro co-author comments before he was an author we\u0027ve added some cautions for the methods we have in the draft we can easily do that for some others and Frank we had a comment from you about the IOM loopback bit and I believe that we\u0027ve covered that now so next slide the next steps it doesn\u0027t make sense to ping to death our volunteer reviewers so we need some more volunteer reviewers and I know there\u0027s people interested in this topic everybody measures traceroute everybody measures it with Parrish traceroute every a lot of people use the MDA algorithm when they measure traceroute so where we\u0027re trying to go a few steps beyond that that methodology but that was kind of our starting place and so now everybody in the room can raise their hand and volunteers or reviewer great what oh that\u0027s a foot footer right yes I remembered you should be a good thing should be a good thing thank you foot anybody else Frank Frank thank you Frank and a lot of people are hiding behind the column here that\u0027s okay they used to be a round column so okay we didn\u0027t get too many volunteers but we\u0027ve got got a few so please review and read the draft and in particular sections five and six round trip delay and analysis that would be good if we got some more delay review of that but everything is up up for topics please Brian oh you\u0027ll do the dodo oh yes so take guess yes that\u0027s right but actually that was the TCP stuff right yeah yeah it\u0027s too late now you missed that one all right so I think that does a ton and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:18",
    "text": "while we\u0027re switching slide decks here I wanted to make mention that the groupers now received two liaisons on the top of capacity measurement and there\u0027s going to be a side meeting about that during this week please come and see me after this session if you would like to join that few people have already said so by email so please please come see me so now we\u0027re talking about there is there a room or their coordinates for that yet no we\u0027re gonna sort it out and we\u0027ll put it on the list got it thank you ah okay it\u0027ll be in the next couple of days let me say that and and you know out of the way of most sessions I would guess so this is the performance metric registry we have initial contents that\u0027s the draft you\u0027re looking at there and then next slide is the registry the the design of the registry itself without contents so again I\u0027m Mel Morton we\u0027ve gone through 18 versions of this it covers over all covers active metrics passive metrics and hybrid metrics next slide we\u0027ve made everything the possibility of uniqueness is preserved here in in this metric registry so we\u0027ve got you know basically tons of information in a series of columns which I\u0027ll show you on the next slide but we had originally talked about early different kinds of identifiers zwi needed and that\u0027s what we\u0027re gonna concentrate our final discussions on today next slide so we have this concept up at the top of categories in blue and then the off to the off to the right we have the various columns so the the summary column that\u0027s it that\u0027s what\u0027s actually going to appear in the I Anna web pages version of the registry so just the ID the name the Uniform Resource identifier z\u0027 description references change control and version number of the registry that the entry conforms to and that\u0027s pretty much all you\u0027re gonna see on the web unless you click through and we\u0027ll talk through we\u0027ll talk about that in just a moment the rest of the categories are the metric definition method of measurement the output formats additional information than any comments that come in as we\u0027re kind of revising these metric things so next slide so as I said we had a simpler plan for delay for display of these registry entries so I just a reminder what the some looks like this is what you know it\u0027s a little bit jammed together but this is what the webpage and I Anna\u0027s website would look like it would have the ID number which is you know one two three at the beginning and then the very long name which we worked on and finalize the naming format in Buenos Aires and then we have the URIs which currently include aur n the uniform research name and a URL to a much longer text HTML eyes text file which contains all the detail that\u0027s necessary to specify a unique metric you can see descriptions there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "for things like round-trip delay which is an active metric which is UDP which is 95th percentile of the units of the measurement there and so forth and you know we and we\u0027ve got a lot of related metrics they basically use almost all the same references and so we\u0027ve a little bit consolidated on the detailed information when we did that so each major section in the initial contents draft sometimes specifies as many as four metrics like for example if there\u0027s if there\u0027s delay and lost there those are very closely related metrics in the way we\u0027ve defined active metrics in IP PM here so we\u0027ve tried to save some space so that\u0027s the simple version a little with a little more information off to the right there that\u0027s what you would see and you\u0027ll be able to click through to an HTML eyes text file the HTML is all about making section numbers and RFC numbers alive so you can click right through to the RFC that is being referenced there and let\u0027s go Miria yeah I\u0027m wondering why the RFC name is in the in the name because I am saying that this gives like it gives a implicit reference but when you update the iris you have seen um we have to change the name right that\u0027s that\u0027s right so it would be a new metric then it would be it would be a different different row in the metric registry and a different and a different entry so really make sense if I just like update the RFC to have Claire vacation whatever it is a clarification question basically you\u0027re saying if you update the RFC and change its number but you don\u0027t touch that particular metric yeah is that what\u0027s concerning you yes okay oh you understand the question I I think I understand it better now the question is wouldn\u0027t it be yet another RFC number that that results from that update may have to duplicate metrics like if the RACI doesn\u0027t touch one of the metrics it\u0027s a you may not change the metrics name but then it points to the wrong aisle seat or you update the metrics name and then you have a duplicate so I think I mean I think the answer that we wrote about in the in the draft would mean that or would result in us retiring let for example metric one it would be marked obsolete and we\u0027d have another ID number with a new name does that make sense because on somebody uses metric one and you obsolete it even so it\u0027s the same metric and it\u0027s so well it right well if we changed it because we need to fix something is it really still valid a bit I mean these are good points let\u0027s see what the draft says about this and and and and we\u0027ll we\u0027ll make this we\u0027ll make this a point to resolve Miria all right just just one coming to that like one if if we keep with that scheme then it essentially "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "means that it is good that whenever we\u0027re defining new metrics that they are essentially isolated to their own RFC\u0027s such that any change to the RFC by definition means a change to that metric yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s right and in fact I mean this first round of metrics that we\u0027re looking at there are any thanks are there they\u0027re all going to be defined in the initial contents RFC so they\u0027ll basically all have the same number at the start there might be new numbers and new metric names that result from that if we change them so let\u0027s let\u0027s work that let\u0027s work that detail out see how see what we can clarify about that all right so so this results in a you saw those names and they\u0027re kind of a complicated format but it\u0027s a good format in that it\u0027s it\u0027s fairly exact what we decided to do was to have a fairly well specified set of sub elements for the names that you can use and each of these elements is defined here for example so our tea delay is round-trip delay that seems pretty simple one-way delay same thing so there\u0027s going to be a sub registry for each one of these and people can add to these over time this is exfoli extensible but the main point is that we don\u0027t want someone saying like what you spelling out one way delay and also meaning the same thing as Oh W delay that\u0027s the that\u0027s the main point here so it\u0027s a it\u0027s just a matter of nailing down specific names for the kinds of metrics we\u0027ve used quite frequently next slide alright so so here\u0027s the content updates so we\u0027re closing the working group last call opens we\u0027ve got the we had a good set of comments from height Oregon\u0027s Ellie from the Nick in Brazil and we clarified the description of roles there we\u0027ve got a typically in measurement we\u0027ve got an active measurement in particular we\u0027ve got a source of the active stream and we\u0027ve got a destination that all those active packets have been sent to and you need to nail down which role you\u0027re playing when you\u0027re specifying a metric for measurement and your measurement device is going to conform with this so we we\u0027ve clarified that and we also made some references to the L map framework and the L map yang model which height or was was actually using down in Brazil so that helped him out a lot we got another I Anna review from Michelle cotton Michelle are you here no no okay how about Tom Pech and Dale are whirly okay well we got a good review from Michelle we resolved all those comments I believe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "we\u0027ve resolved every comment except the the kind of combination Tom and Dale won which was about considerations for the Uniform Resource name that we thought we would add here so let\u0027s see oh yes and one of the other comments was that I Anna uses a group name now so we\u0027ve adopted that concept and it\u0027s actually in our mock-up so our next slide so this is it\u0027s gonna be a little hard to read here but like I said we\u0027ve we\u0027ve now got a name for a group of registries it\u0027s the performance metrics group and if you go to Ayana registries this is the kind of thing you see the dates the registration procedures the experts and and and so forth who are involved and then as you as you scan down the page you\u0027ll see a click click through to the performance metrics registry and then the performance metric name elements and we\u0027ve both we\u0027ve seen both of those in the in the previous slides so that\u0027s how this thing would typically be constructed now next slide so here\u0027s the question for today we\u0027ve got these three things we\u0027ve got names of the metrics that we worked out in great detail with the Buenos Aires format we\u0027ve also got a 16-bit integer which is the identifier and we\u0027ve got this thing that we thought we were going to define called the art you are in the uniform resource name it was going to be under the ITF level it was going to define a new level of metrics it was going to define a new level under that for performance and we would simply be a prepending this you are in to the name and that would make the complete name so the real question is do we need that now and all the also the URI contains a URL to the file which is the HTML HTML eyes dredge estreet entry if you go look at the draft if you look at the major sections those are the kinds of information those major sections are what\u0027s going to appear when you click on this URL it\u0027s going to bring up all the detail why are we doing that because it would make the registry completely unusable if every column was way off to the right and if everybody who wanted to write a new metric had to start from some some some big column column or thing on the IANA page it\u0027s a lot easier for people to just grab this text file modify it to their heart\u0027s content write another internet draft that then becomes an RFC that then would be introduced in the registry or or an internet draft that could go under expert review that\u0027s that\u0027s the way that that metrics from other standards bodies can get listed here if it becomes a standard someplace else or if another standards body wants a registered metric then the group of registry experts would review that so the question for the group is do we need all three of these things and and I\u0027m happy to put in that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "I think the answer is no once we came around with the with a very well-defined naming format and obviously we have the the integers for the identifiers I mean frankly if I if I\u0027m going to use this these these two information pieces of information I will use the numeric identifier in a protocol and I\u0027ll use the name format in documentation or you know an actual report of measurements using the registered metrics and I don\u0027t need the u RN so comments on that I as an individual this is an epic that I should probably take offline is there so 16-bit integers why 16 bits why not just having an unbounded integer type I mean is there is there like a wire format but you need to stuff this into well we we imagined that was true for L map that we win it yes okay we adhere to this realm out but yeah yeah but that\u0027s is that still the case with all Bob didn\u0027t they yang fi things in such a way that it\u0027s not stuck to 16 bits anymore that\u0027s a good question yeah look look into it but yeah it\u0027s just sort of like jump up at me is I hope we don\u0027t run out of that space but when you go to I Ana and say create me a 16-bit space they they take that as an implicit signal to how picky they should be or how picky the expert should be right right I don\u0027t know that that\u0027s a signal that we need okay okay so if does it does it make you a cold comment go away if we can make it 32 bits an unbounded integer because we do have a constraint on okay no we do have a constraint on metrics getting into the registry they need to be in widespread use yeah and the we\u0027ve kind of thought 16 was enough for that all right all right good enough okay so I think that\u0027s we\u0027re getting pretty close to the end here so any other comments on the getting rid of you our ends yes please Brian Trammell as an individual yes please okay let\u0027s do that and that means that we don\u0027t have to add a bunch of policy stuff now exactly about the u RN yeah and I\u0027m just saying this also has the document Shepard for this one yeah it really organs I think it\u0027s fairly simple to do at this point and yep and like I said it doesn\u0027t add a lot of value now that we\u0027ve got those I think it was a useful it was a useful way to frame the question yeah and we answered the question though yeah yeah good okay so any other issues since we\u0027re closing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:23",
    "text": "the last call today today is the last called a closure day when we\u0027re going to close the last call yeah I can click the buttons now five four three two Happy New Year all right good thanks everybody and we got back some time we can use for Iowa up that\u0027s what I was hoping of what thank you all right so I think we are on time yeah as we are switching over Frank if you come up the blue sheets have been sent out we\u0027ve had some people come in well the blue sheets now and can we just do another round if you have not signed them please make sure you do make sure you have your time we\u0027re ready to go a little bit more time and we\u0027ll probably but we only have we only have something like 15 drafts right yet people will go at a faster might speak to okay so you one minute thing ready some framing things so so Tony asked me to go and kind of host this particular session we try to go and pull in everybody that has something on Io em so that at least we get the whole thing discussed later on categorized grouped and then have a conversation on how we want to go and take the individual categories forward and then eventually also in the video drafts even more so there\u0027s a sweetie sensitive than so next slide so from an overall agenda perspective this is how we\u0027re thinking of spending the 40 minutes we have one working group draft which we typically refer to as the data drafts or the data formats and there\u0027s been a bunch of discussions and updates on that particular draft we\u0027ve got to go and go through these individual updates and then we\u0027re going into the second section that should get us to a understanding on how we want to go and take all the individual drafts that we have on I um related topics forward and we categorize these individual drafts in - well for five main categories the biggest category a category is carrying the data fields in various protocols which is what we call encapsulations we\u0027re gonna go through this entire raft and then see and decide on whether we agree on the categories and what to do with these individual categories taking them forward in certain cases it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:23",
    "text": "relatively easy if you think of you need a yang model for IOM where should we go and anchor that most likely here but the ancap draft thing is a less obvious discussion so let\u0027s have that after we understand what encap drafts exist and maybe a very very quick verification round but I don\u0027t think that we have time for individual discussions which is why next slide we showed you all a bunch of site meetings to go and clean up individual documents have site discussions on all these various documents the first one is happening today the second one is happening on Wednesday where we still have to go and figure out which room we\u0027re gonna go use because well there should be empty rooms but we don\u0027t know which one to use yet and the third one is tomorrow and tomorrow we don\u0027t really want to go and focus on editing but we want to go and focus on how people use or intend to use individual IOM data fields and come up with additional deployment considerations we started having some of these discussions especially around v6 but we want to go and have these discussions in a broader way given that we have a large set of encapsulation drafts for now so we Neah understand or better understand how people want to go and deploy those things for other domains and that leads me a thing to go and jump in into the data fields updates and I believe Shweta is gonna go and take us through the first set of updates if you click on the next slide I think the main clarifications fall into three main groups one is a load of editorial cleanup and so thanks for especially special thanks to the the people at the hackathon last time because they kind of went into degree things and figure out a bunch of editorial myths and then there is two major updates one is immediate export and one is active and well shred that give us an update on I think two of these two birds all these were done as part of the addressing the review comments okay better now so okay so the there are corresponding issues to all the github the comments that were received on mailers from a bunch of people so we have given links to the github issues and comments and how they were addressed there Joseph very briefly here so namespace was introduced after the work group after the draft was that up adopted in the work group so there was additional clarification required on what feels in the i1 data really makes use of the the namespace context initially we referred to some of the fields which would be interpreted like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:23",
    "text": "the timestamp the unit for the timestamp would be based on what names me names face the the timestamp fields have been added in so we have given a additional idea examples there in 0-5 version of the draft the next clarification was what does the transit node update other than its own node data so we clarified that it could possibly update the checksum based on the encapsulation and yeah it definitely updates the remaining length in a pre allocated trace option the next set of changes were related to the flags field in the ion Trace header so we introduced two new flags which we will discuss in the next two slides the loop back bit which was essentially to when you see there is a failure you want the packet to go back in the reverse direction to see till where the packet reach so this there was this loop back but it was unclear on how the loop back which is really a clone packet of the original packet will be dealt with and dropped at the at the boundary so there is a a bit of text clarification on that on the new back then there was the comments on the must ensured so we those are updated according to the two one 109 then a bunch of changes to the trace type bits which was increased to 24 bits from 16 bits but there was redundant 16 bit in examples as well as in the description so those were updated the next next part is how the the no data is stacked so we go the no data is populated in a stack manner instead of Q so that\u0027s uniform across reallocated and incremental so that\u0027s again a text clarification so there was a comment on the buffer occupancy data field which which referred to the memory pools in the in the interfaces which has been clarified again this could be percentage or number of memory memory buffers remaining again that would be dependent on the namespace so this goes back to the point 1 in the edits so we had a reference to tube for referring to the e2e how it applies to a group of packets so that has been updated to the packet group instead of tube just so that we don\u0027t have to refer to another terminology which the tube was undefined so we have modified it to packet so that\u0027s that\u0027s the bunch of editorial changes that have happened greg mercy City I have a question so the scope of this draft is on data types so the whole loopback bit that controls the behavior of RM is a data type so that the ion header for each of these options is also part of the data fields and without that it\u0027s not really possible to have a uniform representation of the I own data in different protocols while this doesn\u0027t define the protocols the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:23",
    "text": "the header for the trace e to e by by the nature of definition of the options itself that that is integral to the part of the data raft it\u0027s not really just the data fields it\u0027s data fields spreads plus context that\u0027s that\u0027s exactly so basically the again I iterate that the scope of the draft as defined and being adopted by the group is data fields not the behavior of the protocol this doesn\u0027t define the protocol behavior oh it does okay I disagree sorry we can I jump in on this Frank or milestone November 2018 not my fault to submit a standard track graph on India and IO am based measurement methodologies to the iesg so that\u0027s what\u0027s in the Charter right so I don\u0027t necessarily want to get into a discussion about the wording of the milestone because we don\u0027t have that much time I think that the the idea is is that the this document was brought in on to IP p.m. the data model that is here is sort of the minimum viable non encapsulated thing that you can use to support these measurement methodologies and I\u0027m not making I\u0027m not making a technical decision is the chair here but it seems to me that what I\u0027m hearing from the editorial team is that you can\u0027t actually just pull this out without any you can\u0027t pull the data model out without any influence on the control loop of what gets put into this header and still have it work right so yes but yeah can you rephrase your question in a way that doesn\u0027t review the milestones no I\u0027m saying that there is a disconnect between what stated in the scope of the document and how the document was adopted by the working group and what being put in the document what else we can take this discussion in one of the side meetings we are having okay what\u0027s the direct the coordinates thoughts I mean II have already there body on the west current yeah this is so they\u0027re two new flags define one is the active that is the immediate export immediate expose Barack is going to talk about active flag is so only are made the we had a reference to there was an edit to the draft which talked about how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:23",
    "text": "it applies not just to the passive or hybrid om but also to active so you could create probes and include IOM in the probes so that you could collect the the IOM related data only in the probes that has that have been initiated but there is no way to figure out whether the data packet is real or it\u0027s a it\u0027s a probe request so that at the IOM boundary said that that decapsulation node in the i1 domain that packet can get dropped or treated differently from the actual data packet which needs to be forwarded after the IOM data has been extracted from it so this flag essentially is marked when it\u0027s a pro packet or an active om related packet so that it can get treated properly in the d capsule attic node okay good mercy city again so we had a discussion mailing list and these particular enhancements that being added again outside of the scope of the document and I believe that Frank understood and said yes that probably means that that could be should be in a separate document so but you put it in this document nevertheless I I do not answer that so Frank poppers given that that was addressed to me I think that\u0027s not true what I said is we are defining flags and data fields in this document that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing we\u0027re not defining the behavior the control plane and whatever happens around that in this particular document but we need a place we\u0027re to define the flag and that\u0027s the day to draft so we can and that\u0027s also why we have the de session tomorrow how people want to go and deploy the thing how they\u0027re using it we will have a raft of probably additional documents that talk about how you use certain things but we need an anchor point where we define the flag and that\u0027s also what I said on the email on the mailing list I\u0027ll hold the email maybe it was my misinterpretation of your words but I don\u0027t think that again this data fields are data that\u0027s being collected this is control information that controls the behavior of the protocol and that\u0027s I believe is not in the scope of the document I said I\u0027m Brian trauma as an individual so I I do want to raise a little bit of a flag here huh that this particular so I don\u0027t I don\u0027t really have an opinion on the you know the control versus data thing great like you obviously if you\u0027re doing anything in band you need some way to have some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:25",
    "text": "in band control information for exactly what gets done the things I do think that there are there are probably dragons here in that when you take a system that\u0027s designed such that you\u0027re never touching the forwarding plane and you\u0027re allowing the forwarding plane to do things to the packets like so the one of the points the octave flag is to say okay well you can stick in a different cue if you get in trouble for example right you are now modifying the operation of the system that you\u0027re measuring which means that you\u0027re doing an entire different sort of you know theoretical basis for how you how you manage these things I\u0027m not saying don\u0027t do it I\u0027m just saying that this needs to be there needs to be like a little sort of like red and black you know button thing here it\u0027s like if you use these active um if you use this encapsulation for active measurement that you are mixing with passive measurement you need to be very careful about the design of the of the measurement unless it is a reason not to do it it\u0027s a reason to put a big flashing light on it and say be careful here because I think this starts to be the boundary between things that were pretty sure we know how to do and the problem is we just need a common way to do it and here there be research as a ppm so we\u0027ve been doing research right so it\u0027s like that\u0027s it\u0027s not bad it\u0027s just that this is the place where it\u0027s essentially what you\u0027re saying is having this flag for restricting it just for the decaf solution is not sufficient we probably need to have additional disclaimers warnings to do not turn this into something it goes into a separate document I really don\u0027t care about that argument like as yeah I guess as a chair I\u0027m supposed to but like his individual you know if the stuff is there fine if I can read it if it\u0027s usable that\u0027s great but this is I\u0027d like to call this out as you know we\u0027re crossing a threshold here and we need to be we need to be mindful that you live in also individual comment I can just very much agree and it goes even one step further because if you\u0027re going into active measurements and you actually dublicate impecca\u0027s integrating data then you have to consider congestion and all you can all these kind of things so it\u0027s a completely different part of considerations and I would really recommend you to rather design a completely different protocol for it and not try to squeeze it in here I would be very careful about it so I think we are over exaggerating what this is you can do it without the active flag at the expense of another ICL that filters out that other traffic right so this thing was introduced to help the implementation and make it simpler you can do active you can do anything with IOM because all we carry is metadata in packets and whether these packets are active measurements or a customer traffic our UN doesn\u0027t know this is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:26",
    "text": "help to an implementer in case you do an active measurement with I am so as I said we can design around that it just makes the the implementation or awkward which is why that flag was introduced maybe at this point this to the site me because we were talking about this but again I\u0027m I\u0027m not reacting to the flag because I think the flag is a problem I\u0027m reacting to the flag because it it it brought this flexibility to my attention and even with that flexibility you know comes responsibilities you know not to not the internet so so it\u0027s it seems like it\u0027s going beyond measurement so flags like Lewbert it\u0027s clear why for example obvious use case but it\u0027s now awesome vector for and very easy to dos attack right now it\u0027s a great way to amplify it does a talk and it\u0027s very hard to defend because it\u0027s actually even designed in the protocol as to be if not even a limited the main flag it\u0027s to be sent to be set by the actual center so that\u0027s supposed to looks like it\u0027s supposed to cross the whole internet end-to-end now this doesn\u0027t really mean that right even within the domain if you don\u0027t really want to add I want to all the data packets but you want to do some troubleshooting and craft packets and send do some active OEM and you\u0027d want to come get the complete trace and not not kind of active measurements you could use IOM within the ICMP being for example right and get the entire trace and half delays before occupation attack right so you could always send one a CMP packet and get one back or gets another one sent to somebody else but this way you can send one packet and get thirty devices and route send the copy of the packet to somebody else discussion right now because I just realized that the note taker is up here having an interesting discussion with people and I can\u0027t connect to either pad and anyone in the room connect to either bad okay yes please merging them together I really don\u0027t want that but but but who\u0027s the sre on call for etherpad okay so I do understand that this is a data mode and you can do whatever you want with it right but it\u0027s it\u0027s designed with a certain scope in mind and disco with the I the Instituto is kind of you know what we focus on and however I think what you actually want is not talking about active measurements "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:26",
    "text": "yeah it\u0027s talking about having a flag that tells you please drop this packet so it maybe that\u0027s a name you should give the flag just to be future proof but I\u0027m still not sure if it\u0027s the right approach and on the point of easy making implementation more easy just because it\u0027s more easy to implement doesn\u0027t mean it\u0027s the right design choice right sometimes it\u0027s it it has a benefit about making people think about what they actually do then trying to just get the easiest way out no actually without just classification it\u0027s hard to figure out which is a control plane which is a data packet versus a pro packet which needs to be dropped so you need something like this but if you want know if you using completely different a completely different protocol you can design this other protocol in a way that is easy to distinguish right it\u0027s more design work but it can the implementation can still be make easy ok again to as response to Igor and this bit doesn\u0027t yeah sorry this bit doesn\u0027t tell you to duplicate any packets just telling you that you need to drop it instead of d-cups right right so it doesn\u0027t mean that you should further on add data to avert a plane so just verification and these people so it doesn\u0027t it doesn\u0027t advise anybody to WK pickets or whatever but it has this example in the text right now and no matter if you call it active or drop or whatever if you drop a packet there\u0027s an assumption that it\u0027s not needed anymore and maybe it\u0027s created somewhere and it\u0027s if you create your own packets you have to put a big warning in there this is a this has implications on congestion control and you have to carefully think about it right that\u0027s like minimum you have to do sure so for immediate export flag so we added another flag so currently up until this flag all the data collection used to be embedded in the packet itself and the idea here is to enable also for our notes to export the data immediately instead of embedding it into the packet the motivations are related to security concerns that raised in some environments space limitations within the headers implementation simplicity so it helps implementers to collect data from data plane and also the potential loss of telemetry data if a packet that someone embed telemetry into will get you up on its way it may get coupled with end to end in order to add more context to the data that may get export "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:27",
    "text": "towards controller it\u0027s not a must but it\u0027s kind of an option that we\u0027re going to discuss further on this is a house on from Holley on I think this a implantation of sir postcard based M tree which we have a cover another draft but unfortunately I don\u0027t think this works because it\u0027s only said a single bit doesn\u0027t allow the collector to correlate all the postcards from different notes so you mentioned you can combine this visit e to e mode but we have discussed in the email instance that that just makes that make a mess about the semantics because e to e means just to do this but from suppose ends no not supposed to be processed art earrings are on the unfolding past so the better way to do that is actually just support another mode in everywhere in that mode you can just it\u0027s just suppose every node should explore it\u0027s a postcard Ibiza enough information to allow the collector to correlate all the postcards yes so we have this discussion on the mailing list I believe and we decided to keep this discussion on the side so let\u0027s further discuss it yeah since we\u0027ve referenced at a bunch of times it is in a long email list thread but could you at the mic state the time location for this I mean just for people in the room Frank if you go back yes 6:00 6:30 today 6:30 tomorrow 1:30 on Wednesday ok one more question on the B media decks board and well it potentially opens a rat hole but you can either export at every single node or you can have nodes decide on whether they want to go and export and carry on and I think you had a preference to do a must statement you have to go and export everything as opposed to a node decides on well I I filled up to a certain level so I had say room for six Hobbes and from now onwards I don\u0027t have room anymore so I can go and rather than do nothing I can go an export should we go and consider that as an option yep okay buying travel as an individual I heard the word rat host I decided to get in the microwave so I I like I\u0027m a big fan of this feature I think this is really useful I think as with the active flag this kind of points to a set of modes where you have to be very careful it\u0027s very easy to create a foot gun with us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:27",
    "text": "so there needs to be a really big anti foot gun section I mean I guess you can call security considerations but it\u0027s really about um how to ensure that there\u0027s a safety envelope for misconfigurations because it\u0027s very easy just to blasts you\u0027re you\u0027re monitoring collection system off the metal and then you know there\u0027s a problem right because I went down but it\u0027s hard to diagnose um I am I\u0027m not sure exactly what shape that safety envelope should take it might require additional information in this header um just just as input so I think we have roughly 15 individual drafts that we spend 14 minutes on and so if people could go and line up at the mic so could you just maybe go and really quickly show the agenda so that you know when you\u0027re up and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s eight-point print so it really helps first yeah bronze I think it\u0027s not here and I\u0027m gonna go if somebody\u0027s not here what I\u0027m gonna go do is to a maybe 20 second I read the abstract so that everybody is aware or I might even in short cut the abstract and questions at the end please yeah so I think this 11 minutes so first on is let\u0027s go do that this is not even an individual draft just for reference and shì encapsulation is adopted by SFC so that\u0027s progressing there for people who kind of miss it here it\u0027s their next one so Brian Weiss has been shepherding this wick for a while don\u0027t believe that he\u0027s in the room is he here he\u0027s not so he came up with a encapsulation that works for protocols that use either type as next header so things like it works for GRE it works for genève and there\u0027s been a discussion and I believe he\u0027s updated the draft per the working group discussion last time on how to go and allocate that particular Kok point next IOM over v6 I think Shweta so we have map although I am options that are defining the data draft - Habba hop and destination options in v6 there are the trace options and proof of transit that needs to be updated by multiple nodes in the hops multiple hops are mapped to haba haba options while the e to e which is a ion domain boundary option is mapped to a destination option next so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:28",
    "text": "we have a draft to explain what how it should not break 8,200 and this is mostly to have all the considerations for deploying it in v6 and how the options should not break any of the v6 most stuff like inserting data in flight which is not allowed by 8200 how we can get around that and the solutions possible solutions for it are listed in this draft so there is a new ref which is basically just cosmetic on genève and it talks about another approach if you\u0027re not using either type to go and endcap the whole thing into genève and that\u0027s progressing as well next one so we have something for v4 options now yes so we suggest the new draft for encapsulating IOM in before the idea is not new as some of you may I\u0027m at ease so RFC 791 already suggests to embed some television data into the ipv4 options so we simply follow this idea and essentially suggest to expand the ability to insert more types of Iowan data into the ipv4 options the note is that there is some you know limited space in there before options so we need to be aware of these limitations it may still support some simple use cases in addition if immediate export is being used so it\u0027s kind of resolve these problems we discuss in this draft Sam you know considerations regarding to the ipv4 out of time there is another one on integrated tactic optical in situ OAM do we have anybody here that would represent that draft no I believe it is about using I um at the optical layer and I believe it\u0027s even informational so anybody wants to go and add another sentence nope okay next one then we go into the wild wild west of I um and segment routing so there is one draft and we have another similar one later on that talks about segment routing and MPLS yeah so it says that adoption in this working group but we know that expertise for IOM is here so we had submitted draft to spring but if you want to do the work in IP p.m. we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:28",
    "text": "also okay to do the work here and keep the spring working group in the loop yeah what it does is it it\u0027s a label and label tells you right on top of the label stack you find IOM metadata and then well the other headers and payload right yes I\u0027ll have a draft that is very similar to about one later on okay yeah thank you next one there is another one on IOM and SR v6 so this one uses IOM theory in the SRH for SR v6 and again same comment it is a spring actually it\u0027s also part of the six men dropped as well but we are flexible to do the work in a baby okay yeah okay so in addition to our OEM we expect there will be some other in natural services which need add some instruction header to the MPS packet so the current a common approach is use some indicator in the label stack then they will compete as the location between the label stack and is the payload so that\u0027s not scalable solution so here we actually propose you to add the extension headers to allow me to stack or the service header or instruction header together just after the normal MPs label stack so that\u0027s a we believe that\u0027s the most gullible way to do that one question not really for clarification we wanted here or somewhere else because there is no yes no more I think maybe the I\u0027m here some working groups not a better place for point good next we have considerations of encapsulation for SFC and I fit so basically again the current approach is to put the instruction header and also the metadata together for the ipv6 or SR v6 as that will cause some performance issues so we think that a more efficient ways actually splits our instruction header and is a metadata part into the different service header so we prefer to put instruction header before maybe the SRH if it\u0027s a v6 case or the routing options and then then puts the metadata part after after that that will be a more efficient solution in term of performance okay again the question do you want it here or somewhere else okay so - you do we want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:31",
    "text": "to have the encapsulation discussion now while it\u0027s fresh or do we go through the data export stuffing I think it might make sense categories of documents we have because good just up means that everybody so export I say both fares so we have raw export of iom data where we don\u0027t really convert it or interpret the fields aggregate the fields received in the I own data but export it in a in a kind of raw format which could help in in performance in data plane so we have the we have this draft which defines how the raw data can be can be in I mean encapsulated in the IP fixed records by setting by defying a bunch of set IDs and it also defines how additional contacts like a bit of the IP header or any of the preceding headers to IOM can be included alongside the I on data and options itself it does does give additional context on why this data was exported whether it was exported because the packet was getting dropped out due to conditional so there are a bunch of facts as well define in as part of the export Thank You next gets us I think there was only one on export that gets us into the domain of yang models and other operational models like profiles and what have you so I think that draft is progressing for a while it tries to go and really help with AI OEM configuration of individual notes because there is a load of operational things that need to happen for IOM to work that it\u0027s not really covered anywhere because we don\u0027t transport that information in a control protocol or in the data plane itself and hence there\u0027s been work done to go and drive configuration to the notes and that\u0027s covered in this particular draft and progressing for a while next IOM profile how Thomas raha wowie so this is a new draft and the idea is that it defines profiles the profile is a use case or set of use cases in IO am it typically defines a set of rules that limit limit the scope and functionality to a specific subset and by doing that we believe it simplifies implementation interrupt testing it\u0027s important to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:32",
    "text": "emphasize that quite a bit of a profile can be defined by specific assignment of the rank model the IOM Inc model and like we said there\u0027s a discussion tomorrow a side meeting at 6:30 p.m. which is related to IOM deployment considerations this will be one of the topics there so if you\u0027re interested please be there thanks so next it goes into tooling so it\u0027s one on kind of using ICMP to go and query and configure I um yeah so this chapter has already been presented twice you know I am working group unite my oh and the yo3 so we think it\u0027s already discussed down the middle east and awfulest there are two reasons I provided for IP I\u0027m working for to consider adopting this draft first there is interesting in the use for second layer its title a pesto IOM data working group chopped so I think it\u0027s bit wrong here ok next additional options that\u0027s on postcard was mentioned before mentioned before but is this draft we actually covered two variations so why as we said we introduced instruction header into the packet but you know that in another case that in case we don\u0027t have any possibility to add a new header to the packet then we can simply a marks the packet or color packet by reusing some existing base in the header fields so we can notify the note on the past who generates the postcard packet to the some connectors so in this draft basically we covered this two different variations the first variation with the instruction header we intend to make it another option for the IOM solution but Sasa the second variation with the marking capability I think it has its own merit and so it\u0027s supposed to be a independent standalone solution do you want to work here or are you planning to do it somewhere else III like to lay this trout to be adopted here definitely think that brings us to the end and I think the key questions if you want to go and once might more further I think it makes sense to have a discussion on what we want to go and get it opted here and or how were you want to go in which categories we want to go progress here and once we are clear on the categories on how to go and do that I have a view on on how we might go and skin that and cap cat what I think that\u0027s probably the biggest problem right now is looking at the amount of drafts we have in that particular category that don\u0027t really have a home right now and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:32",
    "text": "the number is growing so I\u0027m not gonna open to my coins yet please stay in queue if you\u0027d like yeah yeah we have some ideas um so Tony Rony sat down last night with the intention to look at these and actually spent a bit more time than we were intending to it\u0027s like wow this is actually I mean yeah I knew there were bunch of slides but this is a long list we have to think about it and I apologize that I didn\u0027t have a chance to get an email to the list before last night\u0027s stupid late but I think for the decision here and this is something that was was I think discussed in Bangkok and we just didn\u0027t follow up on it because you know I paid zero attention to anything since since Bangkok for um paternity leave and job change reasons we compute le blame it on me yeah I will totally take the blame for that I mean Tommy helped it but uh yeah so the the question is first is there another home for this right and we\u0027ll look at the six-man situation right like there\u0027s a working group they do v6 maintenance and they\u0027ve said we don\u0027t actually want you to bring options to us you know have people who understand the option do it in another working group so I think the four six men that you hit that you had the first question is there another working group yes do they want it no let\u0027s adopted my ppm right I think that\u0027s pretty clear can we actually go back to let\u0027s go through the list yeah no you need to you need to keep them you need to keep them in the loop yeah let\u0027s go through the encapsulations yeah oh okay SH this is an SLC we don\u0027t worry about it good check this one I have a whole bunch of questions about so I\u0027m gonna skip it i-i\u0027m over ipv6 I think we had pretty good success with the PDM header how we collaborated between the two working groups or we do the work here we want to make very clear to the ipv6 people that were not like trying to sneak something in underneath them so - you know work here happens here copies both lists we we talked to six men is that an ad interrupt or take the idea up so yes that\u0027s right also if you read FC 8200 they don\u0027t recommend use of hope options anymore right was that draft presented in six men was on the agenda for a Bangkok because of reasons it\u0027s on the agenda of six men on Friday and actually both drafts good so that that fact made us even write the deployment draft yep so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:32",
    "text": "that we have all arguments lined up in a single document so that six men has a better chance of digesting what we\u0027re doing actually I recommend to merge the draft I don\u0027t think it\u0027s useful to have two separate drafts merge the draft much the drafts because I wasn\u0027t aware of the poem draft for a long time it like you really want this information that\u0027s delicate because six men already recommends to make the draft the deployment draft more generic to not only cover IOM because it has a line of options that apply to all other considerations as well so it\u0027s like merging might not be the right way I think you need more text in the current IP or six option draft and we need to get the input from six men early on this one I think it we can still process it here we should probably not adopt it before there wasn\u0027t any discussion on six men but like please coordinate dislike sorry what is the decision criteria to go and move beyond six men discusses so how do we see a discussion conclude in six man I mean if you don\u0027t see the discussion don\u0027t conclude and I don\u0027t know how that will happen I don\u0027t know what the discussion will be because it didn\u0027t happen yet but if you don\u0027t see it concluded why not go through the end of the process there will be like is she considerations of birthdays and concerns right you have to get in touch with this community and you have to find it I\u0027m just wondering how long we go and take that yeah so that I mean they I assess it the discussion didn\u0027t help me at photo but if that is less we speak there might not be an ipv6 option okay okay actually now we got to go back up to the ether type thing so it turns out we don\u0027t have an 8:02 dot three liaison manager I thought we didn\u0027t we have NATO to that one liaison manager which is not the right thing to do for forgetting an ether type have you talked to Eric huh what one\u0027s not either nitrate isn\u0027t one I thought one was like other in caps and stuff he talked to Eric Nord Marc about this we should probably loop him in on making sure that we do the right thing I am I am disinclined to adopt a document a nine ppm that assigns an ether type just because it seems kind of difficult to justify under the Charter and I am not sure what the right working group for this is maybe int area or maybe ad sponsorship we\u0027ll be good to go and come up with a recommendation yes so that we are not so so my recommendation here would probably be interior but the way that I would check that recommendation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:33",
    "text": "is correct or known as to talk to Eric Nord Marc and I will take that on as an action item this week okay yeah good if somebody from an ad perspective would actually do that recommendation so that we have we can go to in dari with some authority there\u0027s our authority works but yeah so it\u0027s this window shopping so and I think that I think that Eric and I will try to so having said that let\u0027s pop back down to genève why do you if you get the ether pipe because ether gauge seems like it fixes the problem is there no reason do you save a bit here or no it just depends on how you want to go and do this right somebody has to decide great so I have before we do before we go on here I have a more high-level question like because I think you said this at some point you need to discuss use cases in scenarios you can need to figure out what you actually need I don\u0027t think just like spreading 20 grafts over the whole IETF is a good strategy and a different side it could be like to concentrate on like two or three of these first and then get them through the process and then talk about the other ones later and I would say that the ether type went there seems like a higher impact one because you can use it in a lot of different places and the v6 one seems like I am back one because it works on anything that in caps on v6 no no no it\u0027s not gonna happen buddy and dry I was about to mention that we should not forget that eyes G decided not to do before development yes yes that\u0027s not the only reason not to do this but it is a good one I didn\u0027t want to do this yeah so you\u0027ve the you\u0027ve presented these in spring oh yeah can you actually come up and answer a question you\u0027ve presented these in spring is there interest in adopting them since being yet okay it\u0027s zero zero one I just wanted to point out that the extension there isn\u0027t over left with extensions draft which is in the MPLS working group yeah and we have also seen transport I ppm that also talks about some part of this as well so there is overlap in different routes for this world is it different draft with the same group of authors or different drafts with different groups of authors those groups of authors should sit down and talk to each other and income to the working group I think like so following the policy that we came up with which i think is a pretty good one if you can get these in spring that\u0027s the right place to go because spring doesn\u0027t have a policy like six men that says hey we don\u0027t care about your extension headers just make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:33",
    "text": "sure you\u0027re not trying to sneak one over on us Greg you have a point here yeah actually I think that because with another document that was mentioned the commonality is MPLS encapsulation yep I think that MPLS working group has to be because again spring rule go to in Paris working yeah this doramin so rather than going to spring and then in pillars go to MPLS all the way okay that\u0027s a better yep thank you that is it yep good take it SMC actually down have we skipped srt-6 yeah actually again if you follow the discussion of SRH that shows how particular six men is about headers yep so I think that not placing the six documents in six men will extend the time of going back and forth I would strongly encourage still talk to them and ask them to adopt these documents there rather than here because otherwise going back and forth asking them to review would be a nightmare because a service SLA ship discussion is very extensive and they\u0027re going through a lot of revisions tracking issues so better to do it there so the explained the rationale that we had for you know saying do it here is that that was the process that we had with PDM and it worked pretty well I think the segment routing stuff is it is much larger than PBM was right and that\u0027s why it doesn\u0027t work well for that the IOM encapsulation kind of sits between those two right because PDM was a self self-contained thing the IOM header is a reference to a a I think that we should have better control over the scope of but a a contained thing and segment routing kind of gets much deeper into the machinery of he said yes order of the headers and everything and everything so again it it requires very high degree of this six tunnels we\u0027re eight so yeah so that would be duh so at this point I say we go through the mic line how do you have one more on yeah so actually what happened with this drama co-author is that we took content of this draft and put it into the six men as sorry six om dropped and that is being presented either today or Friday right so we will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:34",
    "text": "continue the work in six men so we will discontinue distract good and now after an ad interrupted really in the charter of six minutes very explicit they have the authority to maintain extensions modifications but the working group may review document from another working group and in consolidation with the responsibility both working groups may recommend the IH deeds that the six men working group has gone but yeah to move on and but the the consensus from the sixteen working groups needs to say neither first we need to go there first like if they say they want to do it please do it there if they say they don\u0027t want to do it there but they don\u0027t have concerns please do it here okay yep good so my cologne is open on encapsulation we\u0027re going to talk about export after at this ends anything to do with operation you need to adjust the mic it\u0027s not yeah my name is Johanna from Huawei I\u0027m a new nice table mated to draft I think one draft is it related to LM named multi multi pencil compared to my moment this is for the MP and use MP scenario what will consider for this Naru I think on please pay more attention to my draft I have no chance to present to my idea so yeah I would take that to the list and I would try to work with the authors of related drafts on that but I\u0027m sorry we don\u0027t have any time for that on the agenda right now and this is not an encapsulation question thank you thank you gori gori gori first and who ran up here from sixth month where they were talking about some things you should know if you\u0027re doing the extension head of things so please avoid the conflict next idea yep it was actually on a conflict list I\u0027m not sure what happened I\u0027m not fully convinced personally that the extension had a thing is done for places where you want to add this to your equipment so in a constrained environment where you\u0027ve got an operator who really wants to do this then extension headers likely work so please don\u0027t just throw it away because you think it might not work across the whole inset at the moment wait yeah so one of the one of the little notes that that came out of the discussion is the 8200 is designed for less constrained environments and yeah you know we generally say hop-by-hop headers they kind of suck in the internet but if you\u0027re touching the equipment to the point that it\u0027s going to be able to do IO am you can fix the hbh at the same time that\u0027s a good point other comments on encapsulation okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:35",
    "text": "we will try and compile all of these notes down in chizel what\u0027s the conclusion now what\u0027s inclusion let\u0027s go through so what is the the procedure that we want to go and follow so actually I would say just as you know I\u0027m gonna escalate this to chair what I would really like is a picture of the IOM ecosystem as it is that would have actually helped me well show that on Thursday accelerometry talk yeah and it\u0027s ugly yes right because you have AI ppm going in circles then you have AI ppm liaising with probably a 1000 or working groups yes and they go in circles great and as Moses makes things go really fast yes because people are putting the thing right now into hot where multiple of the people here in the room and it\u0027s not helping I can tell you right okay I asked a slightly different question I was interested in V do you have an ad interruptive yeah my slightly different question is I\u0027d like to see the UM the overall technical architecture of what it is you\u0027d like to have great and then filter that through the roadmaps of each of the working groups that you need to get consensus on to get it done and then batting I\u0027m not following what do you mean with architecture yeah I want to box and so there\u0027s IOM right there\u0027s the data model right there are a set of processes that operate on the data model and then there are set of encapsulations and then there are a set of interactions between the encapsulations right in trying to figure out where to prioritize how to find a plan to get this through the IETF it would be very nice to have picture of boxes and lines that we can kind of put crosses through and say we\u0027re gonna triage this out of the way in in the first phase right like so it seems to me like if you want to go fast just looking at what\u0027s you know what I think is possible I think the ether type thing is probably possible but I need to talk to people to know whether that is or we need to talk to people know whether it is and I can make those introductions and get that conversation started I think the six main thing is the next the next highest impact thing and that\u0027s a little hairy because we\u0027re doing a lot of other stuff ipv6 at the time right it\u0027s like so we\u0027re you know segment routing is causing a bandwidth problem and networking right and this is related to segment routing like kind of deeply right so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s getting all the things uh putting them on order is is yes it\u0027s hard beyond that I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure how to prioritize the other in calculations and I think you notice that we\u0027re trying to play nice yeah which is why you have this long laundry list of drafts yeah as opposed to be wound a new protocol number right right I think that was like playing nice and following the procedures understand what you just said "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:39",
    "text": "understand what you just said like what is a new protocol so I think I\u0027m basically saying the same thing but I want to ask question first you said people are putting this in hardware what are people putting in hardware not like all of those 20 encapsulations right which one are people putting in hard way which and one other ones people actually want to deploy yeah the discussion tomorrow right I think that\u0027s one of the points as long as you don\u0027t have an answer to that I cannot tell you which one to prioritize right and the way to get first is pick the one that you care about and push for it we can push for like 20 v4 v6 GRE so either type anyway I don\u0027t believe that anything is like putting in hardware at the same time by everybody I don\u0027t believe it sorry we should cut the mic cut we\u0027re kind of like lines we won\u0027t know this discussion for a Broadcom hardware vendor right now one of the challenges we are facing from the island encapsulation is a nightmare to implement in the hardware the permutation combinations of different protocol is just mind-boggling that is my feedback we can have a discussion Burak also from Mellanox also hardware manufacturer the intention is to support these particles right when is provender but the intention is the support IOM for this protocol so I don\u0027t see any protocol that is maybe again unfortunately the important protocols are being blocked for a long time and the non important protocols support by IDF like genera fight we would like to have solutions for what people are running actually in the network not something that is not running yeah I P for ipv6 Vixen I believe the first three we must support as soon as possible sorry so as a 6-man member and I responded a couple of emails and I would say this when this work is brought into six-man I\u0027ll be one of them to say unless this draft or any of the visits related drafts are changing the protocol specification six men is not the right home six men could provide the guidance could provide the feedback but that\u0027s not the place for the working group for this draft to be adopted in networking room let\u0027s heads up Greg knows DCT again I kind of asked with their discussion of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:43",
    "text": "what hardware vendors implement and how it affects this undertows ation so we have many examples that our adopters will get burned because they do with their non stable specification and sorry but that\u0027s a reality of the process you know we produce in quality documentation and specification and it takes that time it takes that time so your as a business can make a decision another thing is that I really don\u0027t understand the mark by Frank what is that making play fair play nicely what is opposite to that he said what because again we all here and we\u0027re spending our time discussing this so please I think that you should appreciate that but you are kind of opening to everybody that you will start playing nicely I have an observation about the encapsulation so the way I understand the layering there is a protocol header there is a data header which we call it as a metadata header and then there is a data itself in today\u0027s presentation I saw a lot of flags which are squeezed in into the data header which effectively impacts the forwarding behavior of the packet in this case ion packet I think that\u0027s not correct the right place I think one of the person made that point earlier as well the right place is in the protocol header the data header should all only contain information like the size of the metadata right to check some of the metadata something which is related to the data it\u0027s all nothing else that\u0027s just observation I want to put on the record right cool thank you all right I think we\u0027re out of time for this I have a couple comments of like what I\u0027d like to see as next steps and directions to summarize so first it\u0027s great that we\u0027re having some side discussions please have those please send out summary and notes of that to the whole I ppm list so we can follow up on what is discussed there as far as the related drafts and encapsulations it seems like we have a next step to do on the ethernet side on the ethertype we have a presentation in six-man we definitely hear the results of that I think that\u0027s one of the more practical next steps to take and let\u0027s have a follow-up discussion based on the results of v6 and ethertype neck time the other ones I think we would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:45",
    "text": "benefit by focusing on fewer and really just focusing on getting those three as Mario saying earlier so I think one thing that we can go do as a as an outcome off the discussion tomorrow as they roll up off maybe we can come up with that priority list let\u0027s choose like one and so when we talk next one or two and next time at the ones that aren\u0027t on the priority list we\u0027re not going to have discussions for those we\u0027re gonna focus a slightly longer discussion on the ones we care about then related to the data draft I think we\u0027ve seen a lot of feedback from the working group that what is currently being specified in the flags not necessarily bad but they are concerning they are doing extensions that were less confident in than we are in the data type so I think you know long at the end of the day when this document eventually goes to the iesg to the point of the milestone can it have non data mechanisms in it sure those may end up being in there but it may be best for now to have that data document be a little bit more stripped down not specify those five behaviors you can leave them resolved and maybe let\u0027s write up these other behaviors in other draft that maybe we fold in but let\u0027s have that discussion separately just to really focus and clarify what we\u0027re doing and then if we want to essentially adopt that other work and fold it back into the document we can do that but we can do that as a working group and we can be really confident in that so I think that\u0027s practical next steps here yeah I think breaking that out into either a dedicated document or a dedicated section the point is is that we basically want to get to the point where um we have high confidence in a set of the bits in the header so that Hardware work can continue and then the things we have lower confidence on like however we punked them in the document we need to say okay well these are the things that you can these are the things that you can do now these are the things that you can leave to later and development cycle and whether that\u0027s a separate document or you know I you know eventually we want to produce a set of readable artifacts so that others can implement to those as opposed to implement interoperability with our do that\u0027s out there but that\u0027s really kind of an editorial question is - how many documents there are when we when we finally do the thing but it needs to be sort of like clearly marked great like so that and one more question on think we we covered the endcap category we didn\u0027t cover any of the other categories could you go and give us an indication on whether you want to go and see that word install progressed so I can speak to the IP fix thing because I\u0027m I\u0027ve you know I\u0027m sorry that like there isn\u0027t working group for that the correct place to take that would be ops AWG I\u0027m not sure that they care you can maybe send a heads up to that list hey we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:46",
    "text": "considering some data export some which would extend IP fix the primary or is actually gonna be an Ino review because that\u0027s that\u0027s where the the informational machines come out you can ask Diana for an earlier view about even before it\u0027s adopted um that\u0027ll basically go through and and come back to me probably uh if absolutely she doesn\u0027t care that I think it\u0027s fine without your you know I would say like for all of them let\u0027s choose the priorities if you want to let\u0027s focus on like if you want to choose your priorities as two different in caps types let\u0027s focus on those if you want to choose your priorities as not an in caps type but one of these other drafts choose that I think so it\u0027s not me to change right I think it\u0027s working great for sure but let\u0027s let\u0027s have those inside meetings and I think we do need to move on if we could have data pipes are easier things to agree on on the namespaces if you can concentrate on that then that\u0027s agreement which we can make easy try to hold to five minutes for all these that\u0027s great thank you I\u0027m al raqqa syria from telecom italia this is the draft about multi-point alternate marking performer we are already presenting so que we can go home very quick so we have a much time for the next draft okay it is drafted define a way to monitor moot point flow it\u0027s possible to define as a single monitor from the point of view of a packet loss and average delay next slide define is to locate where is the I get lost for example or a big delay this can we use a property of trust of a graph that is clustering next slide it\u0027s possible to divide the graph in clusters the cluster is the smallest sub graph that have the property of a packet loss the propolis is dead old a packet that come inside that is part of graph is equal to the packet that go out if there is a path across the difference is the packet loss so it\u0027s possible to locate where is the impairment also if you monitor all the traffic is a single flow next one for a delay we use a method that is named make me in delay that is already defined in RFC 8321 the visit summary summarization about the time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:48",
    "text": "stamp in input and the summarization all the time step in output and difference between the two is the min delay so this min delay is true also for so we can summarize all that extends over each point of the classes excuse me to summarize all the types of the outer point the difference is the min delay the next step is the a finger there is a draft the air FEC 5475 that combined with our FCAT 321 400 making came monitory single packet identifying the single packet using the edge of the packets so it\u0027s possible to filter using a part of the issue to capture the sell catch the same packets in all points of the network where the suspect pass and then to compare using the remaining part of the hashing to identify the single packets okay there is a case study that is drafted of Sam bonnet model young FSM they define a CDN fine using this methodology next slide okay there is only changes from the last version is the introduction for any cast traffic so it is a kind of monitoring framework with unicast and anycast traffic because the interest they any gas traffic is one too many flow that is a case that is already foresee okay so when we want to study the path to became an FC and so we ask you if all is ok there is some comments and so on stream it is methodology is defined by Brian tram in previous I ppm draft ppm spinner this methodology is a form of art and marking that works in a client-server protocol and the main ideas of this methodology is that the measurement is explicit there is no reason to send packets of OM for example to share the data but the measurement is library seeing the length the time of the square wave that is generated using this pin bit so if an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:48",
    "text": "observer was during the path only measuring the length of the square wave it can measure the end-to-end a client/server delay after t-spin bit other two bit are defined in this draft that define the valid age counter that corrected the spin bit in case of some parents out of sequence in particular so the the measurement of discarded to avoid errors losses and so on we can go okay I already said that some limitation in the spin bit that back is the improvement to avoid is a mutation the packet loss tend to cause wrong estimates because the edge can change in the ordering can cause false periods shorter periods that is only a reordering of the edges in other problems they all in the traffic because all the measurement made using real traffic if there isn\u0027t the real trophy threesome also the measurement cannot suffice okay we introduced two new bits instead the two bits of biology counter our proposal the first one is the delay sample the day sample is the double marking let me say of FEC 8321 we marks only one packet inside each period as delay sample and measuring at this packet that bounces between the two ends it is possible to have a precise measurement also in case or out of sequence okay we can skip because okay you can go okay the properties of a spin beat of a end of the dice sample is possible to have a two-point a round-trip delay in order to separate if we have a two measurement point or a one measurement point on both the direction to separate the delay between the delay to the left and between the right to the right we can skip okay using a simple formula we can subtract the delay from the different measurement point to have the measurement of the delay in the middle so we can measure part of the network part of the different domain different operator domains to divide the delay and to measure where is the delay okay short comparison between back the previous proposal and delay sample the new proposed are the main difference are that BEC uses to beat and in a sample only one but there is some drawbacks for a delay sample because using a one bit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:48",
    "text": "if there is a loss of the delay sample we use empty period without delay sample to signal to the server if there is a loss so this measurement is discarded because we have only one bit we can use a code as back do another problem is that we have a more complicated observer implementation okay because in this case the asada implementation was made using a waiting period in order to skip the auto sequence strength is detours also of out of sequence instead the back here discard the measurement okay we can go run trip packet rows we had the second add additional bit that measure round-trip packet loss the client marks a train of packets that this packets bounces between try and the seller to complete two rounds ever server accounts the market packets during the transit company numbers to find losses the problem is to maintain the same speed on market packets during the two direction so we use a talking system in order to maintain the speed of market packets with packet loss in the two direction in order to have the same properties of spin beat we can go to the last last words about before we can see that we have the same properties to separate to split the network in many sub networks in order to a measurement also for packet loss as for spin beat thank you thank you much um so individual thanks lot for this work um this is pretty cool I think there\u0027s you know when we took the spin bit too quick there is a very clear signal that you know one bit is okay but you don\u0027t get enough out of the two extra bits for the back for them to do that there that\u0027s why I brought as an individual sort of that the general sort of framework for giving these things into IP PM because I think they can be applied to any protocol you could even also put something like this on top of IOM if you wanted to UM that was not a serious discussion point at this time so I would ask just sort of like other people I don\u0027t take anymore working their time with us right now but other people who are interested in this sort of thing we should probably have discussion on the list as to whether we\u0027d like to adopt generalized measurement methodologies based on things like the spin bit um going on going forward in the working group so so thanks a lot for that I think we should we should have that discussion and I\u0027ll try to kick it off without my shirt on Thanks sequence is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:50",
    "text": "possible in this case with the double marking let me say to measure also particular delay that occurred in case of auto sequencing in stead of spin beat that for this case is impossible to measure so for maximum average delay is not so significant for a for me when maximum the device sample is very useful okay the loss that is not measured in now this whole song I am going to present this enhanced or alternate marking master okay so the ordinate marking has been standardized in RFC 8321 so basically a single beat can be used to do the technique on T to find the packet drop or we used to measure the past agency it can be used and to end or per hop hop is the measurement unfortunately in many a protocols 14 transport protocols it\u0027s very hard to find them find the place to allocate this to the speeds so also you know with just a single PD we can only do one thing we can just do the effect account in order to the environment so that\u0027s also not very scalable if we don\u0027t want to do both or to do more C\u0027s obviously it\u0027s very hard to extend this protocol so so the basic idea is that we actually we can use a you know if you can enhance this with a flow ID basically it can help us to identify out which flow go through the merriment also we can reserve some more data to do more see see the future so so here apparently I\u0027ll just use trying to use the existing piece from the packet header are maybe no sufficient to support that but today we have this IOM solutions and some other postcard base telemetry many other invent American - schemes all need to insert some actual extra instruction header to the packet so so that\u0027s why we propose actually in those instruction headers there are some enough unused space reserved base to be able to use to support these kind of features therefore we propose to just reuse to power some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:50",
    "text": "piece from those instruction headers to supports the enhanced alternate margin so the first solution in the in the end-to-end IOM trees mode no a tranny mode basically right now there are 16 reserved piece so we can allocate two piece to do one for the loss meant another for the delay merriment and also we enhance this header with a flow ID to check out the flow to be mirrored next and for the for the post card based telemetry currently there are also in the current specification there are also eight reserved piece that can be used for other purpose therefore we borrow to base offer same thing to do the lost merriment and today merriment at the same time by setting this to two piece the flow ID is already encoded in this interest header so there\u0027s no other information need to be added so thank you any comments thank you thank you thanks Thomas right here from Huawei okay so this draft has been around for a while just a very short background what we want to do is to measure the traffic between two measurement points MP 1 and MP 2 next please FC 83 21 which was mentioned here a couple of times defines alternate marking the idea is that you use a single bit in the header to mark the traffic the color changes periodically and that allows you to measure the traffic next please the same RFC also defines double marking the idea is that you have two separate bits one for loss measurement the other for delay measurement next please so what do I do in the current draft we do two things actually one is to present a few new marking methods which are specifically efficient they use either a single bit per packet or zero bits per packet and provide the same functionality that we saw for lost measurement delay measurement and the draft also summarizes all the existing alternate marking methods out there and summarises kind of compares between them next please so there\u0027s a bunch of related drafts which make use of alternate marking in one form with another or another and some of them are pretty new some of them have been around for a while we believe that all these drafts can make use of our draft and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:51",
    "text": "believe that all the authors of these drafts should certainly be familiar with this draft and should have an opinion about it so we want to encourage people especially the authors of these drafts please review and please send us comments next please one feedback that we received from al thanks al there were several comments but the most notable one is that we may want to split the draft into two drafts just to separate between defining new methods and summarizing what we have so far so we\u0027re considering to do that we\u0027re looking for more feedback so please if you think this is a good draft let us know if you think it is a bad draft also let us know if you don\u0027t care also let us that\u0027s also an important feedback okay thank you thanks which is Greg Greg Greg is don\u0027t hide behind the column Greg thank you thank you appreciate their giving opportunity so this is update to the draft that is a company to stem-based specification which just thanks for your support and consideration cleared the working request code so what updated we identify now there are types so their idea of extensions is that we have their base header which is backward compatible with their t1 test packet format that is followed by TL via for extensions in these types we identified the mandatory range and optional range and so to use extensions we identify in this document propose some number of different TVs as extra padding to vary their size of their test packet do our testing of their quality of service on a path how it\u0027s being treated one way and both ways so basically one can use it to do cos testing of the network on different causes directing not not only generating from the sender on the different cost markings but instructing the reflector to use a specified cost value on reflected packet and recording their information than being received next slide please so extra padding is a similar to packet beginning that is defined in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:53",
    "text": "Oh womp and t1 and our proposal is to minimize use of extra padding in stamp just to guarantee that that gets our symmetrical size and then to control their size of the test packet using the extra padding TOB next like this so in this version we clarified the use of information field in location TOB and I would not read it so please look it up and appreciate your comments and questions a timestamp Tildy yes if you look back in all womp and tea womp we believe that their attempt or intention of error estimate could have been what we are trying to do with the tee times to MTO V in the timestamp till V it characterizes only for the reflector not for the sender because again sender will no ingress and egress of the test packet how the time stamps being received and how their clock synchronization on a sender so we obtaining this information only from the reflector and to try to characterize their source of quark synchronization and method of getting their wall clock time of day time stamping because these affect their our accuracy of the measurement next so of course of service already I have mentioned that idea is to verify how class of service done over the path I think because often especially in multi service wireless access where they provide 2g 3G and 4G 5g these a map to different classes sometimes remapping might be missed configurate and operators are really pulling their hair trying to test it because why this class of traffic gets squeezed where it should not so the idea is to give it operators to to explicitly specify a course of service on a test packet and then basically you can generate the sequence of test packets with the predetermined cost marking and then receive it back and analyze and see whether relamping happens in their path and if it\u0027s as designed or there is some problem and then do investigation thing where happens out of time sorry I just okay just as our basic last thing is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:54",
    "text": "please read it comment and we appreciate consideration for the working group adoption especially since the base is cleared there Rosco alright thank you ten seconds like it\u0027s gonna die so I see that lost direct lost 30 LV is not there I think we need to discuss the direct loss theory for counter and what we need to do about it a very simple explanation direct to us is there it\u0027s just not yet updated so that\u0027s why not included but we need to talk about it because I think there is alternate proposal for this as well and we need to converge on it yeah let\u0027s talk it please discuss on a list blue sheets if you have not done the blue sheets find the blue sheets anyone who hasn\u0027t done it yet okay could we and where\u0027s the other one I see one thank you yep thanks that concludes our meeting we\u0027ll see you in Montreal and please do go to the site meetings if you\u0027re interested in the IOM stuff and we look forward to a summary of those discussions and we will be concluding working group last calls on our documents yes oh yes great ok and if you want to discuss the scheduling for them "
  }
]