[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "[Music] I know but it\u0027s not but it just does its broke it\u0027s a button yeah I know okay everybody we\u0027re gonna get started this is the Ellis our working group maybe um Alistar could you shut that door no ok so again this is the first meeting the first session of Dallas our working group we left off at no well slide so this is the note well from the the most current version does anybody need me to read the note well slide you stop nodding your head okay so we\u0027re gonna move on to the agenda to these status slides so see there okay I\u0027m gonna try and go through these quick we we had a very prolific third of the year and got through a lot of these are SCS published I do have the one no SPF v2 extensions that was actually a beer document but the other ones all published granted they most of them are pretty simple extensions but it was nice "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:12",
    "text": "there\u0027s there\u0027s a thing there it\u0027s not there has nothing to do with Chinese food the whining is is the MSG that\u0027s MSD to next slide okay so we have a lot of these we have the ton encapsulations giraffe still waiting more than a year now and on the it uses the Ayanna registry and the BGP document there\u0027s a lot of bests and BGP documents probably half dozen documents depending on this it\u0027s being presented tomorrow and IDR hopefully we can move forward oh shit we also have the OSPF OSPF and OSPF III extensions and we\u0027re waiting on the inter up with LD P draft and the M POS data plane segment routing drafts those are both spring documents and I\u0027m hoping the former I think the former is almost done the latter I\u0027m not sure Interop with LD P LD P is missing next slide okay the first one H bit support that\u0027s been waiting on the office they promised me something this week so actually we have updated the graph but we missed their deadline so it will be done soon so it\u0027s often right now it opens up it opens it opens when the ITF starts okay so you can you can update it and we can ping L borrow and let them know this comments eius eius extensions for now we\u0027ll have all of our OS r documents or MPLS data plane segment routing will be once we satisfy we got two of them on the RFC queue waiting for miss references with miss refs and this one once we get past LRO\u0027s review he just gave us comments in the last week or two we\u0027ll have them all done and we\u0027ll be ready to start on other the flooding and other documents we have these two yang models their way down ad to review they\u0027re kind of big but they\u0027ve got they they should be alright they\u0027ve gone through several yang doctor abuse and I just requested this cross address family publication for that one excellent this is in working through a glass call and encourage everybody to review it this is the more deterministic restart signaling for is is similar to what we have before SPF so you can do like a pre-planned Reese you can you can request restart graceful "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "restart procedures prior to restarting and we believe these two are ready for a working grass call we have the intent to do them they\u0027ve been around quite a long time there\u0027s at least for those bf one there\u0027s some implementation work I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know about is is I\u0027m not sure but I know we have OSPF and next slide okay we\u0027re looking for both these two is is and OSPF the ELC giraffes show who\u0027s not here but I think Stefan\u0027s going to update these and we\u0027ll probably we actually have enough changes we\u0027ll probably do another working group last call I haven\u0027t talked to the offers but at that time we may think about combining them into one since we\u0027re going to do another working book last call anyway next slide and flex algorithm there\u0027s some implementation momentum I don\u0027t think we\u0027re ready for working to the last call yet but it\u0027s it\u0027s just moving along where else it well one thing I did I talked to the IDR chairs after the first IDR session and especially for some of these simpler extensions they\u0027d like to have us allocate an Dianna code point for BGP LS and do it in the same draft so you don\u0027t have you know for every extension in is is and OSPF just like we we combined some of the drafts with is is and OSPF when they were really sitting exactly the same extension just encoded two different way in the same in the same spirit we\u0027d also defined the bgp LS code point right away and we got these two yang models for sr now that we\u0027ve got these base i think before we did anything those were just going at least wait till we get through the ad review on the bass yang models before we try and working group last qualities but we\u0027re gonna do that shortly after that alright next presentation oh yeah we\u0027ve been pretty busy as far as discussions and we\u0027re gonna have updates on at least at least the first two of these graphs these are the more significant ones the other two are sort of protocol maintenance that we approved one is one request across from the PCE working group we already have PCE discovery just an extension on it also discover the indication that the PCE server my at the moment I can\u0027t remember the name that what is it PC what yeah yeah yeah oh yeah yeah they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "learn the md5 but I was thinking of the difference between the client and you call it the PCs that\u0027s the client yeah yeah for the client to discover the server\u0027s security and that\u0027s it yeah so I guess the sort of big thing that we\u0027ve managed to do is get everyone to mostly agree to the resolution with the dynamic flooding so that\u0027s a good say yes od I think your good morning so I\u0027m very pleased to report that we have accepted the dynamic flooding draft as a working group document we have there\u0027s no page let\u0027s see I happen to show some friends some of our simulation results and they commented that they wanted to see a whole lot more of them so have some of those to show you thank you mr. Scudder we have two outstanding issues we\u0027ve already discussed a little bit on the mailing list these are the question of how fast we add temporary additions to the flooding topology when we realize we\u0027ve had partition and then also are we going to include lands in the flooding topology as an explicit part of the topology description we\u0027ve had that hashed out a bit on the mailing list but have not come to consensus we this week had a little lunch and arm wrestling match between the parties in having the discussion we think we have come to rough agreement there and we will return that discussion to the mailing list to achieve consensus after IETF on with the pretty pictures so just to show the flooding topology on some simple dense graphs this is k5 the complete graph on five nodes the dotted lines show the links that are excluded from the flooding topology so you see that this is already winning about 50% next slide okay 10 this is a full graph a complete graph on 10 nodes as you can see this is already having wonderful effects right most of the links are no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "longer included as we scale upwards next slide this is K 160 160 nodes and very Spartan next slide some of you are interested in leaf spine topologies this is a Lisa pint apology with eight spines and 200 leaves and as you can see it looks dense but actually this is very sparse this is like 95% of the links our block is this flooding topology have two ways to get to everything all these all these simulations are one-way everything is by connected the diameter is constrained and also the degree of each node is constrained so what that means here is that all the spines are equally loaded next slide we also were interested in looking at close to apologies this is a three stage with 16 top nodes 64 middles and 160 leaves at the bottom as you can see algorithm does all sorts of weird things but turns out a beautiful picture okay next slide there are topologies where the algorithm doesn\u0027t do pretty things this is an 8x8 grid just a chessboard and as you can see the dotted lines are relatively few and far between this does not work very well why not well it\u0027s not a dense graph the problem that we\u0027re trying to solve is flooding on dense graphs when you throw this on a graph that\u0027s not dense it doesn\u0027t help very much doesn\u0027t hurt and that\u0027s actually more of the point for our testing is to show that the algorithm doesn\u0027t break anything but it doesn\u0027t really help very much okay next slide so just to recap the two issues we have outstanding temporary flooding so when we realize we need to add temporary flooding onto the the flooding topology because we have had a partition then there are two opinions ones do we add as much stuff as and folks some folks favor this because it minimizes the convergence time we want to get the flooding topology back to covering everything as quickly as possible that\u0027s certain so do we turn just turn on all the links and see what happens flipside is well if we add on too many links we can recreate a catastrophic collapse and obviously that\u0027s got infinite convergence time so that\u0027s not good so how do we do this so we don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:15",
    "text": "trigger that and therefore the conservative approach might be to add links very slowly again we\u0027re gonna continue discussing this on the mailing list but those are the two prevailing opinions so no one\u0027s asking for the goldilocks solution well everybody wants both of course and nobody has proposed something that gives us both the second issue is putting pseudo nodes in the flooding topology currently as the craft reads you cannot describe a LAN in as being part of the flooding topology this comes gives us some topological constraints if we do have a flooding topology that might include lands and area leader cannot describe it then you might get a topology that is radically different than what the area leader intended and that could be a problem we I think we\u0027ve come to the agreement that if LAN is in the flooding topology that all nodes should be flooding to and from that lamp selectively flooding that gets really complicated really quickly so then the two opinions that have been put forth on the mailing list either we put all lands on the flooding topology and this makes everything very very simple or if we have too many lands that seems like that could be problematic so we need to be specific and that\u0027s that allows us the the area leader to describe exactly what should and should not be on the topology so again we\u0027ll have that discussion continued on mailing list and that\u0027s all I have any questions thank you very much to clear it fast enough in my old age year dave allen from erickson well this speak up do you have any information on the diameter of the flooding topology relative to the type of graph the question is do we have any information on the diameter of the flooding topology relative to the original graph so that is algorithm specific in our implementation yes we constrained the diameter we definitely increase the diameter okay for a complete graph the diameter originally is one as you can see the diameter in graphs we generate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:15",
    "text": "much higher so that of course causes increased flooding time but we do have a diameter constraint in there trying to minimize the diameter because we don\u0027t want it to go unbounded okay thank you AC Linda I got a I got a quick one here I I definitely agree that you would not want to do anything on a land but flood you know you know basically because you have designated I mean a dr or it is it\u0027s gonna be a good flooded to all the notes you don\u0027t want to change your on a chain touch that but wouldn\u0027t it be algorithm specific just whether you you you made you know how you prefer glands and how you didn\u0027t I don\u0027t see why you\u0027d need to maybe I don\u0027t understand the problem I don\u0027t see why you need to put all the lands on the flooding topology if the algorithm didn\u0027t need to put them all on so so the real question is whether we are allowed to specify lands in the signaling of the flooding apology okay if you can\u0027t specify it then no matter what your algorithm happens to do there\u0027s no way to say so do we have the specificity in the actual description any other questions I just want to test okay this isn\u0027t my keys work going once going twice done thank you I think it\u0027s less right yes or less this is I this yes but this is the alignment where can\u0027t see the whole slide anyways unless Ginsburg talking about the spine leaf draft of next slide please so this is just a summary we\u0027ve presented this before can run over overview of what this draft achieves it\u0027s a modest extension to is is so in spine later topologies using these modest modest extensions you can get a great reduction in the amount of flooding basically what we do is in most cases we completely eliminate flooding to the leaves entirely we also have some support for zero-touch provisioning or you can advertise your tier and just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:18",
    "text": "discover it we do have provisions to handle what you end up with basically if it new leaf nodes is default routes to the spines but in cases where spine notes don\u0027t have full connectivity to all of the leaves we have provisions to get a subset of the more specific routes that are required so that we don\u0027t black hole things and we have hooks so that extensions like the flooding topology that Tony was just talking about we can advertise that the the links to the leaves are not being used for flooding so the algorithm can can know what those links are and just basically take them out of the calculation of the flooding topology next slide so what\u0027s happened since the previous version we became a working group document we had some comments about some of the information that we were allowing to be sent in homes we\u0027ve simplified that and split it we had one TLV now we have two different tlvs I\u0027ll talk about that a little more and we\u0027ve reintroduced support some limited support for a connection leaf to leaf connections next slide so when this was actually a long time ago you had this leaf Khalif support and it was the one place it kind of scared me where there was possibilities for like loops it seemed like right did you guys I mean do you think you addressed did you see that as well and do you think you addressed it yes but I\u0027ll talk abouts more so you can ask more a more specific question okay so we have a spying leaf TLV in the hello which does a couple of things one it allows you to advertise your tier if you are able to discover it and there\u0027s a bit that just says the tier field is valid and if that gets not set whatever values in there is ignored and then we have two flags one of which is sent by the leaf node that says hey I would I would like to be part of the reduce flooding which means I don\u0027t want my spy known neighbors to flood LSPs to me and we have an AR bit that\u0027s sent by the spy notes that indicates that they can be used as a default gateway this TLV previously had additional information which we moved into a separate TLV so now this is the information that\u0027s the only information in our extensions that\u0027s sent in halls next slide we created a new TLV which we call the leaf set TLV and this is going to be sent in Circuit scope Dallas Peas as defined by RFC 7356 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "and there are currently two sub tlvs that we\u0027ve defined associated with this TLV we have a leaf neighbor\u0027s sub TOB which is sent by the spine nodes and that indicates the set of leaf nodes to which this by known has connectivity this information is useful to the leaf nodes they could compare the set of leaf node neighbors that each spine owned advertises and therefore detect that og this this by known neighbor that I might be using as default gateway doesn\u0027t actually have reach ability to the full set of leaf nodes next slide the second sub TLD and in the leaf set TLV is sent by the leaf nodes so in the case I was just talking about where the leaf node discovers that hey there\u0027s a spy node I was using him as a default gateway but he doesn\u0027t seem to have full connectivity to all the nodes the spine node can send a request or the leaf node excuse me can send a request to the spine node to said could you pretty please send me prefix reach ability information associated with this set of leaf nodes so it\u0027s just a list of the system IDs of the leaf nodes which he\u0027s retrieved from the sub TLD that we showed on the previous slide the spine node will then respond by sending and yet again in the circuit scoped osp\u0027s he\u0027ll simply send the standard prefix for each ability tlvs such as 135 and 236 - the leaf node on request and say okay here\u0027s you know here are the prefixes that are associated with that leaf node and that allows the leaf node to install more specific routes to those destinations next level okay as Chris\u0027s question highlighted in in early versions of the draft we had connections between the leaf nodes there were some issues raised with that we took it out but there are deployment cases where people would like to be able to send traffic direct from leaf to leaf so we put this back in but I think I\u0027ve jumped ahead of myself here yeah yeah sorry you got me sorry I was just thinking we\u0027re about to go to that I\u0027m sorry back back up let me get this light because that\u0027s all so we we\u0027ve introduced to bits one of them is is new to this version of the draft that\u0027s associated with an existing TLD the link attribute sub TLV that was defined by RFC 50:29 the the I\u0027ve listed here all the bits that are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:23",
    "text": "including the ones that are currently defined so there\u0027s a local protection and an excluded from local protection those were defined many years ago the two new bits one of them is sent by the spines that says hey I am connected to some leaf nodes that want to be excluded from flooding you know and these are the link this is the one of those links and that tells an extension like the flooding topology the optimized flooding topology that says hey you don\u0027t need to consider this link just part of your flooding topology that\u0027s been defined for some time in versions of the draft the new bit that we added in in this new version of the draft is sent by the leaf nodes and this bit just simply indicates I am connected to at least one spine note and you\u0027ll see how we use that now you can go to the next slide so again we we put back in the ability to to support leaf to leaf connections we\u0027re recommending that you only have one leaf neighbor because there are some consequences of having many largely it means you\u0027re going to increase flooding unnecessarily one things we want to do with the lease we\u0027re trying to keep the leaf implementation fairly simple so we\u0027re not proposing that the leaf note do any kind of special logic associated with flooding so if you now connect if the leaf node is not gonna doesn\u0027t have any leaf node neighbors he simply sends his own LSPs to the spy known as heat or Moyer would do but now if he has a leaf neighbor he\u0027s going to get the LS piece from that leaf neighbor unless we define some special rules in this case that he\u0027s also going to send those LS B\u0027s to the spine so the spines not going to get in this case buying one for example would get LS B\u0027s from Leafs one both from leaf one and from leaf two obviously you start having lots of leaf neighbors you\u0027ve increased the amount of flooding so we\u0027re recommending that you limit this to one leaf neighbor which I think from a deployment standpoint meets the the common deployment cases the that there are two modes that the leaf to leaf connection can be used in we really only want if you only want to use the leaf to leaf connection for local traffic then the leaf node will set the overload bit in its LSP which tells the spy known do not use me for transit to any of my other neighbors and in particular the other my leaf neighbor if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "you want to allow transit traffic in the case where let\u0027s say I\u0027m the leaf node I got isolated from all of the other spine nodes so the only way now for spine node to get traffic delivered to me is to go through another leaf node so in this case you don\u0027t want the over a little bit to be set but you want this to be used as the link of last resort so you set the hi metric we\u0027re recommending max metric - 2 and this makes this the link of last resort I think that\u0027s it or yeah so that\u0027s the update and we welcome comments so I think that the earlier issue I had to look it was almost two years ago it was like if you had you would like defaulting over to the leaf but then you could have a better metric backer it was something weird like that I guess yeah I considered that I\u0027d have to go back to the Russians but I think I don\u0027t think we ever talked about setting the overload bit before I think that addresses that problem in it and so the over this would be for both leaves so everything would be configured in the same mode correct yeah so what what what I I guess I I missed it that there was this biggest thing update I haven\u0027t read the update sorry so the overload bit when a leaf gets isolated the other leaf would have to reach the leaf that still connected would have to reset over a little bit yeah this is not meant to be a dynamic setting this is like how do I want to use this link if I only want to use it for local traffic then I set the overload bit if I want to use this as link of last resort in case isolated okay okay oh but you oh I see I see I understand now I thought this was it would change okay makes more sense sounds ooh how many have read the update about know about or I advise everybody to to read it this this has got a little more complex than it was but not too much more but I\u0027d advise everybody including myself to read it yeah I mean if you it\u0027s always fun to find loops right so they might be hiding here still the go go okay bounty what one reason we adopted this is because it seemed like a limit it seemed to address data centers and it was a lot simpler than a generic flooding we said "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "okay we can we can we can do this and we can do something more more generic so I\u0027m hoping it\u0027s not getting too complex SID when she cleared up the thing of the leaf leak being a static configuration makes it thanks okay this draft was introduced in Bangkok and I\u0027ll just be reporting on the updates I think they from the biggest news or most welcome change for me is we got some additional authors next slide so what were the the motivation for this largely had to do with we\u0027ve seen in the field some interoperability issues in how implementations handle tlvs which are on either unrecognized or disallowed or incorrectly formatted when we had inconsistent behavior where osp\u0027s some implementations would discard LS B\u0027s some little implications wouldn\u0027t and you end up with link state databases that are inconsistent on routers in the network which really leaves the network in a broken state there\u0027s been enhancements a few years ago in terms of how purges are handled and these have backwards compatibility issues and that played into some of the stars we\u0027ve seen in the field as well as far as interoperability problems so those were the major motivations next slide okay what\u0027s changed again additional authors have been added in the course of reviewing the draft with the new authors we discovered and I in a registry issue so we\u0027re addressing that and we\u0027ve added a recommendation about controlling behaviors that are not backwards compatible next slide so the registry issue RFC 62-38 sis purge origination TLV so that you could identify the source of a purge which is a very important thing to be able to do in troubleshooting some problems in networks the text in the draft was absolutely correct it said this TLV should be found in all bridges and must not be sent in an LS be basically a non purged LSP an LSP with a nonzero remaining lifetime unfortunately the Ino section and this got put into the actual INR registry the the flag for the LSP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "that is the non Burke\u0027s Dallas piece got set to yes and it should have been no so we\u0027re correcting that so again the text in the RFC was absolutely correct it\u0027s just the the setting of the flag in the registry was not next slide there was also discussion we thought it would be prudent to recommend that when you have transitions to new behaviors that are not backwards compatible that we recommend that implementations put some control zone as to when to enable that one example not the only example but one example of that has to do with the the introduction of the purge origination TLV if you look at the cryptographic authentication as defined in fifty three or four and 5310 it was very strict it said the only TLV you can have an approach if you have cryptographic cryptographic authentication is the authentication TLV when we introduced Pio I that obviously meant there was at least one additional T viii that could legitimately be found in a purge so implementations which are following 5304 strictly as they should would then reject purge that had a Pio I so you need to be careful as to when you enable this behavior if you have cryptographic that is the use of the purge TLV in the presence of cryptographic authentication so what we\u0027ve added to the drafts is just the recommendation that says in such cases it\u0027s prudent for implementations to provide controls for when to enable this next slide so I have to say that this has been amazingly enough and quite surprising to me this has been the most popular draft I\u0027ve ever written whatever that says so we\u0027ve gotten a lot of support from this there\u0027s also those we published yesterday we actually published a update to this based on the comments we have received from Bruno it\u0027s mostly using more clear language no real edition in terms of the substance of the draft but hopefully it\u0027s it\u0027s more clear so we think this is ready for working group adoption does anybody in the room disagree with that yes okay thanks I mean we\u0027ll ask on the list if anybody objects as well but have an obviously Peter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:49",
    "text": "okay so I\u0027m beer from Cisco so I\u0027m going to just give a quick update on the SRB 6i sigh this extension draft so we just added a single new flag in the locator TOB which basically indicates that the locator is users at any cost one one reason to do this because there are applications where you don\u0027t want to use these seats from the locator which isn\u0027t any cost one for example for a PA or favor you really want to enforce the traffic over a certain note so that\u0027s the use case that\u0027s the B to be added thanks fine and we also updated the table in the draft which reference to the supported end point behaviors which are advertised by esaias it might choose the latest network programming draft and it also includes the endpoint behavior identifier it\u0027s just for clarity so you don\u0027t need to go and look in other drafts would be what the identifiers are so other than that the the draft is stable there are implementations you can go to next slide please there are multiple implementations available even working together so I think this draft is ready for the working group adoption if there are any questions please feel free yeah like I just Alaska how many people have read the draft how many people were sort of following the spring network programming that that adoptions about halfway through there\u0027s some there\u0027s a lot of support in some discussion about other issues but I think we\u0027re going to ask for an adoption call on this one especially if it if the immediately after the network programming is adopted in spring we were sort of waiting for it they asked for adoption last in a Bangkok but we were we delayed until the net at least the network programming call for adoption okay okay so the next one is the OSP v3 extension for for beer next slide so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:53",
    "text": "have RFC eight four four four which describes the OSP v2 extension for beer with an TLS encapsulation we need the same work to be done in OSP v3 so this is the draft that deals with that the flooding scope and all the machinery in a protocol is exactly the same as in the RFC eight four four four so next slide please so just to recap what so what we define we defined the beer sub theory which is carried within the prefix so it uses the new II inter and inter area prefix OS ice to distribute the beer specific information I mean the fields in the inner circle we are exactly the same I\u0027m not going to repeat them as India\u0027s PB two extension this is a sub theory of the beer the beer TLV which carries the MPLS specific information for beer so again I mean the fields in the in the sub TLB match is the one in your spirit too so this has been presented in the beer working group I think they\u0027re going to own the document if I\u0027m not mistaken so the reduction in request is basically going to be a I\u0027m presenting here because it\u0027s an extension to the ITP so if you guys have any concerns just let me know and we can work it out so when we chartered beer they wanted to go on a fast track and on all the documents and we agreed that they could own these these sauce extensions in beer so it makes sense since since OSPF and v2 and is is are in beer it makes sense for this one to go there as well especially since this is just using the extended LS ace the reason we didn\u0027t do OSPF v3 before was because the extended lsas hadn\u0027t been published yet now that it\u0027s published implementations for going forward and and finishing that work that\u0027s correct so I I mean it\u0027d be nice if I mean it\u0027d be good especially if oh s PF implementers and people who debug and deploy OSPF b3 networks would review this mr. Michael S Gilbert so I\u0027m just asking does that mean there really is no working group adoption request here no it\u0027s in a in a bi working group that\u0027s correct obviously by an attack yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:07",
    "text": "okay so the last one is the extension for OSPF to advertise the admin tax so it\u0027s not working anymore okay all right so a little bit of a history in Nice BF v2 and v3 we had a way to send attack the admin tag with the prefix but this was only limited to certain prefixes namely the external and NSSA prefixes we didn\u0027t have a way to advertise admin tag with into our inter area prefix and we were also limited to a single one every fix I mean we all know we have different use cases for tags we use them for a distribution for a prefix prioritization and various use cases for this so what we actually are proposing is that we are adding new tag sub TLB for either the extended prefix TLB in OS p p2 or and into our inter area or external the prefix GL is in in the extended OS baby\u0027s real essays what we also added is the tags for the links and whether there is something that we want to do is up to the discussion because we have the si oh geez where we can actually advertise similar 32-bit values for each link it\u0027s up to the working group to decide whether we want to do it for prefix for links as well but the draft itself proposes the extension to be able to associate the admin tag which the prefix or link okay all right so I mean the deal is pretty simple it\u0027s a bunch of 32-bit administered attacks in a sub theory so it\u0027s very simple we\u0027ve seen this before so the draft also says about what how we are going to propagate the admin tags between the between the areas and during the translation it also says how to behave during the summarization where we are not going to advertise the tags of the component routes go to the next place and it also says that if you have a tag associated with the external or an SSA LSA in the you know old-fashioned way we prefer that because we want to be backward compatible and it also goes into the discussion that there can be multiple tags associated now is the prefix etc so what what the behavior what oil behaviors that we can use so I mean natural this is a very simple and natural extension we want to have the possibility it\u0027s mainly I mean the way I look at it is for the entire inter area prefixes to be able to tag them and you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:07",
    "text": "know use this I mean we have the similar capability nice eyes so I guess it makes a lot of sense to to adaptation and move forward what\u0027s Ginsburg um I\u0027ll ask a loaded question here and we made a conscious decision not to support 64-bit tags I put it in the appendix appendix of it because the I found no implementation of 64 bit pegs in eius eius I asked I asked a lot of people and nobody knew why yeah I\u0027m complete agreement with that I just wanted to verify that we\u0027ve consciously made that decision Stephanie Costa for orange you were talking about adding tags to links what was the use case you were targeting to that you pointed s energy but we have also admin hooks which could be we didn\u0027t have any particular use case we just thought you know if we are adding this whether it makes sense again I don\u0027t have a strong opinion we put it there we can remove it people think there\u0027s no use case for it I don\u0027t really know yeah I think we have sufficient mechanism today to tag links fair enough as a co-author I would agree as well this was I did this draft a long time ago there was no burning requirement for it and we had full working group agendas and things that we needed to get in front of the working groups so we kind of delayed it we had to session said okay we now\u0027s the time it so there\u0027s nothing too contentious until tomorrow and so we put that we put it on the agenda we said okay let\u0027s try and socialize it but I agree now now we did so we had not just with this this this predated our whole discussion of attributes okay okay okay that\u0027s the link tag I think I think I think we can take it out I think it\u0027s captain as he\u0027s known as in the IDR working group hopefully I won\u0027t get in trouble for that hi Kate ontological Cisco so this is an update on the OSPF reverse metric draft just a recap it was presented in London it was just named differently back then and we have equivalent "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:09",
    "text": "functionality in is is already there also we also have a SP of two part metric draft which covers kind of similar capable or at least can be used for this use cases for broadcast LAN so what is draft essentially does is brings this capability for you know point-to-point links and other types reminder on water draft is it enables OSPF router and septa cable for both v2 and v3 to signal to its neighbor the reverse matrix so it\u0027s a metric that a neighbor should use towards the link to this router and this is done in a link-local signaling mechanism using the LLS block in hello messages when the neighbor receives in this case r2 receives the reverse matrix signaling then it may use that value or it\u0027s a we have support for offset as well as value in its router a let us say towards r1 so this mechanism is link-local so it works it\u0027s really between routers on a link and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of transparent to other routers in the network so for this we have introduced the reverse metric DL reverse metric TLV what\u0027s the new update in this draft is we have also included the reverse key metric TLV because this was something that was not covered and there was no support for I mean we had missed multi topology ID which was not there in the previous version so that\u0027s the other update that\u0027s you know been introduced apart from that there is really no significant change in the document except for some editorial updates you know which was pointed by reviews and so on so thing so look for working group adoption of this draft at this point nobody yeah how many have read the draft yeah about yeah don\u0027t count of you you have yeah we\u0027ll take well we\u0027ll discuss it a little bit on the list the use cases I know one of the use cases is the same use case that the large packets are in VF d l2 VPN where that you know where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:12",
    "text": "you\u0027re you don\u0027t know the characteristics of the underlying l2 yes yes yes that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s one of the use cases and that\u0027s the same yeah same motivation so does anybody object to possibly taking those Ana\u0027s work no there was nobody so this this one is OSPF introducing PFD strictmode just had a presentation of this earlier today in the PFD working group and this is something that we have in multiple implementations already so we are what we are trying to bring out here is to define it more formally let us say and to see how it helps in you know some of the Interop issues and concentration so the problem statement here is that PFD is being used by OSPF for detecting faults in the forwarding plane and primarily detecting it fast and bringing down the adjacency however a PFD router does not know as part of its signaling whether its neighbor has support for PFD and as a result of this the BFD OSPF adjacency is brought up without you know considering the weather the BFD session is brought up or not I mean it\u0027s brought up independently now in some scenarios we have seen or observed issues where the SPF adjacency may come up but the PFD may not come up even though PFD is enable on both sides of the link and this could be because of some problem in the underlying path now this you know could be for written various reasons including transport lossy links you know degraded links so on so forth and what this results in is even though the OSP of adjacency may come up and we advertise it in routing the traffic overhead would you know get affected as well as in case of lossy links you know you may suddenly find sometimes OSPF adjacency is also flapping so it\u0027s a term that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:13",
    "text": "introduced in the network so what the draft proposes is really to enable OSPF router to signal to its neighbor that you know it\u0027s AIT\u0027s running BFD and be that it does not want to bring up the OSPF adjacency unless the PFD session is up between them so which means that the BFD has verified the bi-directional connectivity and only post that we try to bring up the OSPF adjacency and this is what we are referring to as PFD strictmode in this document so this there is a similar extension in ISS 6213 and it\u0027s kind of similar functionality that we are proving so how are we doing it we have in the OSPF hello messages we have the limp local signaling block and in there we have a TLB where which allows it\u0027s called LS extended option and fields flags field which allows routers on the link to indicate capability to each other and where we\u0027ve introduced a B bit there and this B bit indicates you know supports or capability or let\u0027s say interest to operate in bf District mode now the PFD session establishment when when the routers two routers detect each other they are supporting this bf district more then as soon as a new neighbor is detected PFD session is requested immediately and the keychain key thing is there is some we\u0027re trying to clarify in how to do this in the fitted into the OSPF neighbor as possum and the proposal is that the neighbor is held in the init state until the BFD session is up between them what that also means is that we do not the router does not include the neighbor IP address in its own hello until the BRP session is that this is essentially will block the adjacency of the neighbors FSM to move into you know to where next art so moment of BFD session is up include the hello neighbor address in the hello and then the FSM proceeds as exists today so there is no change after that from backward compatibility aspects this mode is going to get employed or come into action only when the two neighbors agree or you know exchange this capability and this is only I mean if it\u0027s not there than though SP of neighbor FSM goes like like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:16",
    "text": "existent today and the change only changes in this initial bring up so it\u0027s basically the transition from init state onwards the rest of the neighbor of SM is not is unchanged there is also no change in the way BFD is used to you know bring down an OSP of adjacency handing of bfk down events all of that no nothing is changed from that perspective so a little more details on the bf be part so this is again only changing only changes are in the initial bring up there\u0027s also more details and text in the draft we try to cover scenarios where this capability or this option is turned on for an adjacency which is already up and there the proposal is that we do not disturb and adjacency thats already up it just continues and you know removal of BFD or the PRB strictmode also does not disrupt adjacency that\u0027s already up so next steps we are aware that multiple implementations have this kind of a feature support already and it\u0027s the way it\u0027s been done is the kind of explicit configuration support but we\u0027ve had some cases within drop it\u0027s not really clear at what state in the neighbor of SM let\u0027s say implementation should all the neighbor and how it should go about it so it also makes troubleshooting difficult in that aspect so we are looking to trying to see a working group was interested in standardizing this and would appreciate feedback you know and commit so you found incompatibilities out there with which I understand that there is no standard yes so I mean the key aspect of improv issues is where the neighbor FSM is held by an implementation until the B of T is brought up is it actually functional so that two parts of it one is that we don\u0027t know whether the neighbor is strict mode enable so the first way to get working between let\u0027s say to implementation is that both have this explicit configuration and then you know they bring it up now in a case like a LAN for example where there are you know you may want to do it with between two routers but not with the third one is not capable that\u0027s a provisioning aspect then within the bring up as well when the BFD session is every session cannot be brought up due to some errors or whatever we see the neighbor FSMs we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:17",
    "text": "do not even see a neighbor let\u0027s say on one router and we see it on a unit or a two-way state or something it becomes difficult to figure out what\u0027s happening or where this is that so I guess where I was going with this is it I mean it\u0027s interesting you\u0027ve already discovered this do you cover these cases like it might be interesting for an appendix or you know for deployment right like if this is deployed this is how well interact with these various you know non the interoperating and then these are the results that we currently have with these you know non-specified non interoperating things it\u0027s not there in the draft but what provided some Texas to describe an operation in kind of like operational consideration what all information should be shown or how what logs install should be done to reflect the state and you know if the neighbor is not going beyond in it why is it not going yeah I mean no such thing is it\u0027s interesting it would probably be interesting to list the Interop issues you\u0027ve found that you\u0027ll be fixing sure I mean it doesn\u0027t have a very extensive okay and I mean many look forward to inputs from other implementation not sure if there are implementations which are doing this differently but we would like to get feedback on that so let me understand it so if you get a hello and it doesn\u0027t have the strict bit set you just don\u0027t use PFD as a precondition and just yes\u0027m it and just goes okay and then if the bit flips anytime once the session is is passed Annette you just ignore it you just keep point yes okay I mean that\u0027s kind of a subtle that naturally falls out nice and the implementation that\u0027s where it would be really nice to talk to some other you know get some emitters that want to do this to collaborate and make sure yes yes so definitely need no feedback and inputs there okay thanks we moe Hisoka we don\u0027t know if it\u0027s gonna work we have to see we don\u0027t I don\u0027t know why good yeah okay it works so on one more from following today I\u0027m going to talk about this issue beautiful at introduction "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:17",
    "text": "basically I just talked about the updates in this version so in this version we remove centralize the fatality reduction and then we also updated distributed faladi reduction to get instructions from the leaders because of this remove and then we added a scheduler and consistence check so firstly we talked about the scheduling so scheduling for flooding topology computation so there\u0027s a new RFC talking about a skill for talking about a scheduling for SPF so right now for some network we have multiple schedulers I mean yeah Nodoka normally we have our routers from multiple vendors so the wrong hood from one vendor may use a one type of scheduling for SPF and some of routers from a defender will use another schedulers for SPF so the issue is that using different the schedulers for SPF we are create more routing moves than using a same scheduler so this is a toka instructor in forgive hell in this view RFC\u0027s so as we know so that the suggest the best practice is that we configure similar timers are water routers so in this case we want to have SP to be triggered at almost at the same time but sometimes is impossible so here my example is that for consecutive SPF executions if we have two different schedulers that is almost impossible to have SPF on water knows to be triggered at the same time so here we just have two two examples have two schedulers so once the gradual is that we just the schedule SPF in constant delays for example first SPF delay 200 seconds 200 meter second and then second consecutive race 200 milliseconds and then serve and so on so this is a constant delays so another circuit law is that we have initial delay for the first one and then for the consecutive rain and then we use a whole whole lot of time for example is maybe 100 milliseconds and then the next one the whole time will be double the first of the whole and therefore we have an I\u0027m just a latter run and then the delay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:17",
    "text": "time will be double the first of the delay so if we have these two kind of schedulers so is it almost impossible to configure one over time to have those SPF to be triggered at the same time so the this new RFC in fact that we have was used same circuit less but the reality is that for those schedule it for SPF we already implement so we we have no way to at least no way to do that right now but for secure him for a lot in towards computation so right now we have a is a good point we could is right for and we needed to have use the same schedulers for scheduling the flooding topology computations we were yes I might be in a menorah I don\u0027t agree that you can prepare FTC and SPF I don\u0027t think they\u0027re the same thing I mean I don\u0027t think they require FTC requires a scheduler or like some ask as because you don\u0027t update ribs and fibs and yeah it\u0027s all internal to the protocol and it can be done very quick I don\u0027t but yeah it\u0027s a good question I sing about that a lot because if we use different schedulers so the flow I don\u0027t I won\u0027t do it different right something you need a scheduler for this you don\u0027t with me let\u0027s do it possible yeah that\u0027s another way I think I may be the batter I have a scheduler and there was a control because we can control the timer Paula get faster can i it\u0027s better from Cisco I completely agree with I see you don\u0027t need any scheduler here yeah because I use the batter to have a scheduler at least because if we have a consecutive of computations and then they may have some issues yeah so with a scheduler and then we can have control so you would control you can compute those time if we\u0027re smaller and then looks like is a we can cheat with that one right first ask so since the cane has been opened I don\u0027t like this either but my dislike of this is we\u0027ve been able I know there\u0027s an RFC there but we\u0027ve been doing is eyes for a really long time without standardizing and unwire POVs to specify one timer should fire this is this seems like a big overreach and it just doesn\u0027t need to be specified I there\u0027s other things that I like in this trap wow this is not one that says a working person so another I saw because we right now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:20",
    "text": "this transfer is focused on YouTube the flight interaction so for this to be the final action we need a get instructions from the error leaders so we need a so after operator configure the distributive flatten reduction then Evernote master receive the leader staff at LV so in this leaders at supper TV we\u0027re happy indication which algorithm we have used and also should be indication of what distributed mode and then so we also should have received those kind of parameters for the schedulers evil those configuration is done on the leader so the last one is a about a lot in poverty consistencies check so so for a lot in her body because flat entomology is computed by Evernote so one flight already computed by one node so must be is the same as the one computed by a master node so if were to fall out in trouble yet different and then the inconsistency occurs so we need to have some way to detect this consistency and handle it accordingly so those so here we just proposed a very simple way we just define new beat in the hollow extend the hollow we caught a flattened hopper a bit or a link so for each end of the mink each load each internal order of link so when that this node have a line table change we can talk this link we just change that a pata Pete so if two people are the same and then regarding to this link the following property is consistent if they are different and then we force for given time people in the for keep in high and then we think that this a polite ontology is not consistent regarding to this link so we can warning and then on the other side to side maybe if one side the thing is not not on the kavagi maybe we just temporarily assume that were under an apology that\u0027s the I think that\u0027s or um maybe yeah I could provide some color and that I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m sue hairs most people know me as a IDR chair that\u0027s not what I\u0027m proposing right now but that\u0027ll give you a place to find my email so two things on this one just to provide some color in in some research I\u0027ve done on why this problem might be useful one of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:22",
    "text": "the deployments for IDPs is in IP ran technology some of the IP ran technology has been sold places and I don\u0027t want to be pejorative because sometimes the for any particular place in the world sometimes the US has brownouts and so as they have brownouts some of the links transceivers get drowned out unexpectedly and so I don\u0027t know if this is going to help that I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s going to hurt but it is a problem that you know the research shows if you\u0027re working on convergence and you don\u0027t know if if things are working right you make the IGP signal something more to say that I\u0027ve got the right to apology or warn you and that that may help you in the cases where the the link connectivity you may try be a fee you know Kate I\u0027m sorry Kate on for my mispronunciations has this other BFD I\u0027m just I\u0027m trying to give color and why some of these problems are are important based on some research I was asked to do into some customer problems that that\u0027s comment one I hope that may help at least that\u0027s why I understand the need for some of the last couple presentations because it matches some of the problems that I\u0027ve were reported and I was asked to look at a GP convergence simulations based on the long term work that Angus lose enough and other people have done in a GP convergence and how to look at it in simulations I suspect Tony simulation has that anyway just a side comment I hope you don\u0027t mind me making that comment where it might be a boat window I think everyone\u0027s in violent agreement with about this yeah you don\u0027t have any arguments okay that\u0027s great and what\u0027s the one thing we\u0027d ask does your least what you looked into for this topology does it support the mechanisms in this draft the scheduler and no no mine is strictly into the problem the the draft that I put out is strictly the problem because I wanted to III the first thing was do the problem I don\u0027t know if way most simulation has gone into this with that thing I I won\u0027t comment there are two groups doing research in different solutions so you may ask way mo and some of his team on that question rather than me I my first was to do a purely theoretical and then look at some improvements and and do some simulation based on aggregation so I\u0027ll point back to way mo and other places that that\u0027s just dodging because I didn\u0027t do that particular work does that it then I was I clear enough and my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:23",
    "text": "caveat to say the theoretical points that it would that that if you don\u0027t have consistency but that\u0027s that\u0027s a general no well known problem back to 2000 or 1995 because we used to have early days of internet we used to have the same problem 1997 we had blackout half half done links people our Father second question is for ACI if I\u0027ve ended this topic okay so most open-source implementations that I\u0027ve worked with and I\u0027ll just say open source and other code bases I\u0027ve worked with whether you have a scheduler or not your code when you look at it has an inherent ratio of scheduling for sending out is is when you said I don\u0027t think there should be a scheduler did you really mean yeah did you really could you give a little color on that because that doesn\u0027t really fit again the theoretical work from the stuff for it yeah they always assume you have some sort of range well he\u0027s talking about the distributed algorithm right so that would imply I think the best schedule there is no schedule err at all that\u0027s my opinion for that because I think I think I think that that is a very simple computation and the the problem you really have is the one that Tony was talking about right with what what you do in the transition periods whether you do a lot or you try and do just the union of the old and the new and do a little those are those are that\u0027s more it isn\u0027t issue us that than the scheduling yeah it is it is in the transition but the self synchronicity and jitter we once had was to deal with the fact that if you have no scheduler you can get into this synchronicity problem so maybe I think maybe sue you because AC said none my I was saying something different than yes yes like what I was saying was I don\u0027t think this should be standardized I\u0027m not saying listen if you want to put scheduling in I mean and we\u0027ve got Dec it decades of experience right I mean we have we know how to we have ideas about back off timers and and it\u0027s worked just fine for decades for that not to be standardized right it\u0027s not that I\u0027m I\u0027m not saying you know if your implementation needs based on you know I mean this is an implementation thing right like if if it has a if it\u0027s cooperatively multitasks or who knows what right like you you might have a better timer set up for for that particular thing to get the the behavior that you\u0027re looking for that I think you\u0027re alright but I shouldn\u0027t be on the wire okay this is not on a wire it\u0027s just for so we assume each note or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:23",
    "text": "Evernote use the same schedule that there\u0027s no Wi-Fi but if you\u0027re standardizing what to use it\u0027s on the wire yeah this one just the option this one lv lv is option that\u0027s on the wire I don\u0027t I don\u0027t want to take too much of the working time but one of the reason we early on put and I\u0027m sure the the experts like listen you put jitter and this stuff is to get rid of cell synchronicity and we\u0027re back into redoing some of the algorithm and you know I\u0027m not seeing the same topic we reiterating and I\u0027m just wondering why about for for Tony\u0027s algorithm if if there\u0027s a you know are we gonna get into the big Q calculation sending out big bursts of stuff or do we just not have the problem because our interfaces are so faster I think this is an interesting thing to talk about right i mean we are under we\u0027re working on it right and i think it\u0027s interesting to talk about you know when links are added when they\u0027re not added and all of this right but I just when you actually calculate a flooding topology could be a part of that discussion I just don\u0027t see why we have to I mean if we want to be agile right you don\u0027t want to be specifying this stuff right I mean Island wire protocol it would be lovely if we didn\u0027t have to specify anything and then less is more in in much of the thing I think the questions again the questions behind some of these desires are what I\u0027d like to see us discuss in a revised thing because we had the problem in the past we had the problem self synchronous so as we change these floodings are we going to get into the same problem how are we going to handle you know most of the if our art is only you if you talk to Lee and there are people but you guys are wanting to do with some of this as well they only take care single link failure tomorrow I\u0027ll show you where we have multiple in failures that are rolling blackouts so just just a call based on some of what he\u0027s doing toward the problem behind it so I would like to request for options for this one because for distributor faladi reduction and then we have discussing a modest for a long time and so I have a chair comment um you know we had a lot of back-and-forth and we were trying to figure out where things are going and how to move forward and perhaps something I think maybe got lost along the way this my expectation from the outcome of all of our discussions was that this was going to be primarily your draft was primarily going to be a specification of a standardized distributed algorithm and what this looks that\u0027s now in its in your appendix of your document it\u0027s not normative and that this instead is talking more about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:25",
    "text": "I think kind of a generic flooding thing right I mean a generic dynamic floating thing for example I actually I like your FT bits so if you want to go that there\u0027s also think so this is this is calling out you know possible miss configurations or problems in the network this is very valuable information for an operator okay but this is work I think that you should be working with you know on our now working group adopted document right I mean this should go into the generic signaling signaling that something is broken is a generally useful thing right so don\u0027t you think that this should go in the in the dynamic flooding no this is is specific to distribute to your distributed algorithm yeah that\u0027s good question because of what distributed algorithm Evernote will compute a lot in topology right no I your distributed algorithm that\u0027s generally because the the working group document that we adopted right covers is about signaling either a centralized flooding topology or it\u0027s also for signaling the area leader and the distribute algorithm number that is the generic document that we\u0027re going to use right yeah that\u0027s what this was supposed to be about a concrete distributed algorithm right if we\u0027re gonna be monitoring this in other words this is the wrong place or this is what I think I\u0027m trying to say because we don\u0027t we don\u0027t want it\u0027s a working group document now but Tony\u0027s draft that we had dropped adopted right is is the framework upon which centralized and distributed is built on right going forward we have distributed algorithms need to be standardized centralized owns so that\u0027s that branch is done but we still have to work on distributed algorithms that\u0027s where the I think that\u0027s what I thought was gonna come out of your revised draft and and things like recognizing that things are broken should I think be a more generally so it\u0027s a generally useful thing right why should it just be your algorithm of benefits yeah that\u0027s good question so I wanna clarify this one so you mention that is stupid one so will receive the instructions from the leaders so I already described here so every node will master receive instructions from the leader indicated so there could be broke me I mean you don\u0027t expect it to be broken in either the centralized distributor its distributed no case that\u0027s why this is good to determine in either case you know because if somebody could have trouble they could not be receiving and installing that in some situations and and installing the the centralized topology correctly I mean it just just like the distributed could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:25",
    "text": "could not work I mean both could not work you don\u0027t you you expect it to work all the time and that\u0027s why I think generally applicable I know I think needs more more cases of artistry what kind of this case and then you wonder generalize and how either did you realize oh I got an idea but is most this is supposed to be about an augur you\u0027re not supposed to be we want the draft we adopted to talk about centralized and distributed right we don\u0027t want to we don\u0027t want I think that there was definitely this and maybe my fault and I will take this because I think I was originally talking about moving distributed out of the thing and that was not where we landed right where we landed was we have a general framework document with sig how to signal the information and then we were going to have distributed algorithms that were standardized outside of that and I think when at first when we were first talking about it on the mailing list it was being called the centralized draft and the distributed draft and that\u0027s why I think the confusion is but that\u0027s not where we ended up right because because the work we adopted up front in order to move forward covers both cases right say covers signaling first centralized and distributed so things like this like the FT bit not this one with the FT bit I mean this is this is generally useful it should just go into the working groups document that covers centralizing and distributed signaling right because this is signaling in a generic way about distributed out distributed flooded right yeah this is a because of using the email you just ask her we removed a centralized one at either remove the centralized one I think we should have a distributor of flagging relations because what is tribulus forgotten reduction okay with the process and I mean we we want one document right we don\u0027t we\u0027re it\u0027s not it\u0027s not Tony\u0027s document anymore it\u0027s not anybody\u0027s document it\u0027s LS are working group document now right everybody gets credit who works on it let\u0027s get past that right let\u0027s just get work done and you know and everyone should get credit for the work they do and so that\u0027s not that should not be an issue right but we don\u0027t why would we have two documents saying that anyway I thought we\u0027d all agreed to it it sounds like there\u0027s still some confusion maybe we can talk about it offline and also I think therefore that is Jupiter 1 there are some lists of a CBOC example are we for this Rubin one we need a scheduler for exam or for Evernote we\u0027ll use same schedule our buddy have agreement on that and that should be discussed on the mailing list and if for some reason you\u0027re able to convince everyone that we should have a scheduler it should go in the working group document we\u0027ve already adopted is it\u0027s a generic thing unless it pertains if for some reason the algorithm you come up with that you want to standardize no no where\u0027s this scheduler in particular then it might be appropriate to go in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:25",
    "text": "that specific draft right these are the DISA gradual is just we just maybe use adjust but Evernote I agree and then use the same schedule as the same because it\u0027s scheduled already well if you think it\u0027s generally applicable to all all distributed solutions and it should be going into our generic signaling document all right I mean not into a separate one unless you\u0027re just proposing as a way to talk about it before we merge it in but you know again I thought you were doing and distributed algorithm hello and I\u0027m from from Canada comma you know I have also parties Casa really at least for the TV remote and the centralized mode and I know I I think I think the start point and the folks point of the counter working dropped either for the centralized signalized mode but in general deployment I think the teachable monetary is more prefer and you know so there are overlap for these two documents and after discussing how separated separated and currently hermit charger provides some issue for especially for the mundo he\u0027s super the most forged on what the f key beta I think they did unfair to put his solution or is the is easier into account mode so I mean do you say unfair yeah you know we\u0027re not talking fairness this is standard right I got that I know I know we are doing uh ideal señor about the force that no standard yeah I think the way so the provide some different solution the first thing is centralized honorees that he secures Rosa yeah we all agree that the distributed is is one of the things we\u0027re now Larry and you know all the easier the solution are coming first the problem or after not a problem of the Pawnee stopped it doesn\u0027t that doesn\u0027t matter we separate we\u0027re separating the two things it\u0027s not about the velocity right it\u0027s we have a framework for signaling which is not about the algorithms there\u0027s no algorithm specifying that document on purpose because we want to divorce those two things we have signaling which is easy it\u0027s easy to figure that out it\u0027s hard to figure the algorithms out that\u0027s where the work is that\u0027s where the hook if that\u0027s where the fame is if it\u0027s very nice come up with a great algorithm right but the signaling is boring work we need to get out of the way so we can work on the hard problems I think the single union but they can\u0027t be and and separated very clearly so you know I think we we should the survey that document so your opinion is we should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:25",
    "text": "separate the signaling for distributed and centralized as area there is no overlap for some you know for FB people why you by the way you\u0027re going against the rough consensus of working prepare the rough concerns of the working group is that it\u0027s it should be combined into a single document we adopted it on that so we\u0027re probably not going to go back but you know go back I think of a ways to the go-go to achievement a solution now there are you know kind of the folks point that you the kind of working group working document either for the personal item or the vo froggie in the final tab Freudian flabby in the final project you know this is I think I need a better understand I don\u0027t understand what your objection is this is just how we do work in the idea if we adopt a document we all work on it people nobody\u0027s not going to get credit for the work they do we do discuss technical solutions we discussed the problems we discuss solutions and we pick the best we try to pick the best technical solution for the problems that are there right I mean if we need schizo if we need to have tea bit we need to have to keep it if we need a scheduler we need to schedule the TLB none of that nobody\u0027s saying no to any of this stuff but I\u0027m just saying it\u0027s in the wrong place here right because we already have a document for signaling yes I gave her more details I think in your request option in your statement is that Tony\u0027s a draft we\u0027re focused on the centralized centralized I said that was a mistake I said I made a mistake when I initially said that and and that wasn\u0027t what we agreed to at the end of the process that\u0027s not where we landed I think about need to take that you know somewhere else right because it\u0027s pretty clear from the email Tony had sent a mail at some point saying I think we\u0027re looking at this wrong and and I said yes you\u0027re right we are looking at this wrong and everyone agreed to that at least most people agree to it I\u0027m not gonna say everyone right but Tony Tony reframed it as where this one is about signaling and the other ones are about algorithms and that was a much more useful way to look at things and and we have tons of agreement on that so yes if you know I miss I misspoke originally and I\u0027ll take that doesn\u0027t we\u0027re allowed to make mistakes right she has a patent on good because it because the offering is based on that your statement and then ponies like one one you just asked me to remove the central centralizer one and then I\u0027ve you know it doesn\u0027t matter we\u0027re the working you cares and we follow the instructions and we move the second one and then just the fact that this one to to the new instructions right so you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:25",
    "text": "not happy I understand but but what we need to do is we come out of this working so happy isn\u0027t not award for describe of my feeling you see so these are just my feeling so they say that a big baby we have a guru people working a very hoc by the way and now we\u0027re in an hour back to credit and I said there\u0027s no issue with credit anything any work people do is not going to be hidden somewhere right if your work is adopted by the working group and we standardize it of course your name\u0027s gonna be on it like that why this is not something we need to discuss if you if some of your work shows up in a document without your name on it then I think you have something to complain about that hasn\u0027t happened yet has it yet there\u0027s no more cases there\u0027s one guy in the middle you said so after one program is about it is even harder though people put a new idea in that document that\u0027s a normal case right yeah what you\u0027re saying is that you think it\u0027s gonna be too hard to get any new work into the working group document that we adopted yes actually this is not ILS our stuff this is ietf process stuff so why don\u0027t we go offline we can talk to the Hades to I think we\u0027re in a circular a circular discussion here too on this so so I think we need to take that part of it offline are these technical comments everybody\u0027s got not processed yes okay les Ginsburg so full disclosure I\u0027m a co-author on the draft that was adopted but the comment I would make in regards to the EFT bit without commenting whether it\u0027s a good idea or a bad idea but operationally it overlaps with the definition of how we signal temporary flooding and so if we if we\u0027re going to decide that this is a good idea I think we have to take those two mechanisms and decide how to signal it and get both out of it if that\u0027s what we think is the best solution which is why it needs to be in the same document yeah I think these are different from those kind of requests a bit so request three the means that we send a request to the remote site and then we requires a decent thing to add a temporary ID a flattened topology these are unjust I computer phalloidin Papaji Ricardo dis link this link is on the fly on the falada ontology so just that this is a 44 cents Tony Lee Arista so the way we make progress in the ITF is we make proposals if you want to move forward with this the right thing to do is to send mail to the mailing list proposing your idea we then discuss it on the mailing list if we agree we then incorporated into the document I have no objections to your idea let\u0027s talk about okay that\u0027s enough yeah regarding to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:30",
    "text": "discussion I think when when the proposal those Libre document I say someone I remember the Dropbox for positive as well as a year at the centralized one sinner single Authority should want it Sudan can do it this revision by themself right you\u0027re right maybe it\u0027d be time to take this offline and talk to the chairs and the AAP it\u0027s just a suggestion as as a chair that this whole process anyway so we\u0027ll discuss these two mechanisms as generalized mechanisms ah I as the scheduler which I I agree that if you\u0027re going to do a scheduler you don\u0027t need to disseminate the timers unless you\u0027re doing distributed but for the FT bit we can discuss those two well discuss those two okay thank you hey we\u0027re luckily we\u0027re a little bit early but we\u0027re gonna meet again tomorrow and I would advise people to read the drafts giving priority to the two we\u0027re talking again about the two rad I mean two rather radical extension styie sighs I\u0027d recommend everybody read and the other one if you have time I\u0027d recommend you read Sue\u0027s document on the use case that\u0027s gonna be tomorrow as well the other two I got a yang model I can explain you don\u0027t really have to read I can explain it in the ten minutes I\u0027m gonna talk about it yeah well you don\u0027t have to read there\u0027s only so many hours before the next meeting anyway and and the one on the one on on te we\u0027re going to have that presented maybe have some comments but we\u0027re gonna move it to the t\u0027s working group the one on packet slicer use the segment routing because it really didn\u0027t belong here but we got the request late and I didn\u0027t really read it till the plane and I said well this doesn\u0027t belong here but it wasn\u0027t scheduled in T\u0027s we had time we\u0027re gonna leave it on that we cited leave it on the agenda it does have some minor te extensions in it but that\u0027s the small part of the graph relative to the framework that is being proposed in that one so maybe I got you curious enough to read that one as well by the way earlier you know since we\u0027ve got a little heated there if anybody if everyone would go to the ether pad that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing our minutes let\u0027s make sure we captured everyone\u0027s comments because you know it\u0027s not always easy to understand each other and you know if we put them down in the minutes maybe it\u0027ll help move that that process forward so make sure that your your comments were there and captured "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:31",
    "text": "correctly we don\u0027t want to miss anybody\u0027s opinions the discussion in the end happens too fast too quick so I only captured maybe 60% of the whole discussion so please go on the ISA pad and to you whatever you said thank seeing Zen thanks everybody see you tomorrow tomorrow tomorrow yeah if anybody hasn\u0027t signed blue sheets grab it on the way out [Music] because you know better yeah you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:31",
    "text": "what yourself exactly there are differences we find rats I don\u0027t know "
  }
]