[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign because they were proposed after the meeting started and at least I cannot see any more the battle for refreshing on the data tracker ah this is so stupid you cannot unmute why would you have a model dialogue I see them in the data tracker meeting materials yeah so if I import them they are in the decks ready to be shared no they are yeah you actually have to click them from the data tracker meeting materials to the uh decks ready to be shared yeah there I cannot see any button to force the import again I used to see it well there are two circular arrows you need to press that to refresh remember that button I cannot see it anymore now strange wow okay so the same browser"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "yeah I was in another meeting I think it was Ace where somebody didn't have the permissions you should have had yeah I was about to drag and drop the PDF uh on the upload tab but uh thanks Carson it worked okay um so can you do a screenshot of the slide manager so we can send them to of course there it is thanks Christian I haven't select the chat yet so I'll quickly get some coffee so we're starting a couple of minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:12",
    "text": "foreign just say when you think we can start I think we can start sorry first nothing and hi everyone uh welcome everyone to the interim meeting of the co-working group I'm Martha taylorman and as usual a reminder this is an officiality of meetings so not well applies uh get familiar with that if you're not already it's not just about APR it's also an especially about our code of conduct so please be nice and professional we want another uh the link to the notes uh is in the chat uh I'll try to take notes any help is appreciated thanks very much Christian and there's I guess a request for agenda bashing that we were also discussing before starting uh Uranus to leave at a half past uh so if it works especially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "for Marco uh we may want to swap the the agenda items and start with Oscar capable proxies uh does it work for you Marco yeah yeah that's all okay for me thank you that say then uh it's Richard Stern yes and I will start see here thank you hello everyone so I'd like to present some recent updates to this draft I was called capable proxies and [Music] let's take it away yeah so he has to recap what this is about it's about the fact that um you can have a core proxy between a client and server which sounds straightforward however you may want a security association between the client and proxy for instance for identifying the client and knowing that it's authorized to use this proxy and a good use case there can be to utilize oscore between the client and proxy and this can be used also like basically you can have end-to-end or score between the client and server and in addition to that you can have o score between the client and proxy or you can simplable score between the client and proxy and maybe displaying code between the client and server but the problem is that having um using old score to water proxy is not defined and admitted in all score because um you know score in the RFC only C and S are considered to be the OS core endpoints and in addition to this it's also forbidden to double protect a message so if you would like to have Oscar between client and server and client and proxy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "meaning two layers of optical protection between the client and proxy that is simply not allowed in the Oscar rxc and the work in this draft actually started as an appendix in the Groupon proxy document and it was agreed during the itf-110 meeting and also during the core interim that took place in June 2021 that it makes sense to split the work from the appendix where it was into this new separate Standalone draft and okay what about use cases and these are a number of use cases we're also covering the draft he has to go over them a bit quick the first one is that you may want to have a code group communication with proxies so basically um you have a core group and you're communicating there to a proxy and what can be important is that the proxy will want to identify the client using a secure Association so as the unicast request comes in from the client that or it can be also protected meanwhile the entire exchange end-to-end from client to servers is predicted with Grupo score another example is from the um multicast notifications draft um where you may want to have a group score different security and then you use um the client provides the proximities ticket request which is it has obtained from the server and this provisioning and you may want to protect using oscore to other use cases one is regarding lightweight M2M and it's stated in the light return to M"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "transport binding specification that you can use our score between the lightweight temtem endpoint and a non lightweight time endpoint via the light to 10 times server as you can see they're in the figure the idea is that the client can interact using all score with the electric term server but it may also want to connect to an external application server using the proxy and also in this case it's good to have always score both end term between client and server and between the client and the lightweight MTN server and such because then the lightweight content server can identify the client and it's also normal procedure within light to 10 if you're using all score that decline then the lighter term server will have on those score security Association the last use case is one that came from David Navarro where the it's also based on lightweight M2M where you use the um you have the slide to attempt them Gateway and practically in this case the right to attempting Gateway is acting as a reverse proxy and again in this case you may want to have a scoreboard between client and the Gateway acne as a proxy and entering between client and server so what is the contribution of this document uh it's a twofold update to the oscore RC and the first update being defining the use of all score in a communication like where you have a proxy and these can be both between An Origin client or server and the proxy and also between two proxies if you have multiple proxies between a client and server and basically this means that not only Origin client and servers can be also endpoints but also intermediate devices the second update then is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "to explicitly allow this nested oscore protection with return all screen or score so essentially the client will first protect using all score end-to-end client and server and then it will again protect using all score and this time between the client and proxy and normally you would have at most dual score layers and one end to end and one between each hook in the communication chain however it's possible to apply multiple more than two layers of all score and this is also something we explore in appendix B talking about this oscore protected onion forwarding and the focus on the document is about oscore but the same information and rules still applies as is to Google score so what have we done recently we presented version 4 and according to him in September last year and we also submitted version five and six around itf116 another one update we did there was two explicitly mentioned that the proxy should check whether forwarding a decrypted request is okay which also of course the intent because the intent is that the proxy should decrypt the oscore request and then use that to identify which client sent it and then understand if this is acceptable the forward or not it was yes not explicitly stated but thanks to Christian as input we have now clarified that and we've also clarified one corner case where the proxy should not forward a valid request which can for instance happen if if the request is using this system to multicast Notifications option and you can see more details in the draft I regarding that so now we have this figure here so this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "is basically a flow shot of how what steps do you take when processing an incoming request and this is of course we also have in a textual form in the document um yes that's a high level overview and you can see that you enter in this blue box and you start by checking if there are any proxy related options um and you may end up there in the bottom left acting as a reverse proxy and you you may also end up acting as a forward proxy and yeah I don't think I need to go into like tell you each step in each box but one thing to note here is this new purple arrow and that's the is forwarding this requests and authorized operation so that's the explicit check we added based on the feedback from Christian um and you can see you may end up in a 401 or you may end up in the proxy consuming the proxy related options and forwarding um you may also end up even if there are no proxy related options at all um then basically it can either have an Oscar option uh in which case you decrypt or well if it doesn't have any Oscar option you deliberate the application and the important thing is that this is like an iterative process so if you have come I guess you can't really see my mouse unfortunately but if you have come to the right hand side and you have decrypted a request you see this blue line going back to the beginning again so this is basically like for each old score layer you go through these steps and if you decrypt one layer when you come back to the blue box again and start over and eventually you will end up either giving this request to the application or it's some kind of error or if you're approxy you forward it so other recent updates we did uh we did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "some clarifications regarding um protection of Co-op options and because we have this rule set in the document describing how you should protect um how you should protect options and we weren't too explicit previously about class I or class especially as I options um so we clarify that a bit and improve those rules on when a option should be protected or not so basically the idea is that okay you have a of course if toppings Class E yes you should protect it but what if the opinions class U or I well then we have this defined rule set that will help you determine if you should protect this option um regardless if it's class U or I the intent is to protect the options as many options as possible so now we're covering Vector the class i options and some Corner cases and one good Shake there was the request hash option because that's actually the process as a class I in responses although it's expected to not be included in the responses and but you can send it on the wire so yes we basically talked about a number of options and and went through the rules to see that the rules are consistent with our intentions and the current rule formulation you can see in section three one covering three main cases and um we have multiple examples for each case and again the rationale is to encrypt as many options as possible and then we can go to this figure that actually shows the rules in a graphical way and again I don't have to go each box for you but basically the overall idea here is that okay I have an outgoing message it has a co-op option what how should I process this core option should I protect it or should I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "not protect it and then you can follow these flow short to understand whether you should or should not protect the option and again the idea is to protect it if possible but of course sometimes you can protect it for instance if it's I mean if it's needed to actually perform the decryption such as like the endoc option or the um the oscore option itself you cannot really protect that for the for the origin server although I mean the intermediate proxies may be able to protect anal score option that is actually not intended for them and this is the graphical representation we also have this in text in the draft and continuing on some other recent updates we have a section five now giving guidelines on establishing old school security contexts so I mean normally this procedure or what we're describing the draft is agnostic of how you established the your score security context you're using um but we have some guidelines still in this section so for instance if we're using old score you may want to run edoc and take advantage of edoc and first execute adequate the proxy and then with origin server so you can actually dynamically build your own score context to use with the proxy and server and we also refer to the optimize workflow and that's detailed in a separate draft where you combine Android message 3 and the first oscore protected request for group or score you're expected User Group manager and and that's the clients and servers are expected to already have the score security context present and one note there is that if you have proxies in the chain the proxies should not be in the same group as the origin endpoints for security reasons and further updates and we will write some of the notation because when we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "have this nested protection and multiple layers of oscore it can be a bit tricky to express that in a in a clear and good way but we are now improved that so it's easy to see what's actually encrypted and which of course security context is used we also have a an example now with the message flow between um when we're actually taking advantage of the adult plus Oscar request to optimize request comparing that to use case you can see this in appendix A5 and where we're using adock both between the client and proxy and between client and server of course through the proxy and so we wanted to compare here how many messages does it take if you just use vanilla dog how many messages does it take if you use the Ado Plus or score optimized workflow and it's actually quite a large Improvement larger than you may expect so without optimization it takes 16 messages and if you take advantage of the optimization you come down to only 10 messages and that's because you can efficiently combine a documentary and the first Osco request and you also get kind of a added benefit because this becomes nested so to come to some open points this open Point number one uh we currently have this appendix B talking about those score protected on your forwarding uh where the ordering client will first protect the request for the audience server and then you protect for the last proxy in the chain then the second from last proxy in the chain Etc until you come to the first proxy so here we really you can really Nest uh a number of layers of Oscar protection which could become something similar to Thor but using old score so in a high level the draft itself allows for this use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "um so if you follow these rules for method processing and the rules for how you should protect options it all works out even if you have multiple more than two layers of Oscar protection Christian you want to do jumping with something um from my point of view it would make sense to remove that if we managed to put it into another document that might be you know an informative forward reference to work in progress that could use it otherwise yeah having it there just encourages that it would be implemented based on that without being properly thought through yeah and that's exactly the concrete question here is the foundation looks promising but of course there's more details and let's say work needed to actually enable like an actual um similar functionality to Tor um so what we propose is then to Simply remove appendix B uh from the current draft and instead use that content for a separate experimental draft building on the current one so we start with appendix people we have to expand that yes Kirsten So when you say some work is needed does that means some work is needed on appendix b or some work is needed on the main document to make sure appendix B Works no I mean on appendix B so the main document should allow for this Nest x amount of Oscar layers so what is needed is work on appendix B to enable this store equivalent but using all the codes yes so I think that that uh I mean if people are interested in running an experiment based on appendix B then I think we could uh do an interesting experimental protocol uh here so that that would be one way to to process appendix um B but of course that requires people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "who actually want to participate in in that um experiment but I think it's really good idea to work a little bit on this appendix B uh to really make sure that we are not missing anything in the main document that would enable that yep that may make sense when we if we split this out into an experimental draft of course we can also rethink just to make 100 sure that nothing in the main document is lacking which we haven't found so far and like you said then it would be great if people are interested of course we ourselves are interested in and implementing and testing this but of course it's interesting if we have more people involved great yeah I saw some comments in the chat also there from my schools yeah uh Aquarion so open Point number two and this is about um while we were working on this revision of the rules for protecting options it put some light on the RFC 8798 so for the Hope limit option currently no oscore processing or class is defined and so that made us think what that means in practice and actually if you check those score of C in section 4.1 it says clearly that options that are unknown or for which Oscar processing is not defined shall be processed as Class E um meaning that the Hope limit option since it doesn't have any class defined should be treated as Class E pioscore which means that if An Origin client adds such an option to request um yeah it would have to be encrypted as things or today but that is not really desirable because then none of the intermediate proxies would be able to read or take advantage of that option and you may actually end up having an inner and outer option because the the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "inner one is client to server and then the proxy start adding outer ones yeah Crystal given that the Hop limit is um exposing the Hop limit would have previous implications especially because the proxy would otherwise hide the clients I think it does make sense to treat it as Class E because it will be Class E like it will be Class E for for reverse proxy so for whomever this message is encrypted to it could also be X so um it could also be added on the outside but that would probably happen by by proxies that are adding it so um I think that the clients setting the option would be a rather rare situation like if they want to trace route through their through their proxies otherwise the first proxy longer path will add that and that probably makes sense on the when the proxy does this on whichever layer it can so on like most protected layer it can so if it's if the proxy is participating in if if there is Nest at all score then the proxy would add that to its forward proxy um and if the proxy is unprotected then it adds it out and protected anyway of course it means that that you can that that that the the total limit would be different than the than the set number but it would still be in the in the right order of magnitude so something something some of some help limit options would decrease passing through each property whether that's an inner or another option it just yet I think what you're saying you need it probably would be a rare case that it's a client adding the option uh it's just that it's a bit of a it becomes in a sense not useful because it will only be yeah between client and server yes let me continue on a bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "because what we actually want to the situation we desire here is that if uh as we propose we Define this as class uh the Hope limit options class U um in this draft I'm talking about um then what would actually happen is for the protection rules that workflow was showing earlier it would end up such that the option is unprotected end-to-end but it will be protected for the next proxy so even if it's class U if you apply this um the rule set for how to hand the class you and I options you would actually end up protecting it between the let's say the the hopes not end-to-end but between each individual so I think that would actually might end up in a way like you were Desiring it to end up pretty soon foreign it might make sense to to think through that with examples and yeah we're looking at this we thought you didn't really change much in terms of counting the the hopes still allowed it's more about avoiding having an inner option that doesn't really help or contribute but it's just uh introducing overhead yeah that was intent right and and um if you don't apply the the rule set for option protection you would end up protecting the option for the next proxy in the chain and the proxies can protect option between each other but we can think about that a bit more and also produce some kind of um examples considering the situation today and considering the situation if we if we perform this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "yeah I continue the next slide so summary next steps uh just to summarize this document means an update to those core RFC to define the use of all score in a communication like including a proxy and we also explicit that meet nasty logical protection Oscar and all score which is explicitly not allowed in the current text of those currency so what are next steps well we want to submit version 7 before the cutoff we want to add some of the newly identified use cases um including the escl score and this Co-op pm we also want to cover a bit a high level use of the sheet cat decompression which is also related to documents RFC 8824 and now this Chic 8824 update document and this will basically describe like well in a high level how should you apply the Chic header compression if you're actually doing the nestadoscope protection uh we want to have some better figures to show this flow of what steps should you take on your process an incoming request and we would also like to address the two raised open points well of course considering the feedback from today and also do some minor editorial fixes and yeah and we believe that version 7 should be ready for a working group adoption call and the core mechanics are stables and and of course yeah any feedback or comments are very much welcome yeah that was it so thank you map Crystal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:10",
    "text": "I'm not hearing anything if someone's speaking uh your radio is all for Christian sorry I hit the wrong view button um you you mentioned uh you mentioned that there is an added should when it comes to the group the proxy being part of the group communication yeah are there any worse implications than the obvious of yep that proxy would be in the group without needing to I mean if if there is no need to at the proxy area it will be added but isn't there any harm that comes of it if the proxy is part of the group yeah to re rethink what we were discussing about that I think the the issue identified was that if the proxy is part of the group it will have access to the security material uh that actually the server and client are using so you kind of get a reduced security level due to that yeah that's the main issue okay but it sounded to me like there would be an inverse effect because of course you only let members into the group that are necessary but if it so happens that the proxy has a relevant role there that would be forward Christian based also what you wrote in the not I think you're right you then be worse than that and that may be acceptable in a group where I don't know some group members are assumed to work even as proxies so maybe we can change that should to be just a factual statement and if proxies happen to be members of that same group well they'll be just other group members and enabled down to the same security model using the group maybe along the lines of um from just for the purpose of this document there is no reason to add the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "proxy to the group uh-huh yeah I don't see the these comment you're talking about I guess it's in the minutes but maybe it's too strictly as to say that the proxy must not be in the same group we can sign maybe say what what would they okay like you said Christian for this draft there's no we're not requiring that uh and maybe we can mention the the security implications of uh if the proxy is a member of the assembly yes thank you yeah sounds good any more comments or questions on this document and nothing more in the chat so I think we're done with this thanks Richard yep thank you and next is Marco with Faisal okay uh are you sharing the slides for me or should I you can request sharing with the there you go okay this is taking a while okay you're in control okay all right so uh this is the fossil real transition timeout and contest on control uh which has currently the uh the cro2 that was submitted in in March this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "this year and maybe I give a quick recap of the fossil because it's it's been a long time before this has been discussed in the in the core working group so uh the phosphorus is a retransmission timeout and consistent control uh mechanisms for for Co-Op and it tries to find a good middle crown when we are operating in an environment there there are random losses and of course congestion may happen so so it tries to improve the the recovery efficiency in case of random loss but still handles Consciousness safely in particular including the unnecessary re-transmits and it is uh optional to implement in Co-op it replaces or and if implemented and then it replaces the default retransmission timeout and consistent control algorithms specified in 7252 uh the father has two ways to calculate RTO so we call the first one fast RTO so that is a normal RTO so it's basically the same as TCP uses so what's specified in RFC 6298 the the round trip time computation and RTO composition there is a slight modification for the unity Ally session but that's that's not the big difference but then we have you know alternative way to calculate free transmission timer that that we call slow RTO so it's measured as a Time elapsed from the original transmission all the way including all pre-transmissions until"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "the acknowledgment arise so the picture shows that the original retransmission if we don't get the acknowledgment then the retransition timeout expires and if we still don't have the acknowledgment then the RTO is packed off so there is a binary exponential back off Arthur expires again and we retransmit and so on until in this figure we retransmit three times and then finally acknowledgment the rise and the app we measure all these this time from the original transmission and then we multiply this by factor of 1.5 so it's a exponential in that sense as well all right and the uh then we have also a three-state archaeologic each of these three states having their own back-off C area so the fast State the first law state and and then the slow state so for the first state is the normal state that we we are operating but if there is a no acknowledgment arriving and and we need to re-transmit then because it's just like the TCP the the fast RTO and and re-transmit and we have the normal binary exponential backup just like TCP does and then for the next message we move on then to the fast slow state so this yellow state because there was free transmission if there are no retransmissions then we stay there in the fast uh state and uh in this far slow state we in order to make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "the artium mechanism mechanism efficient in in case of random loss or Wireless losses that this is the typical environment we first apply the the fast RTO but if that's not successful then we apply the slow RT also the much longer RTO and that is to ensure that any unnecessary Transmissions that that are ongoing there they will kind of go away and then we continue if still not successful with this fast RTO but following the normal binary exponential pack of logic and I said this first law state it is a a single shot state so if we enter there the next V if there are if the uh if there are no retransmissions need let me go back to the first state but if free Transmissions are needed there in the fast laws there then it's quite like that there is congestion and then we move on to the slow state where we always first apply this slow RT Auto so very long RTO to ensure that the the any conscious Stone and unnecessary Transmissions have time enough to kind of up to leave the network and then after that we kind of follow this uh same logic as the DCP with the binary the the art was calculated in TCP and and with the binary exponential back off okay so this is the basic the logic that that how it operates and let's move on then do the uh the currents tattoos so first of all the uh the the Professor was first the trot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "as a working group document it was happening in March 2000. and 20 and it addressed the uh the feedback from crystal recording the retransmission count option and then in in October 2020 we submitted the tr1 it clarified further some of the issues including the retracement account current value how it is used uh we did some editorial changes and the orders considered at that time that we could be pretty close to the uh of uh pretty ready for the uh working request call and we are for for more reviews including from the transport area and we got a Toro review by calls and and and also the dsvr early review by Yoshi and but then the document went to dormant for a long period of time for due to many reasons kovit being the one one of those there are no cycles for the the photos to work on it but we revived it it this spring and unsubmitted in in March the version zero two and the others think that it now address is the points raised by the uh the reviews so the the the deposited cars race they were mainly kind of asking for clarification and and use better use of the terminology and and so on and the dsvr early review also asked us to clarify some points I I have uh replied to to Yoshi and I think yours yeah we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "agree with you that that the uh that everything that he commented this is okay but what he or she wanted us to do is to add more explanation and justification for the um the virtual backup serious logic so how what is the the kind of a logic behind there and and what is the trusted case on why it can be a little slightly more uh aggressive than the TCP RTO mechanisms and the idea is that we we will submit the the zero three I kind of promise when but hopefully by the next ITF meeting and we'll we'll add this what what Yoshi asked but at the same time of course we would like to have even more reviews and and feedback if only possible and and we hope that the uh that once we are have submitted the the next version then then we maybe are ready for the working group last call okay I guess that's all I have so I have two questions one quick question I try to understand the pseudocode in appendix a and I kind of failed because this is not a uh notation that I'm very familiar with uh can you uh write in the document uh what what this is related to this notation that you're using there for a long time I have taken a look at the appendix"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "uh now I don't recall I should yeah this is wrote this and uh now I'm sorry I don't have the answer direct answer for you okay good good uh elaborate a bit what what was the problem with the circle well there there is some use of variables uh which suddenly are written in Brackets and so on that I really couldn't quite get from this maybe if I haven't spent more time I would have got this but maybe just just pointing what what uh ecosystem what what uh role models were used for writing this story called alternatively maybe making it a little bit more python-like or something that that people are used uh to use might really help um I'm also not sure that this is even mentioned in the document so maybe yeah a little bit of text in the main document that points to this would be useful and maybe a little bit of explanation yeah yeah yeah that's that's a good point why I haven't thought about that this was something we added then in in zero one at some late interfaces if I recall it correctly so uh yeah but uh sorry I don't remember what was the what was the the um for this but we will of course of course we have some explanation there yeah I think the pseudocode is really useful uh so we don't get the same kind"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "of confusion we had in Cocoa about uh which run of of the mechanism is something going into uh and so on so having some pseudocode that people can follow uh it would be really useful my other question is um given that we have had a two and a half year whole year um who of the authors are actually still active on this draft uh could you repeat this who are the uh there are four authors on the right yeah and I'm just wondering uh who's going to bring the energy energy to to follow this through to completion I believe it's pretty much me myself and and you'll pop this Pro hopefully able to help help a bit so so the uh so we do I expect it to work on it so maybe you can discuss with the um other people who are currently listed as uh authors whether they want to be listed as uh contributors um so it's clear who actually are the people that we we want to talk to and who should rightly be acknowledged but are not current authors uh right well there there are of course the all the orders have been involved in in the work yes back at the time when when when when this was developed so so maybe they they deserve to be as as the authors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "even though they probably are not able to put the Cycles to to finish this up but the uh unless there is something that I'm missing yeah we have this this tension in the IHF between the concept of and also that we economics are used to and the concept of an author that that is used in the working group organization according to RFC 2418 um and uh I'm always having a hard time to position myself on this tension I just want to point out that after two and a half years maybe it's time to revisit this and if your conclusion is no change that start I'm totally fine with that but maybe have a look at that who's still around and who should be mentioned as a contributor yeah yeah of course we will we will be in contact and the great we'll discuss that yeah thanks Christian uh yeah I have a question that is not directly related to I don't know whether it's related to the document um so this is changing things about the retransmission as I understand from the document it doesn't change anything about end starts or the number of requests that can be open at the same time um is this something that there might be further work on or is this something that is completely out of that is completely orthogonal through this topic uh I think we haven't considered or I think it's it's out of scope of this this uh document because this this purely touches the the RTO mechanics also the the default RTO mechanism in Coop doesn't have any RTO"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "uh measurement and and rtt and RTO computation uh and and it only has has this uh the uh the the back of logic and this kind of a the password back of logic is indented to kind of a replace if implement it and it replaces the back of logic and of course adds the uh the RTO calculation as specified in this document thanks thanks any more comments or questions yeah I have a question suggestion and there's a recently adopted uh documenting core uh Co-op DM it's basically defining an option for doing performance measurement including measurement of router time so I was wondering if uh the use of that method can complement yours to have a more accurate run through time estimation uh in addition to what you're doing already or if in your case it hasn't add anything but still I'd like to understand better and to document possibly uh even how you can benefit of that how it relates to phasor okay yeah I haven't I haven't been followed unfortunately I haven't been able to follow a core uh for for a while so so I need to take a look at that and and in order to be able to answer the question so yeah and I don't know the answer myself just saying it's something clearly related uh so I think you should say if well that option is not really helping you because you have your own way and it's fine and stable for what you want to do or if it helps you as a compliment and then and then well how you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "integrate it into your uh your big machine yeah yeah I think I need to take a look at that and and then then see what's what is the if it's something that that possibly could be even integrated or used as a alternative for for all kind of some kind of a modified way way compared to what to document currently specified it's for sure a possible additional source of information in terms of run through time yeah and I don't know how well it fits is useful for you but uh I think we should understand uh what the case is here yeah that's a good point so I I'll take a look at that then thank you yeah I think that that's a good point and it may be interesting to look at the uh the specific configurations and traffic profiles and so on where this PM document actually adds something to your mechanisms and and there may be other configurations like like very infrequent uh traffic where where maybe it doesn't add very much so it's maybe useful to think about the the main area of application of of that document okay I just mentioned the document in the minutes and but for convenience I can paste it in the chat as well but hear me percocpm okay thank you Marco if there's no more comments or question on fazer I think we came along to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "last part of the meeting be another business and there were two points added by Esco Gene takes that's right um can I quickly ask Mark you you said there will be a dash 03 and that maybe will not be next week but but what's your timeline you have in mind for that uh we haven't haven't the the exact timeline yet it depends on the on the so for sure not within one one or two weeks but the but but but maybe in early early July oh that would be great yeah thank you yeah hopefully no no promises but hopefully thank you Dave that's for escanal just going to release the slides yeah actually I don't have any slides there I did put up a link uh to the mail question that came in basically so I thought it was an interesting question to discuss in a meeting to see if we can do anything with that so I don't know Marco do we have that mail or that link that you can show it on screen or should I do uh sharing if you send it for you please go ahead otherwise I can share okay well maybe you do it because more experience with it I always keep looking for the right buttons here no problem this goes quicker interesting question that was posted work in group so formal request of an informational draft on conditional attributes to be an"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "official IDF standards um yeah and then it says okay it's used and the lightweight end-to-end protocol um yeah for me first of all it's maybe not that clear maybe the question could be okay why would it need to be an official IDF standard if it's informational you can actually use it also in other standards so what what would be the benefits um yeah of making it standards track documents for example versus an informational document and the other part well Suppose there is a benefit in that then maybe the question is how how would something like that happen so uh yeah if it needs to be kind of re resubmitted and re-reviewed to make it standards track then there is a chance that uh even the the standard document itself might change because of review Etc and that also serves no purpose to NF at least for a standard that's already using it I don't want to use that version and I'm not some different version from the original standard so I just wondered if anyone had some thoughts about that so I cannot see miteko right now I don't I don't know if Carson you want me to say something first yeah so we have been delivering backwards and forwards on this for a while and I think that in the end we said uh we don't necessarily need it as a standard strike document we are just documenting one way of doing things so for for us as the governing robots good enough to have this as an informational document um but I think the the feedback we get from from Oma here is uh that they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "considering this as as a normative reference and for them it would be easier to do that if we process this as a standard strike document so the main difference is that we are getting uh much more detailed uh and and all right so uh tedious review by the isg if we go for that and then of course there's a reason for that so if if we if we don't want to have that real user we go for information if we think it's uh centers that's Justified and um yeah with the Oma request I think it is my view would be that we can go for standards track here but of course that's something that the working group should should decide to do yeah okay that's clear yeah if you look at the documents uh it could certainly be a standards track document so it can just Reserve these particular attributes that he used for the conditional expressions and there's also lots of requirements written there like must and shoot and may Etc so it could be suitable for that stands tracks yeah if the office of course are willing to put up with this extra review so we started to open for this at IDF 116 um also following a comment from the iotd review I was wondering why isn't this Thunderstruck and the authors put themselves in a position such that they are agnostic of that they just want to know what to do and there was someone in the in the room I think Matthias um for sure they were saying already it'd be better if this is Thunderstruck but let's check if there's more support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "and and more support game uh for example from MoMA um so it it's consistent and it makes sense and the authors are fine with that by the way they just wanted to have a clear Direction okay so we can reconfirm at the next meeting uh but seems to me we won't do it yeah okay yeah to me that makes sense yeah and there is already an in fact normative reference to this document in the light to 10 from standard yeah okay but thanks for bringing this up again this is the kinds of discussions we wanted to have in fact Marco [Music] on the next question no actually somebody um shoots somebody from the chairs and provide an answer to this email or or something it could be very short like okay we will consider it or or a summary of what we have just discussed I don't mind but it would be good to get at least one response to it yes we can thank first of all and point to the notes of this mean of this meeting yeah okay does it work for you Kirsten sorry I I dropped out for for a second what is okay for me if we reply to Homa thinking their feedback and pointing to the notes of this meeting and they are ready yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "okay sorry thank you okay then there was one more point yep yep that's also one that I added there so and it was this was only group comb base drafts so now has been waiting for a while um so just wondering okay what is now the next step what what do we need to do or do we have an uh an idea of when this is going to move forward or maybe something should be updated first and because some some time already passed so you can also uh apply updates where needed but but so far I didn't hear anything as far as I can remember we are waiting for a follow-up from Kirsten on the way we answer this working group plus call review and we should be receiving also additional editorial comments from John yeah yeah yeah so this is something that the shepherd who happens to be me uh needs to do and and thank you for nagging the school this is where he's after me and it needs to go forward an additional related thing I can point to um in his recent follow-up comments to a group of score um Christian pointed out that uh the the sort of non-traditional responses that we are specifically using um in group score in a sense can can be seen and they are as an example of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "non-traditional responses defined in the core responses document and it's good to give a reference to that uh yes um after some discussion and discussion also with the group of scoroters it may be even better to put that reference in group comb this actually because those uh sort of non-traditional responses are in fact defining group comb base group of score is just defining how to protect those yeah that's an interesting question so I I wrote this non-traditional responses document just to make sure that we have a place where we collect what we have discussed about non-traditional responses now is this useful as a document on its own or is it just something that that served its purpose by by getting in traditional responses into various documents so if it's the former uh yeah let's let's finish it I I think it's useful it's defining a generic concept of which we have different incarnations in different situations um my point about this was just Christians suggesting to to give a pointer to the documenting group of score um yeah we just talked that pointer is more useful to be included in Groupon because that's where uh that incarnation of non-traditional responses is defined yeah so that may be one little thing we may want to add in Google this in fact just an informational reference to corresponses yeah okay good to know yeah it should be somewhere in the section that says that multiple responses from the same server can come to the same group request okay yeah that sounds useful to uh reference that as well then yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "what do you think Christian by the way because the suggestion came from you first of all yeah so I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm at this so I I made the suggestion talking to this but at the same time um the the core responses probably needs a bit work and might also still get changes in the terminology so it's a bit hard to use from from documents like this um at the moment uh we we don't even need we don't even have to mention the the words non-traditional responses yeah we can just say that you're right we are introducing this is just an example of what is more broadly defined in corresponses that's it with no names at least at least we we needed for for the processing of group requests yes um so yeah maybe that's a good indication to put a bit more effort into getting getting core responses um progressed so can can you send me a little to-do list of things that need to be fixed well uh group on this was mostly for the authors uh for you Carson I think it was mostly following up on the revision that addressed your working group plus called comments yeah that was a pretty extensive uh set of comments so it's a pretty extensive set to check no I was specifically asking about Reviving non-traditional responses and and putting in the information we have gathered since we we wrote this I don't know how many years ago a couple so non-traditional responses is doing a bit of two things at the same time it's both introducing ways of or it's describing ways of doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "them but it's also describing the the concept in general um I think I'm so I'm I'm not completely sure we have a rough working group consensus yet on this concept being really the same thing whether it's group whether it's observation responses whether it's multicast response Etc I would very much like to to get gather a bit more feedback from the working group whether that's really the direction to go to do this unification I'm very much convinced that it is the right way but I'm I'm a bit in the void here okay that's interesting now the problem of course was to to Simply uh point out that there is a similarity here and of course we can our perceptions can differ about the degree of that similarity uh so maybe this document doesn't have to to present the conclusion that they are similar but just needs to contain the the tonology and discussion I think that the tricky part is that of core processing of non-traditional responses um will not be will will cannot work from just description of similarities because then we wind up in the situation where we still have to normatively specify the handling each time but also the first time the Osco processing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "of some non-traditional response that is not observed is described at that time we will need complete something more concrete than just observing similarities but then we will need to say that any case where there where the client processes multiple responses can be handled like this or that or there are these in those distinctions and criteria but still it needs something solid okay I'm not sure whether I'm hearing you say that this should be a normative document I'm afraid so oh okay that's very different from what I had in mind for it okay I think that that's an interesting point we can pick up on on the mailing list I haven't looked at this document for for half a decade so um let's see what we find so irrespective of this an action for group comb this is to add an informative reference to corresponses right as the document where the general concept comes from of which we are producing an instance in group on this and that should be about a comment that came from Christian recently I'm also typing in the notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:17",
    "text": "okay thanks a lot let's go for raising these yep thanks any more any other business to discuss today if not thanks a lot for your time that was a good meeting talk to you in two weeks yeah see you next time thank you thank you all right"
  }
]
