[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "sorry then i didn't quite hear the question but yes now i'm hearing so you could hear me not really okay [Laughter] heard noise acknowledged heard noise acknowledge something as usual we we will uh give a few minutes for the late joiners to arrive and we will start the session around five past the hour hello edgar hello christian hello carlos nice to see you here and matthew hello same nice to see you so i just shared in the chat the link to the minutes so if you guys can join and contribute that would be highly appreciated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:25",
    "text": "hello are you here oh hello yes okay okay okay because my brother got frozen and so i don't know if it's working again okay that's good i got some uh larsen when you guys were talking ah you got some some some somewhat some some nuts have lost an effect okay okay i didn't i didn't know that's called okay we will see if it happens again it was like between you and at that time it was you and lauren where the mic opened oh okay okay uh anyway so i guess it's it's time do you want me to do the intro this time relax or do you want to do it no no go ahead go ahead okay so this is uh an official lp1 working group uh intermeeting and so welcome you all and um as usual since this is an offshore meeting uh we have to abide to not well so they're not well as the usual uh pattern type pr policy whereby if you're aware of any ipr on something which is being discussed today please disclose that ipr during the meeting or let the chairs know after the meeting uh and then please be aware of all the other best practices that we have at the atf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "including entire husband so if you if you're if you witness some bad behavior or some behavior which is not matching the code of conduct and the harassment procedures please let the ombuds team know and the link is actually given on this page um so usually remember a reminder the minutes are being captured and the link is given here it's always safe for in particular if you uh if you speak that you visit the minutes as they are being taken to ensure that what you wanted to express is effectively captured uh anyone is welcome to contribute to the minutes at any time so it's very useful thing to open this link the meetings might be recorded if there is any demand actually this one is recorded if you don't if you have a problem with that please refrain to uh to speak um and the attendance is automatically captured since you you logged in the mythical meeting going through the ietf data tracker account so your presence actually locked but the agenda today uh we'll have a little bit more time than usual on the administrative yeah because we want to discuss ietf 113 so we'll see where we are and and how much time we have uh then we have 15 minutes by anna on the uh progress on the nbiot document i understand that there is a very good progress there so now you you'll be speaking at uh for 20. 420 and then we have a presentation by carless about the uh chicaner compression uh over a 2015.4 on the role of the dev and device and application layers um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "and we have a little bit of time laurence you did not send slides or request a slot but still i thought it was good to have a little sync on when you are on the data model and one carlos told us that you would not be there but if there is any status um after my review on the compound act document it's always welcome as well uh [Music] one little thing about the compound hack is i initially was uh the shepherd for it but uh we we might have to switch so so we'll discuss that but at least i prefer the review so so this that match is uh is still valid for for answers so if there are authors of the component and the one galaxy is not there but please consider the review we had a good number of action items last time so um alexander there were two things on your side and i know the second one has been done for the first one i've not seen you call for adoption for the om draft did i miss something uh no so the point was so the first thing is that we checked if we have uh if it was adopted and actually dominic did the the lookup and he didn't find i mean we didn't actually call for adoption of the document and what we said was that he'll need to integrate so that here is the the the team received some remarks and he needed to integrate them and submit uh as dash o2 and then call for adoption of that document uh but i don't think that i saw this one submitted uh so uh here probably the point would be do we call for a dash for for the current one to be adopted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "and uh then integra of course the the the modifications can be integrated later because dominic is going to be quite heavily loaded i think in the next week so you know there is not so much emergency right due to your second point below which is that we you've pushed the publication date to december of 22 right yes yes so that's that's at the time it's not the most important thing but then there was a to-do for me actually the shepherd review for the compound act which which i did um it might or might not be the shepherd but it's actually a review so i think it's good um dominique is not with us uh he was to richard if florence changed the data model addressed the issue so we have to to check that on the mailing list and republish the oam dock and like you have not seen it actually it's not republished so we'll have to see with dominique about those issues uh laura you were to to republish the data models maybe you were waiting for dominic to confirm something because we said we wanted to work with glasgow i am a little bit late in the draft but i publish a new version of the young model which is in the github repository it has a new date on it so it's easier to recognize that it's a new one and i made all the edition to be compatible with rfc format this means that all the lines are short enough not to [Music] go after the last column so it's so it's compiled without any uh error messaging right now so now the next step is to take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "the draft and to do copy and past to put them in into the draft and add to one or two comments for the new things that have been added so it's not that difficult it's quite boring but i tried to do it before the end of the week if you manage to publish the draft to the data tracker within you know this week or very early next week i guess we can still call for one group last call with the target date of the uh of tuesday of the atf which is our meeting okay up to you otherwise we will start the worker class call at the ietf and we'll complete it one more thing okay and laura you discussed uh that you would suggest a hackathon for the atf and the i guess on the data model uh yes or on chic and data model yes is it still a niger no i register myself and i say that i will work on chick but i don't think i put an item in the cartoon calendar so i will put it and we have even that will help us he knows very well upon cheek now okay that that's really cool um what group status so we alexander effectively edited the milestone so now the uh oam document is expected at the very end of this year and the rest is pretty much the same as it was uh still we have remember we have the sigfox document which was which was expected some time ago and it's still not there it was kind of blocked by the component but our copper deck is mostly done so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "hopefully the fox document can uh can go for less call as well very soon so what's what's new on the documents we have two new publications so the ndiut that now we'll talk about next and version three of the component which is what juan carlos promised us and effectively one goddess has done the old new uh text edition as as we suggested so that's why i could perform my review on it so the review has been uh disclosed on the mailing list and we are waiting for for commands um and then there is oh that's my mistake i thought was not there but yes it is effectively there is the new version of the oam document by dominic which was published on the line so so so so i mean that that should be good enough uh alexander to call for adoption do we agree yes yes perfectly yes agree okay so let's mark it for us to do for next time and then um we are we have extended the introduction for a few minutes to be to be able to discuss about iitf 113 which is in one month in vienna so first thing if you plan to attend remotely please be and from the u.s in particular please be aware that the us will have shifted in summer time but not europe this this week and the week before itf are the two weeks which are you know always weird uh every six months because the us shift before europe does so europe will still be in utc plus one so it's going to be 12 00 utc 1300 utc plus one okay and it's gonna be uh 29 21"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "0 0 i'm sorry the other way around um five a.m i guess in pacific time and eight uh eastern so be aware um you know it's just it's one hour or less time shift between north america and europe that is usually so um basically i i just wanted to know in the small group that we have here do we have a lot of people who plan to be physically present at the atf or is it like people expect to be remote as we did recently for the recent years it's just to get nigeria you know so lauren says that he will come on my part i will definitely not come although i will be very happy i would have come with the greatest pleasure but at that time i probably so most definitely have a a new kid on the block so i'm not sure if i'll be able to i mean i'll try to to i mean remotely i can attend of course but not in person that's for sure because my current plan alex was not to be physically there either but i i really thought that you would be actually a discoveries um so yeah i'll check uh maybe that would be a reason for me to uh eric i guess you you guys expected that at least one of the two chairs would be present i was hoping for this and basically it looks like lauren is coming so lauren maybe or whoever steps forward but getting somebody in the room plus me because i will be in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "the room uh basically do the welcoming and a few words because i think it is important to have a human being in the room as well in labor meetings so i said the name of lauren because he replied the first with i will come but anybody can do it and the chair needs to agree of course so do we have other names anybody in this school who wishes to be who thinks he will be physically present please oh okay so so yeah i mean i guess at least on this girl laura is the best bet because he's the only one no would you mind sitting on on the chair's seat it's a great honor oh yes it is i will do my best okay thank you very much so i'll see reiki i might discuss again see if if i'm coming but the plan was still not to come so in that case uh the horse playing the role would be very appreciative i just have a look and there is a lot of spicy restaurants in vienna yeah it's a special one um yeah um we will send an official call for presentation for this meeting be aware that we have asked for only one hour you you you might have seen that uh the slots for two hours uh were scarce and people were asked to to strongly justify if they really wanted two hours um we didn't think we we would consume we would really use well two hours so we will be calling for 10 to 15 minutes max slot depending on on which document that is um if you ask so we will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "asking you know if you want to present physically or remotely and what kind of duration you expect and we might have to shorten your direction the duration uh certainly it will be below 15 minutes so the the meeting will be in grand park hall 2 and this could be like i said 1 pm time noon utc and with this that's the end of the slides and we'll keep the aub for later so now uh the the the floor is yours uh if you remember you you you have to click on uh the slide share on the top left of your screen you see where there is the aired next to the end there is this paper you need to click on it no no you don't send your screen you share a preloaded file if you don't mind so on the top left below your name there is those five icons one is an aired which is join q and the next to it is share preloaded slide please click share plugin slide okay they will accept it there you go you should get it now hello i have a window that makes me tell me choose a deck to share did you hear me yes this one sure did you hear me very very well enough okay okay thank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "you so um uh we have finished to make all the modifications to the nv iot uh um configuration or this version uh so next slide is here and the first thing we have done is we we eliminate the delay tolerant problem that we think we have to do a new document that's what we have discussed um one more ago i think uh so we will create a new document for this uh big frames to be sent and so we finish with all the needs and the modifications for the configuration of cheek fragmentation and compression over the nv iot network and so the the new thing in this version seven is that we make the rule id space variable size for compression and for fragmentation too that's the only modification the two big modifications we have done and we think that we we are ready and we are ready for for this last call but perhaps we need some reviewers before or late over i don't know if we make the last call and we get reviewers or if we have reviewers and we made a less call actually we now find one reviewer we will do a deep review just you know to to extract the some maybe typos and uh if there is a big bag before everybody reports it so it's kind of nice to have one deep review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um would there be a volunteer in this call for doing that deep review it's a very interesting application in via ut a lot to learn from this draft if you have not read it recently i see careless i see what cats go author um so joe no nobody careless yes do you even i see careless come in and go out to ask um which would be the deadline for this review maybe the next ietf if that's okay yeah see your review comments at the atf and discuss whether we're ready for last call okay so yeah i think i can provide this review by the next idf okay so i make it a to-do many many things that's really appreciated carles and i write it as a to-do okay i say to do review by atf 113 session and if possible a little bit better so the authors have a chance to to look at your comments before the actual session so we can effectively discuss them during the session let's read it so uh alex and uh what do you think we careless provides this review by atf at the etf we we look at the commands we consider if the document is ready based on the commands and we we do the last call yes we are in the deadline yes sounds really very reasonable and um thank you very much carlos for for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "taking for taking that uh to do because um yes we are almost there with that document so thanks a lot carlos and thanks anna and for for taking the document to where it is now so that was all that i have okay now many thanks well please read the sharing you you or i can do okay thank you very much and the next presenter is carlos okay unless you i guess you you know how to craft the slides i uploaded them for you okay so okay uh can you hear me yes on my side it's a little bit lower than the others if there is a way you push your mic a little bit but otherwise yes we can hear you okay okay so um well this presentation is about the topic for discussion on uh the use of the dev and up roles uh when trying to use chic header compression over 15.4 networks so this is uh related with a draft which uh anna and i are quartering and it's intended for six low but of course it's using chic and it's very very related with with lp1 so well just as background so probably everyone in the call knows well these concepts but basically we're going to talk about the devon up roles"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "so rfc8376 is is the first one that defines deven app that would correspond to the constrained device like the sensor actuator and so on an app would correspond to some entity on the network side such as an application server so rfc8724 basically uses the same terms and uh also adds a little bit details regarding the definition and also in in that rfc we can find the figure with the architecture that you can see in the lowest part of of this slide so we have several devices with the role of deb on the left and they send packets to some destination which is the app on the right one thing to keep in mind that later will appear is related with the terms applying and downlink because uh in in the same rfc applying and downlink are defined based on devon app because applying means from depth to up downlink is the other way around so later we also refer to this so the point is the dev and up roles fit very well the lp1 scenario of course because they have been extracted from there and it means that a chic entity knows whether it corresponds to the wrap when it participates in compression or decompression so in rfc8724 the compression rules for some ipv6 and udp head fields and actually those are the prefix the iid and the port numbers are actually expressed in terms of depth and up so they are not expressed by the positions of of these fields in the headers so this is when we write the rules for compression and decompression"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "this is a sort of optimization which has the advantage that the same rule can be used for compression or decompression for both directions so when a depth has to compress it's clear that the source address or the source port corresponds to the depth address or port as written in the rule and so on however well this is the only way in which those header fields are expressed in in a row in terms of depth or up roles so now the question would be okay now what happens if we try to to use chic header compression in 15.4 networks well in some cases we may have star topology networks where we may have constrained devices talking to some network site app so in that case the the current model with the depth and up terms fits really well also however maybe some concern or some questions may arise in mesh topologies because there may be peer-to-peer scenarios where maybe there are say two constrained devices talking to each other and in this case maybe it's not so clear which is the role that will correspond to each because both might be candidates to be considered as dev but at least considering the definitions strictly so some example let's assume some nodes a and b a light sensor a light bulb that need to talk to each other maybe through one or several hops in the middle so yeah maybe we might try to to still use the same terms depth and up for expressing the rules for header compression and decompression and maybe we could say okay let's assume that the node on the left will be dead the one on the right will be up okay perhaps this might work maybe then we need to add another node in the scenario node c which has some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "control on the threshold setting of the light sensor so then there could be a question okay which is the role in this case for a and c in in this kind of interaction when they exchange messages so perhaps we could say okay uh maybe the note a could be up here and note c would be that but maybe this creates problems and maybe it would be easier to to say that well let's try to make notes only have one role for all the interactions they have so maybe it would be better to say okay yeah by doing like this node a is only dep the other nodes are only up it might seem to work however uh maybe the question is can we ensure yeah can we ensure yes and just to to to let you know um we we've been working um you know we have an architectural document which is work in progress it's a draft atf but we effectively have evolved from the dev to app which is now just one case to also appear to peer case where the two devices play some kind of equal role some more symmetrical type of networking and i mean maybe you could you could have a look at the architecture and comment on it because we we wanted to to effectively serve the kind of use case that you have in mind here so just keep that in mind as you present but the the np1 architecture effectively have also the peer-to-peer kind of capability yes so thank you for the comment uh the point is then how we apply how we define the rules for compression"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "uh in in this sort of peer-to-peer scenario because um yeah i i perhaps i should revise again the the architecture document the lp1 architecture but i don't think the details for that or that my problem let's say is solved at the moment in that document so um yeah maybe if you see it i mean there is yellow if you don't mind taking this question no i think it's a it's an interesting problem because i don't think it's too much technical but it's the way we name things and it has a big impact because in the rule we have this name devon app so i think it's very difficult to to change that in did we lose long because i got i got some warning messages do you hear me yes yes we left you for a minute and then you're back okay so so i said that it's uh in the data model we we have this so if we change it has to be done very very quickly and i and i think it will be difficult to to do it and it's not a technical problem it's just a naming problem so maybe we we keep it and say that this one is dev this one is up and uh it really depends in your i mean it depends on who is sending and who is receiving an a or or any node could be dev or up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "depending on what he's doing uh that's my idea i don't know perhaps i'm wrong but a could be dev if he's something to be and it could be up if it's receiving uh or vice versa i mean it could be playing the both roles and it has rules for when he's dead and rules on his app so in that case perhaps actually continuing from from this common um it means that the one option would be to stick to to the depth and up rolls it's the like the first bullet on the first half of the slide and then the idea is we need to add some some additional information to each node to indicate whether it is going to be acting as depth or up for any possible endpoint let's say is that the idea if you really have a point-to-point uh symmetrical exchange and remember for instance we have a draft on ppp where we used shake to compress high speed lines uh and it's between two arbitrary devices and so the traffic can be back and forth um so so if we if i hear uh anna well uh you would become dev uh at the time you sign a frame and up if you receive it and so the next frame might be going the other direction in which case now the in the other direction the sender is there and up is the receiver if really that's the case then yes i agree with lauren we need to sign dev is uh so referred to the architecture to say it can be peer-to-peer in which case dev is the peer-to-peer sender and up is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "peer-to-peer receiver or something like that lauren i just want one point here before i joined the queue i did before uh so yes i mean i think that here we have uh probably a fundamental question to to to discuss and it is as as carlos said um so the notion of dev and app are very clearly defined when we are in a mesh oh sorry when we're on in a star topology or or even you know in a point to point we can like we have two points so we can stipulate pretty clearly you know like we can define this is the def and this is the app right but in mesh like what happens in an intermediate node so i think that the sender and the receiver themselves you know the two endpoints can be pretty clearly we we can particularly define what devon app means but what happens in intermediate nodes you know that need to that would that might need that information to route the message uh so this is uh a question that i'm not sure you know i'm not sure how to map this one very very clearly so we so yeah yes it depends really on for example if you go back to the first your drawing you may have also triangles this means that the two up can talk together uh two another one yes this one so when you have up uh you can have also b and c that can talk so yes i mean they they can a can if a can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "do routing then b and c can talk no no but if you have a mesh i think everything here is on a mesh and we can communicate each other it's not a start apology so maybe that sort of control can or also send message to light bulb directly and so here you in that case you have app and up and up if you keep the same name for every device and so i think in that case you should find a direction or you you did you fix a direction and you say for example a to b will be uplink and so this way this one is a dev and this one is up a to c will be dunling so this one is a dev and this one is up and of course the name devon app has no no meaning but we have to to force a direction because the direction will tell you if the dev is in the source or in the destination so what you're telling understand is for each shake relationship there needs to be a sense of direction so we can say who plays the role of death and who plays the role of up and does it has to be agreed when a starts talking to b i will be deaf you'll be you will be up like master slave on the bus or something like that yeah yeah okay i mean i guess we can update the architecture to reflect that but then there will be a need for negotiation right i mean that that needs to be from arbitrary pe to peer peer-to-peer if if one must be named dev and the other must be named app then we need to negotiate and that might require some particular exchange on some particular networks when it's not obvious you know simply sit down on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "typical ep ones but when it's not included probably you're saying that we need to have a either a configuration or a uh an agreement a second at the beginning of the chic relationship so so in that in that order of of thought if we have let's say like the easiest solution would be to to actually have a bit in the in the packet and that bit says well that's an uplink or or it's a downing right and that can be like you don't care if it's really an uplink or downlink it's just that the sending node can say hey well i think that that's an uplink so i set a bit to one and so now i know that uh you know the def address is going to be used as a uh as a you know for the source ip and and the app is going to be for the destination right and if the bit is set to zero it's the the opposite and you know in the network you can just say like the sender is just marking the bit and maybe intermediate nodes can change the bit if that's doesn't match their rules i don't know yes so for me it's not a question of bit it's more a question of normally when you have shake you you know your traffic and then you create rules for that traffic and so during the rule creation you have to say uh you act as uh this link will be viewed as uplink or downlink butler if you have a large number of devices and there can be a lot of communication a peer-to-peer communication between those devices any 20 and just discover again i'm thinking about the p2p case right you have many robots in the factory and and they discover each other or it might be if you want to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "peer-to-peer robots to robots then they will have to name one of them the dev and one of the mdf sometimes it's more clear what uplink is but sometimes it's not in which case i guess they will have to negotiate maybe it's out of scope for what we've written but still it has to be negotiated or configured you know sometimes you take the smallest mac address you do anything and but so so far for some links there is natural sense of uplink if the robots talk to the scanner or something then then we we know that this the robot is the dev um on the other hand if a robot talks to another robot then there needs to be a tie breaker to say who will play the death yes but yeah in the rules [Music] robot has an ip address and so when he will apply a rule he will have to match the sports address will be yeah but he needs to know dev is himself right so that before it ia robot a talks to robot b they must agree on who plays the dev and who plays the app because there is no sense of up and down go with a slow [Music] okay so i guess we we will um laura is back no no no no we i guess we understand the prime we we need a little bit more discussion but i think uh my current understanding alas is it can be addressed sometimes there is no obvious sales of uplink sometimes there is none and when there is none uh we can say that there needs to be an out-of-bound negotiation discussion to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "select who is dev and who is app and there are all sorts of tiebreakers in the industry for that sort of thing including the smallest mac address right so it's a re-doable but then we have to say it has to be standard out of bed and separately from what we're doing naming those devils app okay so well thanks i think it has been great feedback and great i was considering like maybe there are other approaches like using other terms like source destination but i understand that we may prefer to stick to the level so [Music] yeah yeah because it's if if i send you a frame and then you send me a frame um at some point one of them will still be the the dev and the other will still be the app means we can it's i i see it i initially i thought that was what that i wanted to do but i realized it's very hard to switch um the role on every frame whether i'm sending to you and you're sending to me the sender becomes the dev i can it can be kind of hard so so it's probably easier to just in one relationship to stick to one is depth the other one is up and we do direct bi-directional transmission but we remain one is def one is up no okay so yeah i guess we may need to work on perhaps we don't necessarily want to standardize it in this group because it might be that each deployment has its own way yeah like like they said in 154 you could say if you're doing peer to peer then the smallest mac address wins the smallest mac address is dev something like that and you're done [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "just one thing about that question ernest if we say that in peer-to-peer case death is to be interpreted as source and app is to be interpreted as destination does that solve the the issue in your opinion well the the point is that um well well using devon up is a way to use a single rule to allow compressing in both directions actually see both directions directions so it's like if we use something like source and destination we would have like twice the the number of roles we would duplicate with the number of probes so that's so that's drawback also so yeah i think maybe we might need to stick to perhaps for each interaction let's say between two peers who is that and who is up maybe [Music] yeah i guess we have to think that through and discuss it on the mailing list um carl carlos do you mind coming back to us at the atf with a five-minute slot on this yeah yeah great so we will uh we'll discuss it on the mailing list and and hopefully we'll conclude that the atf and that will certainly end up in the architecture document and and yes it will impact the yak document as well whatever decision yes okay so again we left florence yes so uh what i wanted to say is that maybe we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "can address this as an extension right i mean just to to say okay well we will be addressing the peer-to-peer shake uh um in a second document and uh maybe you know do not postpone the the data model um because if you understand correctly like it's the source and destination solution proposed by carlos it's like it doubles the rules uh which is exactly the same thing as adding one bit to indicate the direction right so we have the sense that here we are fighting about a bit like we're fighting on one bit of compression so basically uh to indicate the the the the direction uh in some way so uh you know probably we could end up having a document which is in line with the architecture that that states well you know in a peer-to-peer setup that works like this and then you need this addition to the data model if we define a bit we need a standard track document just for that bit it's one way of doing it um and yeah completely acceptable but we we need one more draft on the other hand if we say in the architecture that uh so so that's that's basically sender becomes dev right that's that's option one and actually it was option two in calais slack and and the other option is we designate for each peer-to-peer relationship with using nato dev and another map um i don't know which one makes the most sense but but if we if we take we designated they have an app then we don't need a new bit we don't need to to [Music] change data model we just need to say hey who plays the role is either obvious in the deployment or it has to be assigned before shift starts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "at the beginning of the relationship between those two notes okay yes i i don't i mean the way you you say i don't see any like obvious thing that would make it not work but let's discuss it and yeah we have the two options but in the end um if if we go for for the bit then that will impact the data model because we will need to declare that bit as well so we need to talk soon between now and the atf we need to agree on this do you hear me uh yeah okay just one point that is also important is the scope of the rules or the naming space it means that do you have do all the device share the same rules or we can say that the rule space is an association between two devices so if we have this then it means that we we have only uh here we have a we can have a direct direction if we say that everybody is in the common uh rule then it's more difficult to say who's up with down i mean we i am not sure i follow you we can have a rule every device let's say we have a large network of peer-to-peer every device are basically the same fabric but they can talk to one another so that could be a single set of rules apart from the the ip address themselves right or mac address or whatever but but for for the traffic they do etc that could be a single common set of rules"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and they would just have to decide when a talks to be uh whether a in the rule five is the dev or is the app yes but in the point-to-point scenario there is no no no problem and here you raise a good point because in the point-to-point scenario if you have for example a mesh in fact you have at a point to point between all the nodes and on this point to point you apply a set of rules now if you say i am i have a mesh and the rules are common to several nodes here it's it's another problem yes i mean if you define that the the rules are between two devices only then you fall back into the the thing that we already know how to handle like it's a pretty clear so i think that the question here is okay well if it's that setup then you have no problem i mean you two it does the peer-to-peer document of pascal and if you do a mesh then that would suppose actually that you have the same set of rules shared by all members of the mesh network and then you and then you need to solve it so basically let's describe the two solutions uh uh careless since you're the one who bears this slide would you mind sending an email to the mailing list uh explaining the two solutions i mean how to discover devon is it sender which basically the one who sends the frame which is who sets the bit and and is the dev and no and the other one when there is a reply or yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "is the app it still doesn't care to me no or if basically once a talks to b over a mesh um then for that particular peer-to-peer relationship they have to decide before they start talking who will be there and i can talk to five people on some of them i would have negotiated them there and others i would have negotiated them app doesn't really matter but we have to negotiate that so i know what my role is when i look at the rule okay yes so yeah it would be ideal that we really understand taking some maybe some examples uh which one of those two ways works best and if that means we have a bit which says oh i'm using five acting as a uh dev then yes we need the bit and but if we need a bit that impacts a lot of documents and so we need to know if we really want that so okay that was great galas i mean thank you for bringing it because yes we want this b2b we have the scenario for it but you make us realize that we are maybe missing signaling for it so that that was very important thank you carlos for raising it and with this uh do we have any other all right you wanted to speak you see in the queue hello and even for the next item i have nothing to say that was interesting can you compress that sorry i said that even for that progress i already said things so okay you already made your report so so we are good then i guess we we conclude this meeting in time uh thank you all for attending"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "and so uh as you can expect we will be sending out a request for well asking you to request for slots if you want to to present something at the atf and we'll send that email shortly okay thank you all you know like yes we have two weeks right i mean is it correct i think we still have one in two weeks yes okay we'll confirm that i'm starting the mailing list anyway so you guys take care and enjoy your thank you pascal"
  }
]
