[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "It's time. Welcome to the Netcon working group session. For ITS 119. In Okay. Smartworking. You should be familiar with the note well. Essentially, bad participating in ITS, agreeing to follow the IIT procedure and policies There are a couple of BCPs on this page that you probably should be familiar with. If you're not, Please do familiarize yourself. There is also a code of conduct that IIT follows it strikes her mutual respect dignity for all Of course, common sense, decency, If you want to read up more on it, there is a link at the bottom of the slide for you to go through. Alright. If you're in the meeting, Yeah. I guess you know the tools you should be logged in to. To participate in the meeting and also, of course, a blue sheet registration, So please make sure you're logged in. You can use the in meeting version, if you're here locally, Or, of course, if you're participating remotely, you'll have to 42"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "There is, of course, an audio only channel That is also available in case you want to use that. There is a chat window that you can open as a separate window if you want to follow all the discussion there. Okay. Alright. Status of work through patents. The HTTP node of draft has been an IAC telechat And I think, Rob might have an update on when think, it might be able to exit We have a meeting scheduled later today. So, 7 of 7 of them are now approved. So I've proven this morning, so they've gone through. And then now a bit will be in the RC and it's acute now, not soon. 2 of them still need to go through working group through IITF last call. Then open your plate. Would ask Yeah. So, sorry. I was asking about the city. Fine. We'll have discussion for that one. Yes. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So the think there's a meeting later today, to meet with, Mara. Okay, Lars. I my assumption is this is gonna be approved before I step down. Okay. So stay there because I think the next you're right. The client service suite of drives, I noticed you Did approve it, send it for publication request. 7 of the 9, Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. I think what is remaining is probably the net count and the risk Client service, suite of drive, for those 2 still need, to go to IETF last call. The second comments was off, or still comments for me to back to Alright. Anything else? You're gonna take over. Yeah. A moment."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "The TLS 1.3 draft is, of course, in the RFC editor queue. One draft that we did it up between 118 119 was the UDP client server Is that groupings? Draft, and is, of course, being discussed In this meeting, The UDP node draft is also work in progress. Being discussed here, Same as the case with distributed notice. No. Actually, it is You know, this is a slight way we would look back at to be number Anyway, so, This is a slightly older deck, but if I think if I remember, the the distributed note of is the one which is work in progress, but not being presented here, transaction ID, list pagination, private candidate, net contrast comp extensions to support trace context, and external trace idea. I think all of them are in the agenda that will slash in a minute. Since this is the older deck that you're really missing, tap a subscription Yes. Great. Yeah. The list of drafts doesn't mention adapters description, but it's also a working document that not being discussed today. So here's the agenda for today's, meeting. It's a fairly packed agenda. And I think, We, of course, have these items that I just mentioned And 3 more drafts. A set of drafts, I should say. That I'll assume the agenda That's that. Sharded list of items."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "In the non chartered items, we do have 3 graphs, And I believe there is at least 2 more items. Yeah. Net con next and Rescon next. And I believe there's a presentation, but Thomas on some of the work that was going on in the hackathon. Alright. So that's as far as the chest lights are concerned. I just wanted to take a couple of minutes here. To tank rub you're still the 80, by the way. He doesn't step down till tomorrow. So but I did wanna take the opportunity to say thank you to him. From, the ultimate comp working group. For his ears of cells, It's truly a service to the community. So Thank you. Thanks. It's been fun, and thank you for stepping up. So talking of stepping up, I think this is question that was asked in ops area working group also. What is my vision for The area as a whole in my time, South probably outline it as three items that I am going to try to focus on as much as possible. RFC 3535 and 20 years since looking at the work, that is, started in in MOP. And trying to see I I I what it will take to kind of get maybe another workshop or maybe enough input from the operators. Together to figure out What We did write what we could do better."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "The the second item kind of a fall out of that is to also evaluate where we are in the adoption phase of all the yang models that IITF has published. And to try to understand where are some of the shortfalls, if in terms of their adoption. Is it the tooling issue? Is it an issue of Not iterating. Through it fast enough for the industry to adopt it. So and kind of an evaluation. Maybe maybe I look back see really what we need to do. And come to a decision if you want to pursue. Continue doing this work. And the third item is, of course, if you do decide to continue the work, It's really looking at All the Yang models being published To see, do they truly work with each other? And I'll give you an example with BGP model that we were working on. And you're still looking on it. That it during its development touched couple of other models. The BFT model, the TCP AO, The TCP model to Support TCP AO. And, The key chain draft that are routing policy draft. So enough to identify that there were issues as we were trying to put the PGP model together. What I'm saying is I think, similarly, we need to do and evaluation and look at the existing set of models to more holistically to see do they actually work together, Rama? Some, some Hey. So that's that's me thinking about what I want to target. Ken, Ken. Thank you. I wasn't sure if or set the timer or not. Yes. So I also wanna thank Rob for his, years and and recently publishing my drafts. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "Also to Mahesh for, you know, stepping up. And also I wanna thank purr. For, stepping up to being new, metconco chair. He's online, by the way. And, you know, I guess technically, the well, actually, I'm not even sure if he's technically still the secretary or or charities. He's there. Okay. Yes. So to welcome and congratulations for Yep. Yep. Yep. And with that, let's live on I can just take one minute and say thanks to Robash can't for everything. Carryout. Okay. Jim, Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Chengu, and the topic I'm gonna present here is a list of pagination for young, verticals. Yeah. It's really relevant to Chopper. So then the name is clear. It's, you know, the hunting member. Actually just before this meeting, to facilitate progress of this, you know, this origination suits, Actually, we, design team member get together actually, at the end of the last year, you know, December 28, actually, to try to, you know, discuss all the remaining issues. So in the latest version 3, actually, we address this issue. So, so we like to, you know, report back, you know, what January made. In this, draft. So this is overview of list pagination, dropped this. So we have already drafted. The first driver is actually defined generic magnesium allows the client to control the filtering and also, you know, retriever the sub portion of the entry in the list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "definitely. So the client doesn't need to retrieve all the entry. In in the least, or the only need to, you know, treats some of their interest in the entry so that so, you know, this thing actually, we other jobs, you know, extended the basic, mechanism, you know, to support a net of net call protocol and arrest call protocol. So current status, actually, we, try to, you know, narrow down 3, you know, main issue, actually, we also made a a some editorial changes. So I will, you know, discuss 1 by 1 for for number of cursor pagination, and, local aware connection support and also Snapshot support for contact force. Uh-uh listen actually. This has been moved to a new innovative chapter. I think my, colleague, her parents and well, you know, give give a update for this, you know, new individual chapter. And, So we, you know, separated to try to make, you know, other chapter, you know, in good shape and stable and ready for the next step. So post the issue is the cursor based pagination, actually in, this draft actually, you know, this change apply to 3 jobs and, them, in this, Actually, we actually, had a collaborating test actually make a, you know, conservation you know, you know, must be support for conflict force this. But it it is optional, you know, supporting for the config service to do. So, actually, we, you know, set, you know, cursing support a different kernel capability node in IETF system capability model. And, the second change actually, is, you know, we, introduce, next cursor and the previous cursor, and we also have listed key. So we can use these, you know, you know, at least the k or or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "previous next to the cursor to, you know, offset a list of the resource to get access to results set. And in addition, we actually, to make a little bit of change, you know, you know, for a leaf list, seems to, you know, there's no, conformance, so the, you know, added collaboration text, to, you know, highlighted, you know, the confidence for the leaflets that, you know, in this, seminor to the, you know, offset, this patient agent. So we, so you you can see, know, the example we gave here is, you know, at least the entry that's, you know, 6th entry, you know, the first two entry, actually, the you know, they are, they are, they are same, but they only can be distinguished by the position. So so this, similar to the offset. So I add a color in text to, to, you know, make make it more clear. So, for how how compromise now, localized for the lift at least And, Local aware condition, actually, this is another issue and, you know, these know, local wear, collision need to be, you know, you could change it as a capability between the client and servers. So local by default, we should be assuming it should be the UTF dash 8 encoding. So we gave the, examples that server can return this kind of encoding with training or without training, like, your UTF dash 8, you know, in this example, SC, you know, stand for the Swedish language. So we, you know, gave him these kind of, you know, cases. So in addition, actually, we renamed the non Nancy query parameter sorter local collater into the, local to make it more simple. And, and also, you know, for some, you know, finally, handling for another local may not be supported, or passed by server. So So, what area in Beijing should it be, you know, return? Actually, we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "make a little bit changes. We return a local unavailable instead of the local no, based on the design team member, you know, discussion. So we gave it an example or low we're accomplishing. Actually, you can see the client can send a request to request the, you know, return you know, the the member, from the member list, defining the example of social, data model, and we set a local as you know, as way that, underlying SC actually leads, you know, this kind of encoding, actually, in a response, you can see actually the the encoding, also, you know, get a, return and, Without the training, So another, seminar example. So client actually, you know, also requested the member from the member list, actually, by the the the set of local, you know, using, the encoding with the training, like a UTF, dash 8 response, is, very similar. He will re response with this kind of, you know, local encoding. Yeah. Yeah. For other changes, we made, all actually, a tutorial changes especially for young securities consideration. Actually, we try to, you know, use the security template, you know, and to you know, follow these contemporary and, to make make it, you know, complete. And in addition, we actually, in our panics, we at a local query, parameter example, we also spend, you know, example of social dataset And, Yep. That's all the chain you apply to the 3 1000 I think, for the next step, we'd like to request working good, for the last call. Yeah. That's it. Thank you. Any questions or comments? Just to be clear, the This is planned to go to last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:05",
    "text": "Just to clarify in question or comments. So for the Lacal, what what the impact does that actually have So the two examples just show it being returned directly What does the server do that information? Can can you repeat it? So so when you're asking for La Carl, then what's the impact? What's it doing with the low car? So is it changing the sorting mechanism? Yeah. I could I could clarify. To co author. Yep. Perfect. Go ahead. Thank you, Qing. That is exactly correct. From the it changes the the collating law. Okay. And is that something that's optional support or mandatory to support? It's mandatory. Okay. Okay. I just wanna It's not mandatory to take it in, but it's mandatory to report it. Okay. What's the difference from the UTF 8 versions of the non UTF 8? Nothing. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. So it's it's just, because on on my system, the operating system reports with the doc UFA. It's a Linux system. So it reports the the locale with Doctor UNFAIT afterwards. But in the draft, it says that that they're the same, but you have to support both. So they're equal. With or without the trailing dot certificate. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Thank you, bro. Alright. Thank you. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Is James here? Okay. So Just some updates on the private candidates draft. The 2 version was released prior to the meeting. We've already got some kind of feedback on the list about it, which is good. 2 kind of fairly significant changes. We reworked kind of wording in the draft based on some feedback in the working group about there being kind of too many options that could be selected. To simplify it a little easier. So the concept of manual rebase auto rebase mode or continuous rebase modes. Have been, removed from the draft. And the wording, functions, gives you the same options, but the wording is just, you know, a lot more simple to understand. We also, as a part of that removed the ability to or the requirement to exposed to a client what mode you're you're running in. We think it reads, a lot easier now to, to understand and work through The other significant update was, reworking the rest comp section thanks to the support of the working group. And I know that there's been Sorry. That was quick. I'm already done. None. I know there's already been some comments on the list, which is great. We need to kind of review those and take those in, in relation to, extending and perfecting this this rest comp section, and I don't know if castons in the room, but there was also a mention of core comp from the on the list as well, which we hadn't considered in any way at all. So we'd be interested to have a chat. And find out a little bit more about how we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "address that if it's required. We raise my hand. Go ahead. Yes, Kent, as a contributor. I'm sorry. As a tear. This working group only worries about Netcomp and Rescom. It's that's in. Don't worry about, Coricom. the different working group Yes. So it's really for them pick it up, I only mentioned that in the email and as in parenthesis, assuming it's, would apply to Core Camp, but I think Carsten, replied. He did. Yeah. Yeah. No. Exactly. So it's really conversation for this working group. a side as not opposed Yeah. And and I think we just wanna understand applicability on whether we need to take it to the other work or not or not or not not. What we have, kind of in the works for 3. Obviously the changes that have come back as a result of, feedback on the list in race to rest comp will working on that section. We still have the end models to add. We know that's been outstanding for some time. We're actually going to remove some of the techs that deals with how a client should react when it doesn't support private candidates. Within that kind of wording was was incorrect and should be removed and we're gonna rework or look at how to rework, some of the text considering the situation where the system may choose to run an update itself. And encounters a conflict. And as part of that reworking, it became apparent that we also needed to rework the text in relation to what the resolution modes were doing in terms of both replacing the configuration and the element as in conflict or out of conflict so that it could be resolved at a later date or easier by the system. So let's see update for Just want to start with any questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:07",
    "text": "Robleton as a contributor, just to get back a couple of slides. I just wanted to update understand the change. So, To remove both modes and then need to advertise any of them, Will a client be able to know how a server's going to behave? So the way that the draft is written currently is that It will behave in a single way. It will behave as a we're in manual update mode. Always. However, a server may choose as a kind of implementation option to run an updated sell separately. But not based on how the client would have triggered that at all. So the client we we felt from the kind of reworking of the tax age of the client doesn't need to be aware of that particular activity. Because the resultant changes it would be aware of. So for example, and this kind of ties into some of the work on the third bullet here. Let's say you make a change in one of the candidates that gets committed and a system has chosen to run an update for whatever reason, whether that's as a trigger or a schedule or whatever the may choose those, elements in that kind of auto update. Scenario would get still marked potentially as in conflict. And then on how we move at this piece of text, that for any commit anyway from the client would still fail and they would still be kind of identified as this is problem. So you still wouldn't be committing other people's changes without knowledge. Would it get behavior change, though, in that case? No, the get behavior would not change. For the auto update case. It doesn't get behavior wouldn't have changed in the old wording either, actually. The, To to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "Canada as stands, is what's going to be returned in the get on a, on a candidate. On a private candidate. Pretty need to read it. So I guess the thing that I'm trying to think of in my head is and know that some server implementations have this flexibility. You can choose which motor operating, I don't know whether that's gonna be lost here And when you say which mode Well, whether whether auto updates or or the updates done manually. Cause I think that does impact clients because clients it was having a truck to serve probably want to know which those 2 behaviors gonna happen. Yeah. And and we're we've definitely taken that into consideration with the rewording you know, it's, it's clear there are different implementations and different approaches doing this. We think the streamlined text covers both of those implementations are coupled with the how you deal with the automatic resolution piece. That will come in 0th rate. Without having to explicitly set it in another mode and then advertise that. Again, we, you know, we don't have this kind of, negotiation thing. So it would really just be, I'm working in this mode, which actually within the client doesn't actually need to know about given the functional behavior will be the same. From the way we've described it. So you will still know that it happens The client will still see updates or fail updates depending on what situation it's Okay. Need to also read it. Okay. Okay. And for the questions Okay. I'm sorry. So what are your thoughts for next steps? So next step is to put a 3 out fairly quickly after the meeting the plan. And then, the next plan was to, see how that conclusion goes down with the discussion, particularly around the kind of risk area, which I think is the big piece we need to kinda nail down and get right. And then at that point,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "we'll, we'll consider whether we're in a kind of last call situation Alright. Sounds good. And, I guess, also the yang model. The Yamals need to go in. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. going to be, I I think they're fairly straightforward addition to the existing angle. So suspect they won't be contentious. Right. It's it's the timer. Transaction Yep. I believe Jan is gonna present, and I'll pass control. To your Alright. You should have slide control now. Good. Thank you. So I would spend a couple of minutes on transaction ID followed by my comments on pre canned that we just heard. And then the phrase contexts, 2 drafts. So we have 3 short presentations in succession. Sorry? So, transaction ID is actually very simple. It's nothing has changed. Submitted for exchanges and some important string has changed value, but in principle, everything is as it was. It's because we don't really see a lot of things It's unclear or that needs to be at this time, at least I haven't heard anything from the list, and I can't think of anything. Self self self self The the one thing that, people have been mentioning that's, well, maybe we shouldn't last call this one right now. It's because of this relation to pre cans,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "And, even though there are no change is proposed for the transaction ID draft at this time there is one area of overlap that we'll come back to in a couple of minutes. Where we need to sort out how things work. And of course, we have some implementation experience of this. We're probably going to get some more the question to the group here is, are we done? Is this time for the last call or So do we have something missing? Yes. In English and I'll just ask So, Jan, just to be clear, are you asking for a show of hands on whether you think are I'm just giving you the option to chime in and say something if you want or otherwise, I'll continue with the next slides. Okay. We're creating a show of hands full. Okay. Oops. I'm creating a show. While that is going, I can show the next slide, which is try to summarize the features or this is. So all of this work is only relevant for the conflict truth stuff. Nothing for conflict falls at this time. This is a feature that works with running candidate or even pre canned, I think. And it's office reliable and parallel editing from multiple clients. Without use of any locks And, it's making this management protocol, actually considerably more efficient. And it also provides echo detection and yank push with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "problem with that. Sorry, John. Can you hold up or doing the show hand 4, Yeah. Sure. I just have to give my ads here for this is a good thing. Okay. I don't see it changing much anymore. About a quarter of the room re re replied. And of that, only about, they said that they had read the draft which is a little bit less than we probably would want. So I think what we'll we can't it's not appropriate right now to see if it's, with with with a show of hands for adopting the drafts. But we can definitely encourage people to read it. And, and maybe I'll do the adoption. I mean, you did say there's one more item to resolve with the private candidate Yeah. Yeah. So Nothing to resolve, but, there is one area of potential overlap. Oh, Alright. Well, let's see. We'll work through that and then we'll try to do, get get encourage people to read the drafts, before 120. Get the, I hope we could set up it then. I think this draft would be ideally, this draft would be adopted into the package right, along with private candidate and couple others. I mean, it is adopted. It is adopted since a long and while back. Sorry. I'm asking. What we're talking about now is potential last call. Yep. That's what I meant. Alright. Let me move to the next slide. A next set of flight. I had one more on this one, actually. So Okay. Please go ahead. Hi."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "I think I lost control over them now. Site. Try now. Sorry. Before we get, James, did you have a question on the transaction ID, No. James Crowing. Just a quick clarification on this slide. So I I believe the draft also covers operational and intended date stores for the get. Side of things, Is that right? Yeah. Alright. But you don't have any transaction IDs for get parts for the operational parts. And then there's a there's nothing in the draft. Explicitly restricting its use on COM6 OLs I know it's not the primary aim, but is there anything like tech technically, the There There are no transaction IDs for the configurable data. So while you can use the operations, it won't give you anything new. Sure. Okay. But there's nothing there saying that they couldn't be added in the future. They were not No. We could make another, if we think it's a working group that's what we wanna do. We can do that. Something similar for for company files. But I think that's That would be a lot of work. It's it's not something that you just, and, change to sentences and everything will be fine. Alright. Thank you. James, is there a reason why you're asking I took king of the microphone. When in relation to the, the get side of things, I could see some use cases where you may want to gets things that have changed from the various different data store Okay. So let's say you, you had something in intended and expanded version and maybe it was interesting to see if that expanded version had change Okay. Thank you. And I think a past slide control back to you, John."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "Yes. Thank you. Yes. I agree that there are potential use cases for the for the operational Okay. So for the conflict false case as well, definitely, but, I did not cover that in this work at all. And it is last saying I wanted to say about transaction ID was this, okay, here's some numbers that I run, with you already a year ago. And be so that some quite big improvements in performance and no locking and no vulnerabilities and So I think they're good reasons. To to implement this. Okay. But let's switch over to the next presentation. Should I just change tech button here. Yep. Sorry. Yeah. I have to do it, but Rod's gonna ask a question well and change his life. Based on what James said. So is this support of unintended? That's Coffee config through date store. Yes. I think so. Okay. It doesn't mention intended specifically, but the mechanism works the same. Because that one might be worth clarifying. It's just fine because that probably be useful because I've mentioned that is that the case that James was thinking of that would make sense to me rather than operational where I think it would be how to, could be mindful of your time. You're about halfway through your 15 minutes for 3 slides. Yes. Yes. That's good. So the next thing was, I was thinking about getting into the queue and talking about, pre camp, but I thought I have my own 5 minutes so I can use thermostat So here's the comments, that I had on the version 2 of the preprint campaign. And here's where it might overlap with transaction ID. Because both prep count and transaction ID have a concept of conflict And it would be really nice if we could make those those concepts. Either be the same or at least aligned so that they work together."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "And the conflict in the conflict detection in the prepcans 2, is it that if, and only if a particular leaf change to different value in running and then in the pre canned. Then that would be a conflict. In the transaction ID 3. The conflict definition is that if a client specifies a transaction ID for a particular node, which could be a leaf of a container or list item. And the same node or the descendants of it if that, in the case of a container list item, If those are changed, then that's a conflict. And that is clients find control over lowering some conflicts, and even specifying potential conflicts for for things, it doesn't change. And that's quite important in many use cases that I see. And also the the pre can detection mechanism can only detect conflict on leaves and not in containers on these items. So that's I don't I'm not saying that we need to update the prep can to have the same definition, should at least allow this sort of behavior. From some way. And when it comes to conflict resolution, the draft talks about 3 notes. We have the ignore overwrite and the burden conflict, which in in traditional gets linked with the hours theirs and stuff. And But it applies this, resolution mode to everything in the candidate. That's kind of that's not how you usually merge things that you apply. You when you you are doing your merch, you're not saying ignore everything or or or to take everything hours or take everything theirs most of the time, So, this stop option is the one that I feel is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "the most common one to use in in real work. But that one is, in the current version of pre canned, in the o two version we can't can't use it if if you have this sort of implementation that, that I have in mind So I would like to that it's, allowed to to do that. And here's the different implementations. You can implement, they can probably probably can do that as a snapshot it's a diff versus running. And a snapshot you would take, copy of the entire data store. So then the private candidate can work on that. And that's obviously nice and easy in many ways, but it's also if the confirmation is big. It's it's expensive. And the other way of doing a snapshot is that you pretend that you copy everything. But you don't and then you just monitor for changes and do a copy on right. So when somebody commits something else into running, then the original version of what was in running before that change goes into the I have candidates. And that's that's fine as long as, there's no not the high volume of changes. But if they configuration is large and there's a high volume and changes is not so good. Then you want to have this diff versus running instead where you don't copy anything into the private candidate would change. When things are changing and running and things you'd haven't change, they will show up in in your private candidate. So that was my proposed changes to allow this, this, transaction ID kind of conflict detection mechanism and to allow revert and conflict and I saw it on the presentation that you just heard from from Jameson Robwills That's some things will be considered placed. That's very good, I think. And I agree totally with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "the language being much easier and clearer on the in the pre canned 2 version versus prior versions. So I'm very happy about that. I see there's several people in line here. Yeah. James First. And glasses are short term. Okay. Just to the last, Balaji, Ericsson, just to the last two sides, This would bring the private candidate more in line with what others are doing. For example, in 3 g p, private candidates or whatever they could similar man is only contains the delta, the changes. That means that the prospect of conflicts is much smaller, and you can have operators working on separate parts of the configuration, I'll take that as a show of support James Langman. Okay. So, Thanks, Jan, for the, previsibility of the to discussions for you've been really useful. Not to preempt the the 3 version, but We have looked at the prescriptive nature of what is a conflict and the proposal is to make that significantly more prescriptive, prescriptive, including changes of values, changes of existence of things, changes of orders of lists, etcetera. In existence or otherwise, presence disease painters, and also, attributes from young metadata on nodes is is also a change conflict conflict So the plan is to, be much more prescriptive there and hopefully language that can be reused in in multiple faces. So that's one of them. Yeah. I know you're able to go back to one slide. I think it his his his Not that one."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "You had, an implementation slide the implementation slide. Keep That one, that's perfect. So when considering this one and and allows us to comment actually a moment ago, the rest of Netcon and the NMDA architect there is really describes the candidate as being a full copy of the configuration. And that's the approach that we wanted to stick with in terms of the private candidate drove. However, the implementation of our server in how you might choose to implement that. I think is still as open as it is to you. Whether you should store you know, diffs or snapshots or however you choose to do it. And you know, I think that maybe that is not required in the draft of about how a server must implement it so much as the end result as per what we have with the other NMDA capable graphs. Yep. I agree with that. But, Arzana, I don't think it's the implementation the critical but the scope of the potential conflicts if I'm working only on the right brands, I can declare that the left branch, I don't care. Any conflicts are not important for me. Yeah. And I should be clear that that is the case. I know Jan mentioned in his patient, He believes the conflict and the resolution is for the entire configuration. That's certainly not the intent or spirit of the draft, and that's part of the reworking that we wants to do from that language side of things. It is on a more, granular level for sure. If you're editing you know, one one subtree over here and another subtrees changed over here. Those 2 are not in conflict. And so that just continues as normal Okay. I just wanna be clear, though. It's, it's, it's not being limited as to where you do the edit. You could I mean, you're just choosing to edit 1 half the tree."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "Yeah, absolutely. There's no kind of partial locking approach at all. It's it's you can really you can work wherever you like, but the system when it's affecting a conflict Okay. That's helpful. Consider whether a an individual node is directly incomplete. Or otherwise, based on that That sounds perfect. But but the spirit of Jan's presentation here is the opportunity. For the private candidate draft to make use of the Transconnect transaction ID. Yeah. So, I'm sorry. I didn't quite understand your response to that. You said you're gonna have more More specific mechanisms, I think, with the language Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. I wasn't clear. What we wanted to do is create a a more specific baseline for what is a a minimum requirements for meeting a conflict this is a compact but we have purposely allowed draft to say, that a server will you know, may apply other gems, other resolution modes essentially was not resolution mode side of the other restrictions as to what is a conflict Okay. And that would that language would cover transaction ID as the transaction ID changes it's a conflict you're saying that transaction ID could be used, but other mechanisms may be used. Exactly. The idea is that we we want to make sure that any draft is available for implementations that do or do not Okay. I see. Alright. So let's take that to the list as to whether or not we wish to or other mechanisms besides transaction ID. Because it is a working group document. And, we should, not make lives more complicated for the operators than necessary. We are out of time but, let's move. I'm gonna close this slide set Thank you, James, and yeah, I'm gonna bring up the next slide set again. But please blaze through it because we are definitely chewing into someone's text. Yeah. That's fine. Sure. And gotta say it's possible to do it very quickly. Yeah. Might Oh, this is, not the one, but I can say it just, I don't need my slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "the the slide that I the last slide that I had was about, transaction context, tracing, And, Yeah. Exaction, And, basically, there are no changes here. It's done. It's very simple in this case because we are referring to an existing WPC, standard. And we're just saying, let's use that. And very trivial mapping for how that is going to happen in net cost and net cost. And we don't have any ideas about what else needs to be done here. So we think we're ever done. It's about, when an orchestrator talks to a control holder, it can propagate the trace IDs so that when you are tracing things in your melt environment, you can actually see how a transaction goes through the orchestrator and what's log messages come out to there and then in controller and then from the device and so on. So we're just saying that we're done, and we hope that, somebody will consider last call on for these things, even though they are just adopted we are done. Yes. Thank you. Any questions or comments, changing the slides, I did ask Jan to present, that just even though there was no changes because, I think always important for work group documents to have a presentation. So thank you, Jan, doing that. And Thank you. Way, control then Perfect. Let's And so didn't first. Right. Hello. So, about press ID, yeah, the the configuration tracing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "So I there was no no major change, except the fact that was accepted so, basically, just to quickly record the IDs the same idea as the, as the previous, presentation about the the the trace ID, but but To to be able to find whenever there is a change on the particular network element, what was the what was the the the cause of of that, of that change So to be able to have the the the trace of the configuration from Office Twitter to controller to network element And so, yeah, basically, it's been adopted, to use the concept of trace ID instead of transaction ID made it much more simpler. So, basically, this is why it's it's kind of, in a package with the, the the the trust context drafts, And, yeah, not not much updates. So the the next step we have some issues about how to to get the client ID. So, basically, when there is a a netconf transaction to understand who is the with the the client and to identify it so that we can basically, trace it, and to, we need to make sure that we are aligned with the the other draft. So, basically, at the moment, we are reusing the concept of the trace context, which is, the way to to transfer the the the the trace ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "and we would need to find a way And and basically, this is the the the alignment that we have. And there is still an open question, which is whether we should change the current the current version of the of the young modeling in order to do something that is more close to the existing, for, let's say, to the existing model, for the for this, the the the try the trace context. So, basically, this is the this is the current status of this draft. So in the spirit of trying to reclaim some time, just I I think this is also a draft that, We I haven't seen much discussion on the list. If you could try to bring the discussion to the lists and these next steps have that discussed there. And I think that's probably all all the same for right now. Thank you. By Sean. Thank you. And, Alex. Hello? So I'm Alex, from an update on the, YouTube client server draft, so this draft to give you back a bit of context was based on the feedback on the UTP notifications. Where there were shown some interest on having a dedicated draft for generic, UTP groupings. So in this draft, we define 2 groupings, one for configuring, UDP client and 1 for the UTP server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "the DATLS ones, have been removed. Following the feedback from Kent. And these are groupings to be used stand alone or in combination with other protocol stacks. The status of this document has it's a working group, dopya now. And we would like to special things to Benoit, to financing for for the comments on the mailing list. To give you a bit of, a specificities on on these groupings. So we are defining 2 groupings, both with the IP address on the local port the IP address is defined as an IP address without the zone, following the figure from from UDP Notive. And right now, the port is not mandatory anymore. We have to find default port. A 0 so that the users of, this grouping redefine it on the draft, not a lot of changes. Disagreed considerations has been, rewritten following the security guidance. So that's a bit I'm sorry. You contributor. Yep. I'm in I'm in the queue. can't just a As a contributor your client model there, the remote address I see it's, IP address, no zone, but, should it be possible to specify your host name? Ah, that that's that's why I have the next slide, actually. Okay. Perfect. Thank you. Yeah. The during the working group, adoption call, we will raise also that we were not following the TCP client grouping, as a structure. Here, yeah, so on the TCP, they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "was the final, host name. So they were allowing ipv4, ipv6 with the zone, but also host names. On the UDP client 1, given that it was from the feedback from the UTP notice draft it was to finance an IP address, nozom, so a more conservative choice. As of now, the UTP native, it the main user of this grouping. So I I'm not against on, on changing that. That also take into the account the the impact on on on the other ones. But, I would like some feedback on on this. Okay. Kent has a contributor. UDP Notice is no longer the only consumer of this model. Yeah. Thank you very much for, for putting this draft out because it has saved the day probably in a in a ISG review for the HTTP a s note of draft, with they have been very concerned about lack of support for quick in that draft. And because this draft existed, I was able to create a quick grouping that basically puts together the TLS grouping plus the UDP gripping. And that will probably allow the HPS node of draft to pass, ISG. Ballot, hopefully today. And so, anyway, yes, it's no longer the only consumer. And we shouldn't be thinking of, these drafts as having a singular consumer anyway. The entire spirit of the client service suite of drafts is that they are usable by many other contexts. It's perhaps, anyway, it's it's a good thing, has taken a while to get there, but it's a good thing. And they are being used by other working groups. I also have the question on the local addresses. Shoot also this client grouping, support the local addresses as, as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "the TCP client grouping does that's also something that, were raised by by Met hardering, working group adoption. Sorry. As a contributor again, as you see in the TCP client grouping, they are, with features, So it's always the optional to the server if they choose to support the feature or not and it's useful for, in some security contexts where They wanna specify a pinhole and a firewall. If they can know the source address, then it actually enables a much more specific firewall rule to be constructed and I see Thomas nodding his head. Thank you for those support. From the operators. Okay. I I will take this, direction then from the next iterations then. And then, last, open issue also opened by, by Met, that we were not supporting those tags. So a client or a server that supports ipv6 and ipv4 on the same server. So far. I understood that on the TCP 1, they were not supported either. Here, I don't have an answer. For that. I am going to any suggestions or even contributions. Even opinions on on this, should this be in the scope of the draft, out of scope, Any comments Okay. I have more comments. Sorry. As a contributor, but also author of the TCP, client server draft. So I lot of familiarity with this. By dual I think you're referring to, if you have multiple, interfaces Yeah. Yes? Okay. So there was a general, comment many years ago was discussed about VRF's. And has decided to not support VRFs."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "In the core TCP model because they were complex and they could be augmented in by, in ads needed in other cases. So I don't know if that response with regards to VRFs, applies to your comment or a question with dual stacks, but think it's probably a similar statement. Maybe others in the room have Common. Honest, I would, I think I would propose to model after TCP client server. It did exit the ISG review. There were TCP experts that reviewed it. They none of them raised, concern. The fact that dual stack or VRFs were not specifically being supported we have a microphone. Yes. Rob, as a contributor, I I would assume that consistency is a good thing. So I think that's a sense thing to do, and you're, I can say, if you had the issue, we needed to support themselves under Rivera, if you could do that separate way, makes sense, I think so. So keep it simple initially. If it turns out we're wrong, we can always make it more complex, but Otherwise, no. Okay. Very useful comments. Thanks. So that's and that'd be it, for this slide deck. Those are your last flight. Okay. Yeah. Let me Yes. Yeah. Alright. Yeah. So I am also presenting an update for the UTP notif raft So since, last the iteration. We have, the draft has been reviewed by Michael"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "from the transport director interview. There has been some minor issues, but also necessary ones, that has been on on this iteration. And the big the bigger change, I would say it was that, the generic grouping had been moved to a dedicated draft that, I I just present it. What minor issues has been applied so, for example, the space flag to when we are using private media types we are specifying that the private encoding option should be present in the header the message ID, explicitly that can be wrapped around by not fields, are in network by order Setman numbers on the other hand cannot be wrapped around And also that the receivers, of the UDP native should support also the exception of unordered segments. Following the feedback from the last eight year, we have also had a paragraph stating, that this protocol should be used when the notifications are expected to be small. When they are, expected to be larger, please use other protocols such as HTTPS Notif And then, yeah, as I said, we removed the generated grouping from from the draft so far, there are no remaining issues on on this draft, we are waiting for the UDP client server draft, to be finished. On, again, as I said, This impacts also the young model of this draft. There were some decisions that were taking some time long ago, long time ago, about the IP address or the the mandatory, ports So So, yeah,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "welcoming any new feedback, And I also have a slide deck on that Yeah. So right now, how we configure, the UTP native with the find, address and the port. The port is not mandatory. There was an iteration that, we were asking a default port, to Yana. If we use right now the the grouping, the generic grouping, we should ask, for this default port again. And and I I would also welcome would also welcome some comments on the remote address, since we are taking the generic direction of the UDP grouping 1, So Thomas, Yes. Thomas as a co adult. We have now 3 draft documents, UDP Notif to distribute no different, also, the UDP grouping server. Think it would be now the right point maybe to do a final review on all the three drafts. Getting feedback from the working group. and maybe, before the next IETF going going last call. You will see at the very end of the NetComm session, I will showing some of the implementations. Right now, we have several network vendors working on implementations on those costs. Yeah. Well, I think the idea for the chairs and, it can't speak for them, but would be to send the 3 as a cluster. Right? Yes. Sure. There is a sense of urgency to get these through and that's why we've they they been going pretty fast already. Your experience with the IITF is a short tenure. And, if you think it slow. It's not. And this is fast. I do have a question though, as a contributor. Do you have another follow-up? all. Thanks. Thank you. As a contributor, No. That's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "What is the encoding for the payload? For the payload of UDP notice. Yes. Are you passing XML JSON? Seabor? So it's young and coding. We are So we have, 2 types of many types public ones on private ones. Private ones, you can encode whatever you want. And on public ones, you have some allergies on unstable so far. Within the trust. Okay. AMC Boire, you said? Yeah. Okay. Good. Okay. Definitely I think a binary encoding would be important for UDP. And also for HTTPS Notive, but with HTTPS Notive, the media type is, negotiable So, seaborne could also be conveyed, conveyed using HVS Notive, that was Megan. Only comments So, actually, there's a comment in the chat room from West, and he's asking, I was hoping that he would come to the mic himself. That in his mind, the dual stack really the first two IPV 4 and ipv6 configuration. He wasn't sure. Sorry. I can come to the house a bit late, because I was not on the the room, but the discussion on dual stack. In my view, we should I I interpret it as a single interface with both before NV6. And for me, that's we should support that in my view. It's not and for me, I don't see it associated with the VRF necessary. So it's really a single interface where we have both at least one before a month could be more V6 potentially because you typically have linked local addresses and stuff like that. That think that for me should be a default configuration because If you want to support the server with both before NV6, I don't want to end up creating 2 interfaces. I want to basically have one interface on the server and of it being addressable by Boultry 446."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "Yeah. So I think what it means probably is that the address is a list and not necessarily a leaf. Some, right, not a singleton at least. You said it lists, but a list could be more than 2, and we only need it at most 2. I mean, in V6, you have more than 1, by could the because you typically have a link, local address, and then you have maybe a global unique address. Right? So but I I think it should be at least a 1. For but I should be a list in general both, at I say, Okay. Thank you for bringing that. I'm not sure what this means to TC client server. Yeah. at least, But, Uh-huh. I mean, it should be consistent. I agree with that, right? Well, now you get that late. Yeah. That's a bit late. Okay. But, maybe, Consistency was his correctness now with the European plan. I don't know. Can make that change though. So sure. I mean, we are a still on the draft status. Right? But yeah, I would also like some consistency with the with the TCP 1. But Yeah. It's So it shouldn't be an issue. If if this needs to be fixed, then we just fix it and things. And then the AD at the time, which won't be me. Need to make a call whether it needs to come back for, like, a 1 week, last last call review of that change within this working group should be sufficient. So it's only it depends on the size and scope of the change, but I think it needs to be fixed. We can fix it. Have some discussion as to whether it needs to be fixed or not. Okay. Please let's get, contact information, and we'll take it to the list. Okay. Thank you. Alex, is there anything more? Alex? Yeah. No. So here are, yeah, I would love some feedback on the UDP not if young module on on how to address this or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "even if we should also, remove the dependency on the on the on the u d UDP client in grouping braft, since it could be some more specific ones for the UDP notice. So that's it protect Thank you. Oh, got the wrong one. It was the right when I think no. This one. Sorry. Yep. So Yes. I am presenting an update on the Notif Young. So to give you a bit of context, this is regarding the structure of the notification of, Netcon even notifications. Where it is a well defined Hey, Alex. Just so I just quickly just wanted to We're transitioning from chartered drafts to unchartered drafts. This is the first of the presentations for uncharted trips. Yeah. So, yeah, as I saying, this is regarding the notification structure, which is well defined within the 5277 but the thing is that it is defined using a XML schema schema. Therefore, when we are using XML as an encoding, There is no issue validating this message. We since, we have the XML schemer schema. But when we are using other encodings, other young encodings such as, JSON or c bar, there is no young module, defining this schema. So that's a gap that we are fighting against in, in a way, in some projects, for young tutoring."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "And so in this draft, we are defining just, this structure we are updating 50277 and we are using the same URI's and even time leave income and case. So that it's backward compatible to the XML schema from from netconf even notifications. So far, I think it's, the 4th iteration now there are no big changes. We have added, one more XML example. I have been all talking to Karsten from Core Working Group. Regarding the Yang SIT allocation. I understood that, they were not supporting the automatic allocation for young structures. So therefore, right now, we are also proposing a SIP file and a SIP allocation within the draft And, so Excellent. We are requesting more feedback from from the working group. We understood from the last idea that, there was some interest in some interest on filling this gap. So we are requesting, the working group adoption. And, yeah, open to any comments And if not, next, I will will also raise some issues that I found on the notification definition. On the encodings Ahmed. Alright. So, a couple ins here. The first one is, I have checked the code, for LippNet comp too, and they also redefine this XML schema as which is equivalent to yank anyway."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "Are you aware of this implementation? No. That's, a good coming to know. Yeah. And they took a different approach by using a container instead of a structure. So it would be interesting to see the difference is there? Second, it's a follow-up to a question I ask in loss idea about validation, I was really concerned about validation And so I have concerns here. One is in the example you show, the structure doesn't define any kind of leaf, except of event time, but then all of a sudden, content appear in the message. So I'd, maybe other people are, more familiar with how yanks works, but I don't know I don't see the schema allowing for other values to be added. It just appears like that? Is it that because it's a structured for sure to allow any data by default or something else. So the thing is that, the notifications were defined without the structure. So for example, I'm just showing the the slides. On young, 7950, you have a and on the example, you have, the notification container the event time that was defined on the 50 to 77 and then the content. The content of these notification is defined when you are, using the statement notification. What I am defining now is the missing piece of the notification, where in 50 to 77, they defined that there is a time stamp in the notification. That's why I am defining it as a I am defining the type notification from yang I am not finding a new container in a way."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "I see. But you I understand that you're not defining a new container, but it seems you're actually defining it. Like, there is a container identification because it carries payload. That's right. So it seems it's gonna be wrongly defined. One last thing here is, for implementation. You mentioned the end kit. When I looked at the end kit, it doesn't use standard structure implementation. It has a little a little bit more code to be specific for this draft. Is that required from all implementations or just This is how young kids choose to implement it because I'm not sure how stole thermostat Libyank or I equally use it. So for young kids, we are, just giving young kid, the young module as a as an input. To validate the message, basically. Yeah. By the way, yeah. They a have specific code. They have a specific code parsing for that. Yeah. Yeah. For for yeah. For notifications, yes. Yeah. Yeah. So Rob Wilson. Just a quick comment back to Ahmed. I think either concerned about structure was is the fact that that electric field being augmented into that structure, if so, looking, having a quick look at the, RC defines, the structure extension. It also has the ability to augment into that structure. So it defines, augment structure, extension as well. So so that might solve that issue. Otherwise, I think that for me, I think it's really useful to be defining a yang definition for this message. So I think we should sort of adopt this and and I'll progress it in the working group is my view on this, but as a contributor. Well, as a chair, that's exactly what we said last time. In 118, which is why, the IPR call actually Alex forgot to mention. We just did the IPR call, a week ago or 2 weeks ago. And I would have actually kicked off the adoption call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "Prior, but it would have overlapped with this week, and then it seemed messy. So The plan is to kick off the adoption call after, you know, like, next week is we'll kick off the adoption call. Okay. Thanks, Kent. Okay. And, I think that's do you have anything more? More slides, or we're good. So, yeah, since I, I still have some time, also want to raise some issues on the encodings. So as I was saying on XML, there is no issue. There is definition of the, and some explicit examples on the 5277, but also on the young, on how the how to finding on the young and notification and how a Netcon XML notification should put, like, On JSON notifications are not explicitly covered. But somehow they have a non normative, example on the any data, field where there are shown some, not so we can see that there is a notification with the event time also in camel case, following the 50277. But on CBOR, They are not explicitly covered as well and they defined the notification as a container like structure. And in the section 4.5 covering any data statements. The example uses a notification notification as an example. But in this case, they, just showed the CBAR encoding as a, simple container without the IETF notification container and event time lift. So here, since we are kind of fixing, a back on on on netconf notifications, I will also like to clarify with the young civil authors or maybe the, the working group, defining this RFC. If"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "This was, something they wanted. Or it's a bug, an errata here or or how how should we address this, basically? Okay. Well, as a chair, I mean, this changes the scope just slightly from the adoption perspective, but it's still, I think, within the spirit of what is time to be. Achieved. And so it could be worked out as, working group documents at that time. Yeah. Yeah. So that that's all for me. Alright. Thank you. Hello? Yes. Oh, hi. Hi. Yes. We can hear you. Let me Where are you? I'm online. No. I see you. I'm sorry. I'm trying to find you on my screen so I can pass a slight control to you. Zoho. Zhuh0. Yes. I know. Okay. Okay. Your your side control. Yes. Yep. Feet. Thanks. So I'm presenting the 1 version of Draft augmented by attitioning to the IETF Young Library And main changes in this version, including chain updating the title linked documentation to augment its files And we also add a use cases, sections in the draft. And, we also have, young link validations for for the modules in the appendix and, also During the Acton, we have an open source implementation for this feature augment smart lift list in the library in Libyank."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "Ansys Report. So some, backgrounds background informations the motivation for this draft is to provide and these solutions for getting all the, all the undependencies. From the ITP on library defined in RC 85 25. And, this is, the the background is that in the, currently, there is a need for the real time knowledge of human dependencies and it is not possible to do that to get all those information directly from the IETF YAN Library because the augmentation is missing, and the most tricky to dependency to get is the reverse dependency, the division, and the augmentations because they are defined external to the module, but apply internally. And, This is our use cases? Edits, edits, So the first one says the young and Kafka data mesh architectures. Within which the schema registry is introduced between the collector and the data consumers to preserve the Yance schemas so that they're accessible for both. And, to to to build such schema registry, we need for, yeah, all the models and the, that's, concerns in the yamper subscriptions and along with its dependencies, And for the data catalog proposed by Natchel, This is to build a data catalog that provides all the modules and the undependencies so that they are accessible for the clients to, to see. As alternatives, it is, to getting the this Yandapanencies for an IT field library is not the only solutions, we also have to get those schemas and pass the real time pass, the first message we've received in the yan push subscription. But they are not ideal in the data's real time ingestion background."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "For example, for to get oscimod, is way too time comes time consuming. And according to our test, to pro to perform such an executions could take up to 5 minutes And that's, not and not susceptible in, our current background. So its values are quite operas in this regards it is easy to implement with the deviations in the module or a date And it can also provide an easy solution for us to gets all the free young relationships by sending a simple get request to the IT field library. But the questions remains here are, if the deprecated container module states should also be augmented or not. Since the this is this moisture states, container I think it's inherited from the ITT on Library, in RFC 78, 95. But I think I see from the it is still being used. So This is, question remained. And the second question is whether we should the module set name as a key to this is because, according to Jan's comments from the last from the previous versions, some vendors implement the modules into different set and having this module sets name also a key and also the module name as a key could enable that's, augment since the module fund in another set as possible. So, If the if there's a values, then Maybe we should do it or not. But for this one, the there's a Yealink validation example provided in appendix"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "8, and it is showing that currently this is this this This, action is not, but, it's illegal. And then, to make him more obvious. There's here is the tree of the augmented artificial and library. And then it's the Hackton demo that we have done soon but, obviously, this is not updated. The slides is not updated, but, from the picture above is the container module states that has been augmented withening and revision as the key for the other ones, for the I'd say feel lebri in a 525. It is not shown here. But it's available it's in the in my link. So And so the next step I'll say is to solve the questions proposed and then to court for next comfort options. Help, help, you so much. Cance is a contributor. Can you go back to your question slide two questions. There you go. Okay. So for question number 1, Should This draft also augment the depth the the the special module state module. Right? So this would be an NMDA. We call them I forgot the term for the support for, legacy servers, the the Dom support, the MDA, we try to have a a a state module for them, And it I but that whole strategy was some time ago at Benoit. The one that was instrumental in pushing through that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "I mean, I suppose it's still The, I mean, current IETF statements are that server should imp implement NMDA. It's almost gotten to the point where it's expected modules are an MDA compliant. In fact, I don't think IETF would publish a game module that's not MDA compliance. Bomb, So for how long do we continue to try to support legacy non MDA servers. This is a question for ADs. I'll throw out there. Something's probably gonna get me in trouble. That the, key store and trust Door. Graphs, have the ability for Built in Trust Anchors and built in keys. That would be reported is basically config true nodes that are config false values. I mean, reported as, in upstate. In order to Get that, you would have to have implemented the operational state data store. Means you're an NMDA server. So as of right now, the key store and trust for drafts are really, only for, at least if you wish to have built in keys or trusting there, then you need to be an NMDA server. So, anyway, we're kind of in this, it's the same boat. I'll show that we're in the same boat on this one. Benoit speaking. So your assessment is right. So if we look in the industry who's supporting the latest, and MDA ATF ring numbering. There's a mixed. So we could do the right thing and only update 7890 5 and say, you know, if you want to use this while you have to go to an MDA or we could say We update old young library. the How long are you going to do that? So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "It's a direction call. We could go either ways in this draft. I mean, so as a chair. Actually, I'd love to hear from the eighties as well, but as a a chair or computer, but mean, we've we've allowed for almost a, how many years of transition period? It's been, you know, it hasn't been It's not short. Right? So it's been some time, and we can view this as pay for play kind of you know, thing where it's a little minor gentle push, you know, let's let's get NNDA deployed. It's now now's the time. We shouldn't allow for non MDA servers to just run forever. There is just one distinction between the yang modules. There is a yang module that specific, and for which an MBA West. By default, there is the one which is, like, from traditional like this one to do discovery. So maybe a slightly different treatment here. Don't know. You could go either way. Yes. So Rob, I I'm not sure I feel strong on this. I There's, like, a pragmatism that says it's not expensive to add this in. So why would we not do it, I'm not sure this is the thing to make to like, for a stake of the ground for is my personal view, so I would just do it and and it's it's fine. Separated it and not have an issue. I do have some other questions though, first time for those. And that's that, So, as I'm concerned about the idea of getting the augments out from other modules set, I I worry whether that is sort of, effectively doing past a boundary that might not be a good idea to go past. So that I think needs consideration as to whether that's a good idea or not. The other thought I've had is that I can't remember which one of the versioning draft probably the semantic version draft. Also augments in a value into Yang Library."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "I'm wondering whether the version ID, version strength. I'm wondering whether publishing a new this version of it, if young larvae would be a cleaner way to get both of these changes in rather than doing these augmentations. So I think that if we do progress with these, I think we should instead of that as an option. Okay. It's going okay. I had to, points. I mean, I agree that we should currently, continued by doing module state as well. And it's relation to these, should we start to move away from non find implementations. I brought that up in the Netconc next context as well. That's one of my things that I feel we should probably discuss in the next next side of things is do we Do we move from a minor revision change to a major revision change of Netcompton that may be a good boundary point for it That was an option. And then the other one was, the other comment I had was some other Rob's last one, actually, that It it and I haven't read it in details, and maybe I missed something, but it seems that the the approach here was to add the augmented by into Yang Library by an augment itself, which felt like it may be, up it's circular. It might be a better idea to publish a new landlord for me to include this in the same way that deviations is included yes. We are publishing not, Another module is augmented, not itself. Yes. And I, I think maybe my suggestion was that it might be better to publish an update to the Yang Library instead. That's, yeah, that's a really, interesting point. It it would be circular, I I believe. Because then you'd have the dogmeat,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "that the Yang Library is talking to himself at Discover. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Are there are you You're done with the presentation. Right? Yes. Okay. Yeah. Thank for you I'm, very interesting. Let's move on to next slide. Okay. And this goes back to Perth. Past slide control taper. Alright. Q. Yes. So, on behalf of the authors of the list pagination design team. I, present the Spanish and snapshots for young ribbon protocols. And this has been moved out from, technician, set of crafts Okay. So, And it is based on, yeah, as I said, it's based on the work from the list recognition draft. Put in a separate draft, as Shane said, earlier to not impede the list pagination, which is more or less done, but we have, a list of requirements, open questions, that we need to resolve to, have a solution for stop shows. The requirements are I've been identified are this, watch it does not show include the and it has been discussed before. The entire list, I'll take a snapshot of the list case, and so on. How should a snapshot be reduced? So for instance, rest room wouldn't need to be able to address the snapshot between sessions, in some way. During the during a vaccination. And what is the life cycle of the snapshots, and that is not clear either. And need to be worked out. Should they be automatically"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "deallocated after some time out and so on. So continuing how should signal them, maybe signal that, snapshot should be deallocated what happens when a service allocate a snapshot to to resource constraints. Is there a an implicit the allocation when Paganish misfinished. And is the pagination finished when you've reached the last page? Or not. And then security considerations for protecting your lens. Against the night of service and taking many huge snapshots. So the solution overview, this is basically what was in the list pagination drafts, there's a new snapshot query parameter for comms and netcomms. Snapshot support for config false lists and leaflets, And support is signaled to the client not the server supports it. In the, ETF system capabilities, per node capabilities. Is augmented with us, snapshoturally. And there's a yang model to define this for NetCOMF, the query parameter, the commands to to RPC's, error identity, if we recall correctly. It's not just query parameter. Enables clients to request sort of take a snapshot may be supported for conflict falls list leaflets it's default faults And if that's what snapshots is not supported the server then return a snapshot not supported in the error at tag. For Netcon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "the snapshot notice, relief is added to get get configured, get data and we augment this, snapshot parameter grouping. Into this, offices. So this is the snapshot query parameter for Netconff. We add the leaf. To the offices, and then all, ma'am, snapshot leaf into helps have Turnode capabilities, And a snapshot query parameter for restcom, if supported for, and forget and ahead. If there's no support, we a return of 501 not implemented. And set their type application, error tag invalid value, and set error attack is not supported. If it's unsupported, we return bad requests and set Ira tag. Not support it standard stuff. The yang model you have to have this stagnation snapshot has this namespace and the prefix alpha g snap. Introduces our risk of capability that can be, discovered by a client less compliant, So next steps, is to adopt a document if the working group finds it interesting work. Continue work on the open questions and the requirements that have been identified Possibly, thinking hard if there's anything else. That needs to be solved. And request more feedback from the working group. That presentation. Thank you. Questions."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:09",
    "text": "Well, I guess I have a question to the working group, which is, So the snapshot was removed from the list of pagination suite of drafts because one it was complicated, and 2, it was on clear. How strong the support was or the interest was, I should say. So, I mean, we can gauge interest through various mechanisms, you know, adoption call, show of hands, but but but I'm just kinda wondering, is there anyone in the room who's interested? Like, is this actually something that, or, or do you feel like maybe it is not you're interested, but not now. You'd rather get some experience with the that that that you know you know, current sweep of less pagination drafts that are imminent to the last code and then, and then revisit the idea is this too early for its time. Or any thoughts about that? In the room? Joe. Yes. Please, Joe. Joe Clark Sysco. I wasn't really prepared to answer your question, except with a navy. Because as I was listening to this and thinking, okay, you pulled this out of less pagination. Is there something more valuable in an overall operational snapshot of the device. So I get it. You wanna paginate a long list, but maybe there are dependencies in that list in other lists. And what if I want to get like a like, I'm an operator. I wanna see the state of my that I start paginating a list, and I kinda wanna freeze frame the device and look at other other things. I so I I I don't I I I get the questions you have. They're they're deep and and and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "potentially complicated to answer, but I wonder if there's more to this feature that might add more value to for operators. Robleton. So as a contributor, I was just looking at this. Am I concerned with this snapshot especially applies to operational data is what's the cost to implement it. So certainly in the systems I'm aware of, the operational data is heavily distributed across the system. There's no single they'd store the story as and performing a snapshot against that would be would require a lot of code changes everywhere to do it. So or alternatively fetching a lot of data storing in memory for one point of time. So I worry that for large datasets, we simply wouldn't port this anyway and then I wonder how useful is if you if you asked to say snapshot the the rib or something? Is that something that the systems are going to handle or not handle as similar issues occur when looking at yang push when you hit it, it wasn't for like initial sync. With on change events is how do you synchronize those things? Again, it's complicated. True. And, I mean, because it would be a separate draft, servers could choose to implement or not implement presumably come with features as well. The servers could then further refine whether or not they allow snapshotting on just config. We're also on upstate or maybe even for specific lists, you know, as specific list can be snapshotted versus others because you may have a federated database and some of your datas and a database that supports snapshotting natively. And so you can But but other of your data is in a different database. It doesn't, and so you don't want to for there. So presumably, it would be, you know, servers could it opt in to supporting the parts that they choose I guess,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "I mean, so from that perspective, it it it it it you know, you know, you know, implantations would choose to do it only if the demand was there. To the working group would be, is it, maybe Per can express, like, how much more complex complexity is here and to trying to bring this draft you know, to publish it, is it a very complex topic that it would it would it would to get it fully published? Is it something that we should spend working group cycles on So to be totally honest, there's a reason why it was put in a separate draft it was actually a Chifan who asked the last IETF and then all these questions that More presented here, came up in my head at least and this is mostly not from this on the server implementation, but actually how a client would handle it. So most of the server implementation and problems with problems with performance and, size and so on is glanced over really quick, you know, few bullet points. But it's also sort of how how is our client supposed to handle the life cycle of of this snapshot? I think it best Interesting, of course. But, has been stated in the room made denote exactly now. I have no filter. Air pumps, Okay. So this is tough because, that we're both chairs, chairs, and co authors. On this draft. So We may even have to defer to AD to help."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "Which one? Got it? The current the the I'm I'm turning to Mahesh say. follows It it it it the it most. After tomorrow. Well, okay. It doesn't have to be I can say one thing. Short, I would like to the next presentation as well, but really short to conclude this was raised from the working group that it should be worked on. But there has not been that much interest in working on it. So if we should work on this, there will take it to the list and there has to come up some interest there. Okay. Yeah. I think that would make sense. I think it's still a 00 draft. I know the topic itself is not new, but it's still 00 draft. Let it similar for some time and have some discussion. Express. Okay. So we encourage participation. In this work. Yeah. I I know that I was gonna say all almost like the draft for a while and just see how the list pagination goes and maybe bring it back a year's time and see then there'd be more indications to whether it's needed or not. Smartphone Okay. Thank Per. you, We are on time, but just barely. So I'm gonna quickly move to the next slide. Which is also per Yes. Thank you. Yes. I have control. So, quickly to, report back on the netconf next and restconf next work that has been down in working group. So the current statuses that we have had 2 interim meetings, we have formed, design teams, NetComm Next DT, and ResKOP NextDT. They're in still room for more volunteers to work on this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "And wind curve. Encouraged participation. The it so a report from the entry meetings, the issues on GitHub are now on Netconxnextrd34. I'm the last increment was 31. Rest comforts, 15 open issues. And so, a bit in there as well. There are several backwards compatible extensions, in progress. In drafts that we have seen presented here earlier as well. Of Yes, short Yang Next has actually 104, I think open GitHub issues. Currently. And the meeting were, one in December last year in January this year. So the identified categories of work are the street categories backward compatible extensions, which require no protocol upgrade, and there are already ongoing efforts for this that we've seen. 2nd category is minorprotocoloperates, with just made up numbers, version numbers, Netcon 1.2 and Versuscon 1.1. And maybe which would be more or less backwards compatible. And then the last category, the sledgehammer would be a major protocol upgrade. That is most probably or maybe definitely even a non backwards compatible and even requiring the next so the next steps in the work is to, the plan has been to create repositories for minor you know, minor protocol updates and then we'll in the design team's work, non backwards compatible minor protocol updates. Separately. And then that the, design teams can also sort work on major protocol versions. As well as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:04",
    "text": "Volunteers are, encouraged to participate or we need facilitators all of the work, editors for draft, authors and co authors of practice, So please joined the the effort and effort going forward are, and the mailing lists for, the design teams, probably having recurring assigned to meetings, interims, discussing their worked worked worked both status and, direction. These are the main lists. You can find them on on the IETF, mailing lists page, join goals, And I think that, is it. Yeah. Questions. I live This slide open. And if anyone has any questions, yamash, Right. So I I just want to reiterate, Perris Point this is a form the working group by the working group. So the participation has to come from the working group if we want to make progress. And and there's a desire to even have net count next in this context. The question per that I have for you is in terms of the issues that are open Do we have labels so the fact whether they are minor updates or major updates so that people can take stock of what they wanna work on maybe. Yeah. I don't think, every topic or every issue is, classified into those categories yet. So that is also work that needs to be done by the the assigned teams, probably. But it has been started. And many of you have participate in that, but they're still then some the the issues need to be classified still. Okay. Kansas contributor. Can you move to the next slide, I think?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "I should even in control. Thank you. Maybe slide 8. Saturn, One more. I could forget it. I'll just talk to it. Yeah. Very good. You mentioned the the there's, these 3 categories, right, and, and that, yes, that's right. Thank you. For the 3rd category requiring Yang Next. So I just like, Yang next will probably be mentioned in the NetMed meeting on Thursday. But everyone should be aware that that is gonna be a large effort it will take significant amount of time, And so the thinking being is that we could do minor protocol updates, like a net comp 1.2 and a risk comp 1.1. To, you know, in the meanwhile, to resolve a number of the minor issues that are known, but can be resolved in a backwards compatible way. While waiting for Yang next to the finally become ready and and then we move forward with the major vertical updates for NetComm Reskov. So that's kind of the overarching plan. For this work. Okay. Mark Hello, Marc Blasse. I'm not involved in NetConsongeneral, maybe my question will be completely out of scope. But I mean, involved in another project where we would need that's gone forward quick. And I was wondering if that's something that you've been think they saw a draft but not the working group draft. So I was of wondering if there's anything coming in this, in the pipeline about that. Right. The only history that we know of is that the Rafael presented in the quick working group where the JS decided that the draft needed to come to Netcon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "8 the author's never should interest to show up. So maybe if if if if there's interest, someone needs to pick up the draft bring it to the net convert. So, a good question for you. So you said you need net comfort for quick. Can you clarify what the the reasons are, what the benefits you benefits we need to offer. Sure. Sure. So, initiative is about IP And Dibspace. Where you have delays like Minutes, hours. And, therefore, quick with with a few, you know, config, config, you could enable traffic know, quick connections over long delays. And then, you know, then we're looking at you know, having the whole suite of solutions, including network management. Then over quick would be there because Netcon forward TCP doesn't be you know, you know, you know, Waltworth anyway, TCP is out of question and deep space. K. Thank you. Alright. This is our last presentation. It wasn't originally on the on the agenda, but Thomas asked if he could, present some results from the Hackathon last weekend. So Please, you just have 5 minutes. Excellent. Thanks a lot for accommodating, I chose thought, let's present some results from the, the hackathon in terms of the Yang Push. Validation with it on the publisher and the receiver side. So we had 2, network vendor implementations from Sixin and Huawei and an open source implementation, the data collection side from PSAA CCT in a test repository, you will find the test result also the P caps we did during the the hackathon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "That's the document we were presenting this week at NMR showing the overall architecture of the Yang push to Apache Koffka integration and on the right hand side. All the documents, in the networking group, which applying to this architecture and we started to validate in the implementations. Here's an example of the subscription start notification message, which was augmented by supportive host name and sequencing in young notifications. Here here here here Then a second implementation on the support of versioning in young notification. Also subscription startup message And here we have a push update notification rarely, where it's augmented with the host name and sequencing. And the push change update not verification here on top of the support and host names, advancing also the the state change observation time stamping. And that's the overview on the different draft and obviously documents and which vendor applies were. This will be continuously, throughout the next ITF's gonna update that list as we're receiving new, new code And here's just a summary to give an overview on the draft documents we presented at Netconc so far. And, the, the yang push to Kafka. Architect should or after any more I think that's it. Okay. Thank you. I love these hackathon reports. I hope we get more, in future meetings. Thanks. Okay. Alright. Well, I just have a concluding remark, I guess. Which is that I looked at the, history of the document the Netcom document's history. And since 2019. We've only published 3. But"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "Lucky Mahesh. actually, Rob did some of the work, right, Well, We already rubbed there's like, 8 that are move forward with But then if you include the Rob. Rescon client server, not compliant server, the list pagination drafts, the UDP drafts, the trace and, transaction traps. There's easily another Mhmm. 10. That are coming through quickly. So welcome to your, AD shipped. We hope to inter give you an entertaining 1st year. Yep. Hopefully, a lot of these, of course, as Tomas will tell you these are holes that had to be filled To get young push to a state where they were actually workable solutions. So So I'm happy that that work is going on and know, I'm happy to progress these drafts. As soon as possible. Alright. Great. Well, thank you everyone for attending. Good meeting, and, have a good rest of week. And get home Yeah. What about breaking all modules validation Oh, this Okay. Anything that goes down"
  }
]
