[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "welcome everybody to this working group session in the our first session in the afternoon. remind you that you would have also Again, another one tomorrow morning, Unfortunately, I see very a lot of empty seats. I think it's not seems not to be the best time for our session. So just remind you the the rules to contribute to IETF, especially if you are aware of any patent, and you will need to disclose it So you have all the roles there. And we know that we have heated discussions We are all contributing to different drugs. So here, we remind to extend the respect and courtesy to all the people, the discussions keep them, impersonal So just contribute discuss whatever you need. But 8 on overheat. Remember to to sign in, with the with the tool and always all during the KQ, with the button. So don't forget. I hope that now after some some ideas doing that, We are used to that. And the in if you are participating in remote, just checked your audio before, and we always have some troubles when people connect remote, especially I think tomorrow morning, we will have some people participate in remotely. and so remember to check the headset before to show double losing some precious minutes. So here, and please help us. taking the the notes, especially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "in the in the discussions. You have all the materials, the information on in data tracker, and Zulete, Chat So how how we divided the the session. So we have prepared situation with different topics, showed today, we will start there by reviewing the status of all the of all the drafts that we have adopted in the working group. And then we will begin with the with some document that have been done for a very long time that I Hope to go and get them out there soon update of the common gen gen data types, the tunnels, the path computation, and the MBA of the slide service. And tomorrow, we will have a second just focused more all on a Slack team. k. So tomorrow session seems quite quietly in interesting for for the discussions. Then just some some brief later on, Pavan will go through detail of all the all the documents. Matway we have the DBs offers in the RFC 3272, which is already submitted price applications. So it's in the in the next data chat as well as the framework of going for the IETF slices. And, also, so both of them are in the. So I expect soon, I'm not sure we have submitted the the CC use cases. There are of documents which have passed in the the last call, the HPPiano 1 has 1 open issue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "we have the the revised ID already published. So we expect that their error. some discussions here. And that the document just screening system. And we have the the second document is the GMP less controller interwork. it's the the routine directory review has been performed, but the comments are still another So the the offer should updated document as soon as possible. In working group last call status, have the OCTN neutral network junk. So this is the the PR poll is completed, so we will conduct the this will be for the let's call very soon. messaging this after after recession. Then we have had a couple of documents that have been adopted, the network slash application, and the use of the the network. realization of net worth slices with for IP Networks. and the they have the last one, the slice control model, which we are closing the poll for adaption for for this one. k? So so we expect also to to finish it, Sean. The other two documents if Some of them took us some time to work out all the especially the second one to work out all the all the comments that were addressing the last calls. We are re as a reminder, we have The second document has an appendix that contains all the open issues that were raised during the the adoption call that need to be fixed. So I expect that there is the overlap that is we have between these first two documents. it's address. So I expect that the authors talk between them. show the the document the the both documents can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "Polished and we avoid overlaps in terms of the this station. So we have a a couple of liaisons that we have One is the immediate update information on the IME 2020 beyond raw majority study groups. and the second one is within the same plan. So the the response that is coordinated by by Scott. I don't know if he's caught in the room and can want to comment anything about about these 2 lay liaisons, No. No. No. Not yet. So skip that one. And we have an 1, sent byoran, about the transport network slicing, where they are and they are presenting their view on the sizing and they are Oh, sure. day. requesting for comments. It was presented last day in ops it was presented anything made you to answer that. They want to to collaborate in in the answer for I think they they refer to attachment share And I think that that relation was aimed at ops. and these, and these So I hope that we can prepare a coordinated we should be able to prepare a coordinated answer. between between both working groups. So I think it's especially relevant for for Melendron, if you want to add anything on top I have gin gin. You want to to say something? Same from the Yi, you're in queue. Yeah. I think it's remote. Please go ahead. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. So this is in from Huawei and also one of the also for the NPLs and controller in the work So could you go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "to the page 8 Yeah. So for this the JMPS controller into work work document, we have just upload a new version 12 tool result to to to solve all the comments from the reviewers. And we also got the reprior from the reviewer that all the comments had. how the all the issues have been resolved so I think we can move forward. Thank you. you very much. Thank we'll wait to hear back from the reviewer and See what they say. but thank you for the revision. Okay. So, also, again, we remind you that we have a regarding GitHub, we have a GitHub organization. we already have some repositories that have been transferred. Thank you very much. I think this day. at least the path computation 1, and it's another one that we're at the resume, so I still we have still a lot of ADs that the that they have their own private jets, so I encourage others to a transferred and repository and to to keep it Therefore, for the rest. of the life of the project. Okay. So here, again, remind you that did have is a good place to have it, but discussions and consensus is on the list. So just the Justin. remind that. And remember to use the the main in this, and that we can half interims for topics that are required. Okay? So if any of the topics need to progress and need to just have these special sessions. We are open to to them to them Also, ask if you need periodic calls, for example, like, we have a now a couple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "of them for the CTM BOE, have another one for the update of the the models, So if you require more, yes, Ask column. for those. And, finally, is remind to and then disclose the APR as as possible. So whenever we are going to a, move or to adopt a working remote document. we conduct this this poll. k. But and we need the answer for everybody. So everybody so be careful just adding contributors by the that just by any contributors because you have to get the answer for everybody for the APR, statement. So Alain. Yeah. It's still there. k. time. now. So Yes. from Mhmm. Next on the agenda is working group document status. The last time we flashed our summary slide, it was pointed out that It wasn't the slide wasn't being fair to those who are color blind. point noted, we did try to that by adding superscript suffixes to relevant items to reflect what the color is implying. we do hope that this more inclusive than what it was last time around. v, We do have 3 documents that are in the public requested state of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "A couple of them as Oscar noted in the previous deck are with on under ISG evaluation right now. We have 5 documents, that are an agenda this week. 4 of those are an agenda today. So that leaves us with 19 documents. And the status of each of those 19 documents is Uh-huh. is covered in the slide deck. It's I mean, that I said, there are a total of 27 documents here. a long list. We would be making a conservative to move things along over the next few months. There are a fair number of young modeling documents up. that have been almost ready for quite some time now, and they require a final sprint or 2 before they can cross the line. So it'd be looking had some quality reviews to come in. as we line these up for last call the quality gates for publication, request to state have gone up. So be welcome as many reviews as we can get for young documents because they tend to take a while. I wouldn't be walking through the status each and every one of those documents. As usual, I would double click on a select view and dwell on them. these are documents that we believe need some immediate attention. So let me jump to for the rest of the documents, you can go through the slides You can check the status reports that are sent to the list and then ask questions here, if any. So that's it. Let me jump to slide 7. Okay. Yes. there? Alright. Eric, Do you have a question? Yeah. Just tell them to Okay. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "let's go to slide 7. So This is the ACT in Vianyan document. the preworking group last call API pool for this is complete. We have all the responses from everyone whose responses were required. We do intend to start a last call for this. Hopefully, next week, It will probably be a slightly longer last call than usual. trying to account for folks regarding from a very hectic IT of week. So but nevertheless, please do review it and then patient of last call. And if you have any questions, concerns, or editorial sessions, please do reach out to the authors on the list, and I'm sure they'd be happy commentators. Let's go to slide 9. So this is the document that talks about applicability of ACT into network slicing. In the last meeting, the authors did say that they were one minor issue away from calling it ready for last call. There was also some discussion later on in the session last time around. about incorporating some text from a different document into this working to product a draft. Is there anybody here that can provide a quick update on where things stand It's Adrian Farrell. I think the the the text from another document thing was actually in the opposite direction. It's for Lewis' document on whatever it is. Sorry. It's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Jet labor clock. So, Lewis, is on the agenda I think. Yeah. But the conclusion, we had a we had a look. and conclusion was that there was nothing to add to this document because this doc ment is scoped only for ACTM. and there might be the need to add maybe a little bit of tech to the other document just to bolster it, but certainly no scope for merging. k. So summary, think it's done, ready to go. Okay. Do you know anything about the or or issue that the OT and slicing authors had brought up and Dan said, he needed to make a tweak or 2 before we can progress. We'll follow it up on this. Yeah. I can't I can't recall what the conclusion was. It was looked at, but I can't recall. Thank you. let's go to slide 9, I'll put in my Let's jump to 11. That's Okay? of Good. Good. Yeah. I was trying to I apologize because I was late. Yeah. Because Like, I mean, the the the it was from Adrian, yeah, that that is the case. We were considering in in in the draft, Berguja, and so was I need to merge in with the other graph. That was the story, not with ACTM. So we understand that will be more coherence in in that other merchant. Sorry. k. We'll discuss this that in tomorrow's session. Thanks. the g mplus controller interface document, we did discuss that in the previous deck, he did point it out that she published something earlier in the week that is supposed to have addressed all the direct at review comments. We will review those reach out to the reviewer and make sure that those are covered and then progress to the next step. Let's go to slide 13."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "k. This is the document that talks about realizing network licensing in IPmp less networks using network resource partitions. They're haven't been any changes made to the documents since the last time, but we did want to draw your attention to this document because There have been a fair number of questions coming in related to NRP realization. especially from folks in other working groups where NRP specific extensions are being proposed. we are looking at this document and then it and the NRP scalability document to capture and clarify any NRP realization aspects. So we do have a 20 minute slot set aside tomorrow to discuss NRP scalability. Adrian did send out some text earlier this week that should be a good fodder for tomorrow's discussion, so please do review that text and anticipation of what we'll discuss tomorrow. We are also hoping that by the end of this discussion, both on the list and the session tomorrow, we would be able to determine what sort of NRP extensions need to get progressed both here as well as in other working groups. Let's go to 14 This is the service function of a topology model draft As per the latest status, there are no pending issues. So we'll work with our and see if we can line this up for our last call in the coming weeks. So please do review it in and ex patient of the last call as well. those are the documents that we wanted to draw your attention to. They're So Like I said, there are a fair number of modeling documents, especially the RSVP model drafts, the topology augmentation drafts that are almost ready. So Please do, again, It's a plea to get more reviews for these documents."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "Any questions on the ones that we just covered or any of the other working group documents. Okay. we can get started with our first presenter Italo. He'll be talking about 8776 Thank you. I'm Mr. Abuuzzi from Huawei, presenting on behalf of CORE to shop the SMS 6 update. Next slide, please. Okay. We did some changes from the version 02, which presented last IETF. We are now in version 06. And what we have discussed was a some resolution of a working group last call comment raised by Chaudh. on the t tunnel, and we now allow for the t tunnel topology to use either 83 45 identifiers or 87, 95, actually, there is type of identifiers. So we we have some some identify the the the know the links in the topology can identify the other using ID in entity 45 or the methodology IDs in the 795. And when you set up a time and you can sell select 1 that you are both as identifier. Then we clean up we discuss some of the resource, the completion or resource with a view of the entities that were defined, and we found some minor issues we ping up all of them, and we will see later on some details. And we have aligned issue for the value of the batch size with what has been done in other IT is, as a consequence of that alignment, we are using UX 64, and we removed They're bearing a scientific notation at a time, which is no longer needed. And finally, we updated the Autos list to comply. We are is 7332 requirement. Next slide is So what was the comment from Sother is about the fact that if you look to the know the links animation points in the network topology in topology models who have different types of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "fires. For example, for the node that you have the node ID, the finite 345, which is a URI, and you have the t node ID, which is a dot tech word defined by 8795. So the the proposal was follow the the usage of either of the choose schema. And the resolution was to allow both So we add what we have added. We have added both for it to topology, no, the link NTP. Sorry. They they both identify as optional. So you can specify other one or the other or both. and when there was a master. So monetary statement that says, disintified must be stratified. We a mass statement to make sure that at least one of the 2 options is used. Next slide. For the pack of putation, what we did, we look at at a at a list the calculation of all resource, we aligned the the those were already defined by Ayanna. We aligned them with a definition in Ayanna. and we added a reference to Diane assignment to easy track the source of the the the requirement for the entity fire. We found that 1 in entity was duplicated. So we removed the the duplicated entity. And we found that there are some error reasons which are useful for a young model, but not finding Ayala because we're for p supper. And so what we did create that these you know, that is we are create also some and, again, we share as a sort, non dependent server because for from and perspective, you want to say I don't want to tell you whether my Architecture is a hierarchical PC or BRPC. I want to tell you that there is some issue in the dependency without being specific. So the 2 identities which are in a yeah. Now are derived from this one because it's most specific information on the same type of error. Next slide. And for the best size, we did some survey with different terraces in the ATF, and we noticed that in most of the cases,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "the bandwidth is defined as a u Sixty 4. And so we decided to to align with them, so to define the CIR, CVS, PRR and p p and PPS SUE 64 instead of very scientific notation. And the units, we we decide to use bits per second, which we seems that one of the most used measurement unit for the rates and bytes for the bar size. Next slide. Okay. So we think we addressed all the issue that were open. So there are no more issues open for the draft. We think that we are now ready for a working group last call, and we suggest to make it to join with a t tunnel and part competition model, which are dependent from this stuff so we can make sure that it documents progresses in parallel together. That's all. Thank you. Any questions? If you have objections, we'd like to hear about them now. Thank you. Good. Thank you. salad Okay. Hi, everyone. My name is Tarsat. And I'm going to give you an update on this document that defines a data model for traffic engineering tunnels, OSPs, and interfaces. This is on the behalf of the quarter. this document is one of those that was mentioned has been on our plate for a while, There is a bit of history there. So I'm gonna go over the progression of the document and and signal towards the end."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "the the the office perspective. So this the most recent progression for this draft it was before going on to the the steps. Let me just reiterate the document defines 2 doc 2 modules, one for modeling elements that can manage traffic engineering objects of the device, and the other module covers elements that are on the device. This document had went went through the working group last call back last year, we received comments was reviewed, and we received comments. The authors worked on addressing those, and we published The most recent revision is 33. And we also made some updates to the data model, and we'll go over And a high level overview of the changes. Next slide, please. In terms of the comments we got during the working group last call, So the the document was reviewed by Adrian Farrell, and let me take this opportunity to thank him for the thorough review and the many comments that he had raised without going into the different comments which vary wide from next to more detailed. We had try to address all of those comments in the latest revision And then we also got the document reviewed by Tom Patch, and we got more comments from him specifically on groupings that were defined, but used once in the data model from the first site, one would think it's the first it's used once, but These groupings were defined to be used by external modules,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "So for those we kept them, we're not opting out of this. The others, we did address the comment by spending the grouping and making it more easy to understand. So we the other comment was to make sure that the three snippets that we had in the documents are up up up to date, and that was done. We try to make the tree which is very long. and we have it in a specific section, more easy to be understood, by summarizing some of the elements into groupings, and, hopefully, that will make it easier. Next slide, please. In terms of updates that we've made in the last revision, those besides the con addressing the comments, There were a bunch of them, and I don't want to go into each and every one of them. But we did try to align to the the t types of date that Italo had presented just a little while ago. we have pushed some of the elements that we're in our data model into the key types because they belong there. And this is this is why we'd like the 2 documents to progress together because they have a dependency now. Otherwise, the rest I will leave for The interested part is to go over the updates and let us know if you have any concerns. Next slide's fees. In terms of steps. The authors do believe right now the document is stable, and can progress in whichever way that chairs the c fit to the next step. the publication. Thank you. k. So any comment for the on any of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "updates that have been done because with this, we can consider the document in scope. -- true. This is how the opinion of the office. Yeah. then. 10 year. Daniel, so Are you confident that this will be concluded soon because if this is stopping at 2 3d documents in Ccamper that had been all the for for a while. which should be almost ready. So just just asking if if you believe that this will be close this sooner. So Arthur's perspective, we actually welcome reviews and comments to make the better. But from our perspective, we think it's it's ready to progress. Okay. Reviews and comments are always welcome. Okay. Okay. before I release a 9 293, it should be ready from a chair perspective, we're happy to see this done. Indeed. I mean, there are other documents depending on this, so we understand that. Thank you. Sergio. Good evening. Sergio Bellotti from Nokia. I'm going to make an update or the status of pack computation, RPC. on behalf of the other converters. Okay. The the here are the summary of the changes we made the from version 18 that back, yeah, it was a a a first working group last call. We we we addressed the the comments or the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "working group last call received from Drew and Tom Patch. Basically, we clarify that This RPC is a rep CPAP computation is our limitation of their f p RPC that is defined at the tunnel with a sole working group last call, comment on the as fact, object object function, and we aligned the JSON example with the 1 have been presented in the Tietana. We basically align the the document with the new RC 8776 update. and the a tunnel. In particularly, we define change the definition of the tunnel action type We removed the coroutine leak from secondary added preference for the secondary reverse All this stuff is in the alignment with the Tietaner. We addressed post the working group last call, we have a couple of slides on the on that point. and we made a editorial cleanup update autos updated their reference to rsc80 776. bees, and also make the folding of the a young three diagram. Next, please okay we so did the computation can be different depending of how the order of the request typically, for example, the remaining bandwidth. So the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "one request can be feasible in 1 hour then and not in another one. we got a a request from Morange, asking for my introduction of an index in the an order list that we have of the request. We could avoid that exploiting the ordering by user, by young, but that would need to have disorder any time. So we decided to to to follow what is done in TCEP, in RCA 5440 0. and adding the priority lift as there was a priority flag in the Picep. and add a a young feature compute priority indicating that the server support the the the the the path computation request priority. Next. with this modification, we got a comment from one of the contributors Cargo related to a sec Sean Sean that is in the preset. and related to the usage of priority And with the some pro potential problem of security. and the suggestion to have a shipping policy mechanism is in the related to implementation. related to that comment, we added some text in which we stated that RPC define is can also be used by for denial service attack."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "And And the the the the security consideration defines in RFC 5440 can be applied also in the case of discrepancy. but we also added the definition of possible mechanism for input shipping policy are out of scope. these documents. Next, please. So we I think that all the working group last call comments have been addressed We have no pending issue also in the GitHub. And we think that the autos think that the draft is now ready for the second working group last call. And the suggestion, since the restricted relationship is to follow maybe a time frame alignment with tiered types. and the Okay. So content wise, there is nothing more to add just to keep the the important the only thing it needs to the junk perspective needs to be aligned with the t tunnel and t types. But content wise, there is If possible, nothing more that the ME Ultra wants to to add or rise. So Comments, next. Thank you. Thank to you. Thank you, Sergio. razor. Thinker. We're down to our last presentation. We might have some time towards the end."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "but we do have some buffer in tomorrow's session as well. So we will see how much time we have left at the end. Hello, everyone. My name is. from CNO. on behalf of my coaltors going to present the progress has been done network slice NBIA. Next, please. We went through lots of comment for likes few months since IETF 1 16. In summary, we cover majority of the comments that has been done has been asked And this is a short summary of those. there was some comment about isolation in blast the ATF And we removed the text, which was the controversial shell and we change the the type to identical ref to basically add other isolation type if it's needed, you know, going forward, the future, There was some comment about the separation of a slow a silly policy into 2 separate ones. It used to be 1 So, again, these are some minor changes that has been done. we are still working on some comments that about the attachment circuit attributes. since there is a draft from MET on the attachment circuit and at attachments you get as a service. So we try to align with that and incorporate that is still some of the minor thing is in progress, but that thing has been done. There was some improvement that we've done on the definition, And last but not least, some of the then leaf type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:04",
    "text": "was asked to change and we changed it, you know, to the gauge 64, for example, in sulfur specific type from the key. and there is a GitHub for all details But Any other comments also is welcome, but all the details has been posted there. In next two slides, if you go to the Next slide, I go through 2 issues that I wanna go some more data, The first issue is about the topology. if I don't know if you remember in 150, there was some comment about adding some level of the apology to NBI Obviously, it's not that detailed apology, but rather virtual or tried apology to to give the ability for NBI to address not only the connectivity, which is needed for the network and slice service, but specifying some level of the topology if it's needed. So we added that apology just to reference the topology that the but the since then, there are a couple of the other draft, and you will see one of them tomorrow, Iowa is going to talk about that in the context of the o ten slicing and how we can make this logic more generic And the whole idea here is that the The address that one today with adding a to a topology, which is defined out of a scope of that. This document But going forward, it is better to define the topology somewhere else, we remove the topology from here, and we augment this model if it is needed using that topology that I was going to talk. The the the general logic is if somebody wants to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "address the connectivity from point a tobstponeob they should have the ability for each connection to say do that and as a result. And by the way, use this specific path if you want. So we can talk about that one tomorrow when you see the the presentation from Iowa. From the ultra perspective, we don't have any specific tendency to either all. But but Let's have that discussion and come up with the proposal, and we are as I mentioned that we are okay with either one, and we feel that Iowa's proposal also is acceptable because it's giving the ability to go through each connection at the connection, like, not the at the network slice. Like, we can go to the next slide, which is talking about the second issue for TPQS attribute. This is raised by MET, again, this one is something that I I wanna bring the awareness, and we wanna get the working group opinion about the way that we have it today On the left hand side, this is the way that we are defining QoS today. On the right hand side, this is a suggestion that we need more attribute to be given at the QS level. But the The question that I have, if we go that way, you know, we bring more detail, and sometimes that might contracted with the idea of the technology agnostic and abstraction that But, again, I bring this one here that either or is fine. If we wanna go through the more detail for QS, we are open to any suggestion and any comments or welcome. And with that one, I can conclude in the next slide that We are obviously, ready for more comments And we feel that addressing those few small issue that I mentioned in the previous slides, giving the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "that that we are ready for the working group last call. think no. I I think we have enough time to go through the detail there is any question, but more than welcome to hear than hear. And Thank you. We have time. Yeah. So, yeah, definitely, we have time to go through a let's start with the first one. Can we go to the slide that talks about the reference? topology. So the the you're basically saying with the ref, you should be able to reference any type of topology. A customized apology and that customized apology can also be potentially the one that I would be presenting tomorrow. Is that The way that we have it right now, in our model, we are referring to a topology. We have that one at the network slice layer, not at the connection layer. if, for example, somebody wants to create a connectivity between SDP 1 and 2. Let's say I have a 100 SSTPs. I wanna create connectivity between Some of them with a specific path in mind. If you wanna do it that way with the model that we today, we cannot do it because we're just referencing the entire apology. you wanna go that way, we have to come up with the solution that I was Iva has a model for their topology. they take that 1 and argument our model. And when they want to create the connectivity, they can specify their path as well. So with this way, where basically we can address both, but I what can give more detail on that one if 8 8 8 Yeah. I work here a future week. So, yeah, as Reza said, we have another IT for you know, proposing a top part a a model for customized topologies. And in of you having the NSNBI as the base model by by including a customized topology reference, but without"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "specifying in how to use it. it's probably of of of less value. So what I would tend to think is it might be better off to make a clear cut and just move the policy reference into the technology drafted that I was referring to. basically, if you are focusing on just connectivity based network slices, you could you that just implement to the the base model. whereas if you wanted to reference the implement a topology a solution, you could go off with the augmented version. with the topology definition as well as the reference in there. that's a slide reference, but we could we could also discuss that on tomorrow. One more thing that I cannot to this discussion is because there is a routine and slicing as well. and they will use the that apology as well. So with this way, we are basically removing the dependency of this document, which is almost ready for the last call, with some document we are not ready And you had a good chart last time that shows the correlation between Athena slice, and Vienna slice, this new and how they can be related. Maybe you can describe that one tomorrow as well -- Right. -- and we can make a decision. not Boys and q, I think I understand. I was I was have to speak up about EBIT. You Okay. Can you hear me better? Is this better? Yeah. Not better. Yeah. Good. Okay. So, I I mean, we also received some other common from math, He's suggesting that, like, a step draft that SAP Network can also be Like, the candidate customized topology."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "So in that way, I'm not sure whether I was like, their draft can cover the zap, as one of their customized apology. So I think this needs more discussion. Hi. I work in. So, yeah, I'm the CEP topology that you are referring to. I think it's more defining a model for the provided to expose to the customer what are available steps within the network. where we are talking about this customized apology that the customer himself, is defining and serve as an input to the provider. So I think there are probably different we can. Yeah. Maybe, Sarah. You know, if you wanna add anything. So maybe we can have this discussion tomorrow when we know the the your presentation. So comparison of Draf Liu with existing models, we can keep that discussion tomorrow. We think we have ample time to cover that. Okay. with respect to this particular draft, your proposal, if I understood. Right? is not to change anything. There is a topology lab that already exists. Mhmm. Is that true? If we go we are retaining it. with whatever the Iowa is going to propose, We are going to remove the reference to a topology in our draft. And whoever wants to use that 1, they should do the augmentation. So that is a change that we have to do, but depends if we are said whatever he is going to propose tomorrow is acceptable, you know, to everyone. I think there is a little bit let me add through If we go by the proposal which is on the slide, our aim was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "to keep it. I think maybe we have among the authors really disagreement on that factor itself. at the at the point which I think Bo was also making, that should this model dictate what happens. If we keep it a simple reference to a network, whatever it come up be, whether it is VN, whether it is SAP, whether it is something else, This model can still be used that's the common place where you attach a custom topology. whatever that young model is, and that's how we envision it. so that we can move forward with this and whatever mechanism comes up can still happen. So I think Bose and mind preference would be to keep it. maybe resist for places to remove it. But that discussion, we can No. I said there are all these options, and, definitely, these are the things that since we are talking about a draft that is not presented yet. It's better to have this particular I'm open to any it, as you mentioned, that that is totally another solution that we cannot other comments? Any feet alone. Thank you, I think it's still better to remove it because at this moment in time is not very clear from this draft what this reference is doing. une, It's not clear what is the interpretation of this reference. I have a point of to somewhere what is the semantics of this pointer is not described, is not clear, and I mean, and myself are getting every time confused. And when I look, for example, and in in the Ruffer of Iowa. Iowa is describing the semantic the reference, and and you can see that the reference the customized apology is per connectivity construct. Because on every connectivity cluster, you want to give some part constraints, and every part constraints can reference different customized apology. that that you say, what we are pointing a wire pointing. So the pointer as a semantic on in which context or which topology customized apology, you want to create a Paco Sales. Here, I see that there is a reference between a a metal slicer that apology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "I don't understand from this draft, but what this this reference. Everybody has its own interpretation, which means that from an implementation perspective, be an nightmare because vendor a will implement the reference with the same anti k. vendor b will implement reference with the semantic b, and then the user will will configure the reference with the semantic see and create a confusion. So I think we either clarify what is the semantic of this reference or we better remove we have a better understanding of how to support the customized topology. We just closed the discussion, but might I have one suggestion. one answer and one suggestion. Suggestion is to wait for tomorrow as well the answer is we can when you say what it means, if you have the topology here, it means that, you know, we don't go for semantic of each connection for STP to STP connectivity through the path. but we can specify at least the network which most likely is subset of the any network, and we are creating the connectivity there. But let's go, but, yeah, wait for that to see if the that watch is the outcome of the tomorrow's presentation, and we can close on that one and definitely. This is something that it's need to be closed before doing the last call for this draft. Just just one comment regarding regarding this. I guess that what what you or we are gonna have one dedicated document just to requesting this customized topologies on request data. Here in in this trap, you don't enter into how you wanna build it. Right? So if this is, let's say, out of scope of of here, I mean, I I feel that you can do everything in the in the new document that you say, okay. Here, we're gonna how do we learn from even if it's just a a simple reference, adding that one, maybe just just telling people what what does it mean to create a customized topology. You can create"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "our our our document just dedicated to how to build in customized topology and leap this out of here because here, you are not telling what to do how to enter whenever we try Yeah. Yeah. Completely through here, Yeah. basically, what we were doing our thinking was, like, in various young models, we have done is created an empty container and said that this is the place you come and hang things in future so that you don't go and augment things in a totally different way somewhere else. it was just that that we don't wanna discuss this here, but this is the place. This is a reference to a generic apology. IETF Network, everything. All topologies are this. based on the network type inside this, You can easily figure it out whether it's our way of doing the end way of doing something else we are doing, So that was our thinking. If that's causing confusion, I don't wanna the die on this hill, which is becoming a thing. No. My my -- So but that's where the authors were coming from. Yeah. But, for example, imagine imagine if I if someone at some point says No, no, but I want to. send a list of the potential topologies. Because maybe I send you 2 or 3, and then went into this phase where we can build. something more complex, which I don't know if now we are gonna have them. So, okay, worst case scenario, what happen that you need to do augmentation later. Right? That's what instead of having it in clean. Right? So I think you can solve if you are gonna work on it and you are gonna spend effort on cycles in working that or not you or some but people is willing to spend it for in that. My first role opinion, maybe we can talk about it as well. that we can go with both solution at the same time. We can keep the reference here. For some of the use cases, this might be enough. But for some other, if there is a augmentation needed somebody can take your model and augment the this model inside that and go through the more detail. But anyway, let's have discussion tomorrow. Maybe we can have a site"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "discussion before that as well to come up with more concrete answers. Thank you very much. Yeah. Okay. Go go ahead, please. Yeah. I I have one more thing to add is that because our like, slight service model right now, we also, like, reference attachment, Circate services, So that means that attachment circuit says service could be, like, prebuilt before extra service So Like, I I think we need more discussion whether, like, if AC service can like like like like also previewed on that app or some other topologies? In that way, still, there are some pre I mean, I was they propose some prebuilt topology, but we think and not prep with the policy that customer topology referring referred to some preview topologies. So such as, like, something Zap draft has proposed. So that one. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Can you go to the next We still have 3 minutes, so he's he's in a question on this. So in the current model, you have reference to the local policy. Right? the cost policy name streams. Okay. Good. Just previous comment that Drew made, I think, is is pretty good. Pretty good. it. in the past when we've Wanted to allow give direction on on augmentation. We've actually said had a specific section on how to do that. And left a container there. So having that approach is perhaps a good way forward. and we can talk about it more tomorrow."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "but -- Sure. -- think about that that -- Definitely. -- in the past. Yeah. Okay. No. With respect to the custom cost policy, So that is being do away with. Is that the proposal? The left is a existing one, but it was asked that if we can extend that to the right hand side. You know, right, has the more attributes as as you see here. Now it's based on not only QoS, but based on costs as well per costs, we are defining the QoS. So this is more detail than the right left hand side. It's been a while since I looked at 9291. Is there a way to reference locally configured policy. I think so. This comment from Med, I don't know. It this I I Because it seems like you are losing that flexibility now. give him you move the bot, the flexibility to to reference a local policy. or a or a custom defined policy? No. No. No. This is not those policy that you are that this is not as low as the late policy if you are referring to that. If I miss the your question. No. The interpret string. The cost policy name, which is string. Mhmm. That is it's not a leaf ref, but it is referencing to some see that exists on the device. Right? Oh, okay. So you're saying that is removed. You don't seem to have that in you. Okay. Maybe book and comment on that one as well. But but the idea here is before she added the idea is whether or not we can extend the left hand side to per cost COS as well. So this is the idea of the right hand side. If there is something missing, we will add that one as well. But this is the do we need in this model, QOS bears on cost as well or not? It's basically a dead we can have that discussion more or less. We I have blue. I have blue. So we've actually done a pretty good job filling our time. Bo, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "see you're in queue. Maybe we'll have some time tomorrow. at the end of the session. But one thing on all of these documents there's more than 5 authors And the ISG has said they're gonna be really tough on any document that has more than 5 authors. So this is a comment, and I'm only this one. all the the documents we've heard that are ready for last call, make sure you're down to 5. please. Please. Mhmm. Or -- Yeah. The peanut gallery, otherwise known as our ID, has said we if we wanna go lower, we can do that. the editor. Thank thank you thank you all for a very good session. We'll see you tomorrow morning. Sorry about that, Bo. Yes. We are in a different room tomorrow. Okay? wrong. Yeah. That's the remind remind So Next year. I call so you said that the the guideline for these things is that one thing is the placeholder, container of this folder, which is okay. But right right right a section. But if you need to do this type of thing, and I think the base fee It's a it's And also and all yeah. And also had direction on how to"
  }
]
