[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:27",
    "text": "all right I think it is our time to begin good morning everyone welcome to AI ppm in ITF 103 here in Bangkok if you are looking for a ppm you\u0027re in the right place if you\u0027re not you can stay here and join us anyway so I am Tommy poly I am one of your new co-chairs I am here on behalf of Bill and Brian as well or both able to be here and I\u0027m sure we all wish Brian the best with his family here is the note well if you\u0027re here yesterday I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve seen this before but please do note well and the blue sheets should be new sheets are going around so we have a fairly full agenda we do have a lot more time than we did so we have a fairly full agenda we have a lot of working group document updates as well as a bunch of lightning talks thank you everyone for that I just want to give a quick update on some of our working group document statuses right now so we have the two three three zero ipv6 document which had been in off 48 we actually have moved to all 48 done it\u0027s fully approved and so that will be RFC 84-68 quite shortly we also still have the tea lamp being document waiting in mr. F for the other documents to come through so that\u0027s fine we have the tea lamp test document got some ad comments from area I think that has been updated now and I I think we\u0027re just going to wait for another approval from that and that should be good and since last time now that we have more documents coming out of the queue we have adopted a new document so we\u0027ve adopted the multi-point Altmark document so thank you everyone for chiming in on that that was a good amount of feedback right so here is our agenda please bash it if you need to so we\u0027re gonna be we have the Welcome right now I\u0027m gonna briefly mention something about github and how we can have people contribute in a more open area that would be great to do a Liz going to give us some liaison updates and then we are going to go through our documents in the working group so we have those here these are all the active ones that we have along with the newly adopted document and then we have a bunch of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:27",
    "text": "requests for lightning talks because we have limited time I really do request that these be limited to just around five minutes per person some of these have more slides probably then we\u0027ll fit in five minutes so if you can trim down your content or give us the correct highlight reel that would be fantastic all right so just one quick update about how we can collaborate and share the work and work together on this there\u0027s been of course more of a push for using github in working groups I know that some of the documents that people are working on or are already in various kind of separate github repos we do have a IPM official repo but it\u0027s as you can see from the image here fairly sparse right now and there\u0027s really nothing in it but I do want to highlight that there is this home for documents here so I think some of the IOM documents are are are already on github and so I think you\u0027d be great if some of these could kind of come into the shared working group area so that as people are coming and going and working on different stuff we have a place so you can see these documents and a place for other people in the working group to contribute and give comments one quick one coming we thought about moving the problem with that is we\u0027re losing all history right if we move s\u0027okay can just pull the documents across so I think there are ways so there\u0027s actually various strategies and stuff documented here just go go you can look at these slides and follow these links and we can follow up offline okay I think there are very strategies for how to set up your repo and also how to migrate what you have and essentially have it show up under the umbrella of the entire group so essentially anyone who is a document author or especially if you\u0027re starting new work and you\u0027d like it to be considered by the working group I invite you to please come work on that alright so moving on if there\u0027s no any agenda bashing we can jump right in I think the first thing we have is our liaison statements from okay so it\u0027s liaison time this is the kind of thing we do when we behave as a real standards body we we get that didn\u0027t work oh it goes like this there we go we occasionally get communications from other standards bodies and we read them and we take action whatever\u0027s needed and we respond back so very quickly there\u0027s a liaison that ended up in the liaison data tracker there\u0027s a link for it there and there\u0027s a huge number of standards bodies included in this liaison including us in IPM but also a couple of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:31",
    "text": "different Etsy standards groups a couple of different itu-t study groups a couple of let\u0027s say I eat EF BBF maybe even some others some other organizations so that the whole idea of this is to try to harmonize this idea of measuring internet performance particularly speed and latency across many different standards bodies I talked to a couple of people about this this morning at least Leslie Daigle and Dave ran and Dave ran said we we\u0027ve struggled with this long enough that maybe now people are willing to come together about it and we also have an idea that if we evaluate different methods of measurement against a ground truth a calibrated path that we can really know something about how these measurements work so let\u0027s hope that these concepts are valuable and that we can make some progress in this topic so you can see that from itu-t where this liaison comes from I al Morton and my friend Ruettiger gibe are the co-editors of a section of the IP performance metrics recommendation there which we\u0027re planning to update with an evaluation plan and improving the metrics that are there as well so here\u0027s the evaluation plan the pretty picture of what we\u0027re going to do this is phase one where we\u0027re recognizing that access speeds are moving into the gigabit range and also having very low latency we are seeing companies like Comcast in the United States announcing that they\u0027ve got 60 million homes where they\u0027re offering gigabit internet access twenty-five years ago all the cable companies in the United States were offering television service to 60 million homes now that\u0027s the contrast and that doesn\u0027t even include 80s I don\u0027t know 15 cities with gigapower and and other offers as well so this is coming and it\u0027s coming fast now what happens when that happens when we get to gigabit today\u0027s access test methods whether using end times TCP to connections they are not going to be able to keep up with this that\u0027s a pretty safe bet but let\u0027s find out let\u0027s evaluate it and and and there\u0027s also a crossover in the benchmarking world benchmarking methodology working group that\u0027s the group I chair we\u0027ve been doing this for years with UDP streams measuring gigabits and gigabits and doing it accurately and so we\u0027re we\u0027re not afraid of trying this in the production network with a couple of caveats we know that we have to put limits on the amount of traffic we send and therefore the amount of congestion we caused it\u0027s got to be a short test and all those sorts of things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:31",
    "text": "but we\u0027ve got new robust search algorithms that will let us encounter the problems that we get in a production world and and live through that searching for the the maximum level maximum Warford load so we\u0027ve done some testing we\u0027ve replaced the the access pipe the big blue access pipe there with a host a couple of physical ports on it we\u0027ve got a traffic shaper on both sides on egress and running the traffic through a V switch we\u0027ve got a test device they\u0027re basically running the the test streams and lo and behold we got very good results with UDP testing and our new search algorithms we need to get iperf working in the same environment so we can test the time simultaneous TCP streams but this is the quick calibration here we\u0027ve got the device under test with our ground truth at a hundred or two hundred milliseconds and those are the values we measured 100.5 201 in a laboratory we should be able to do this but I\u0027ll bet there\u0027s gonna be methods of measurement that don\u0027t so now is our time to behave like a standards body we should have a liaison reply would people like to join this effort I\u0027d like people to think about that because this is something we\u0027ve been working on supposedly an IP PM ever since Matt started Matt Mathis did the buff about 25 years ago so but I\u0027d like to see people do is contribute methods perform calibrations in other labs make access technologies available in the laboratories that\u0027s the phase 2 of this program and so let me know will propose a reply we\u0027ll put it on the list and we\u0027ll do something together that\u0027s that\u0027s the plan any comments on this so we have one person in the queue who\u0027s they hi everybody I am cosign a CEO from when Osiris thank you all to bring up this this subject just a little comment yes perhaps the main problem to measure speed at a commlink internal comm link is the that you need to block the link you need to float the link in order to do that and this make some interrupts for the users then you also bring up an another problem which is you cannot perform at the same time test in every in everybody from you even in one person of the home could be a lot of traffic into the metric that is there for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:33",
    "text": "bankruptcy great points yes but perhaps you okay I am bringing this up because I am working on on this kind of of the problem and my approach is just to test in in another way I mean perhaps measuring some information about the traffic measuring the variation of delays you can make some inferences about the traffic how the traffic is behaves in into the network yes for sure it needs more more explanation than that but I think they perhaps ideas to find another kind of approach to this very good thanks Ignacio and I and Ignacio got in touch with me by email he\u0027s sort of interested in joining up with this as well so look the those of us who are doing this we we welcome you to think about it and join us if this is a sort of a hot topic for you it\u0027s it\u0027s it will certainly have tremendous visibility if we can manage to harm this across the industry I think it\u0027s time thanks taking people should just email you on the list [Music] okay minutes I will make that back I\u0027ll make that back easily alright so um so now we\u0027re transitioning to the topic of the registry and the initial contents for the registry this draft is providing the initial contents a set of performance metrics that will go into the registry we\u0027re defining for performance metrics so you can see that where we\u0027ve done plenty of iterations here number eight for the registry contents and number sixteen for the design of the registry so that means that we\u0027re going to go through the next four slides really fast watch active passive and hybrid those are the kinds of metrics we handle was with up with precision I\u0027m getting too quick here um registry concept versions 15 and 16 no substantial revisions I did a little editing I just read part of it and fixed some stuff up here\u0027s the registry design we got different categories of summaries metric definition and so forth this has all been really solid - so here\u0027s what really happened in the red metric contents from the we\u0027re closing the opens so the DNS response time and loss section it now requires the support of the ID generation so we can get query and response correlation UDP one-way delay and loss we did that\u0027s in section 8 now it\u0027s a periodic run time run time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:36",
    "text": "parameters are fixed so that it\u0027s a was always a periodic test it\u0027s going to look like a void stream we got 20 milliseconds spacing a little bit rate packet size and so forth next steps the lingering issues we did not see the reviews of the TCP section that were requested or hoped for or would be better if we had and others have reviewed this section so I\u0027m saying let\u0027s not wait let\u0027s go request working group last call with a deadline please let\u0027s shake any final comments loose with that deadline and the con the observation that longevity is unattractive for internet drafts reminding you that we\u0027re at version 16 in version 8 so that\u0027s it we\u0027re at a point of interaction here mr. chairman mm-hmm all right so yeah thank you al I agree with the idea that yep these are long lived drafts they seem to be in pretty good shape the recent updates have been minor I think it makes sense to have these go into a working group last call how many people have read the documents just to recalibrate that so first ever is are you familiar with the documents in general okay so mmm six ish not a huge amount have people read the most recent updates or looked at the recent ifs you just saw right yeah they\u0027re pretty small okay so these are quite long documents I think you\u0027d be a relatively well you read them right Tommy I have read yes yes so I think actually doing the last call would be really good and a good opportunity to ask the whole working group to seriously do review the documents in their entirety and kind of see that full flow does anyone have any objections to doing that are we good to go great so yeah I will start a last call on that hopefully this week and give a deadline to that if people could please take the time to review these on your flight back home maybe I\u0027d be great thank you very much working group and mr. chairman I will make a note that there is a section in the registry contents draft on our TCP metrics which we will remove so don\u0027t bother reviewing that that was there as a proof of concept that this worked across all these different metrics and it was not intended to to keep it so that\u0027s going to disappear don\u0027t bother with your comments on that thank you okay that\u0027s it no oh yes so this is the last time you\u0027ll see me today upfront we\u0027ve been working on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:38",
    "text": "advanced unidirectional route assessment metrics Ignacio who you saw just a moment ago Yoakam Fubini Karl Pina taro and Ruettiger guide so now we actually have five of us who have joined up on this group so the quick background on this is that we first presented it at IETF 99 we got it adopted shortly after 100 we\u0027ve generalized all the definitions so that it\u0027s more widely applicable and the version we put in at 101 and we got some good feedback just before and after a working group session and that 108 f-102 so we added rüdiger as an author he\u0027s produced an MPLS appendix carlos added a reference for that and that\u0027s in there now to Yakov Stein who didn\u0027t put this comment on the list said you guys are describing your route ensemble and your metric your member routes as an ordered graph and that\u0027s the wrong term he said so we looked into it we turned out Yakov was right so we fixed this and it only appeared in the in the draft in one place so it was an easy fix but now we\u0027ve explained why we\u0027re choosing this term okay so we\u0027ve revised several methods I\u0027ll get to that in a little bit and and we\u0027ve added an initial section on this intermediate point path assessment so these are two areas we\u0027re developing obviously there\u0027s a lot of repetition in temporal the temporal repetition in measuring path hops and the different members of the ensemble route and obviously would be good to recognize that and so we\u0027ve got this concept of of basically retesting parts of the path especially the parts where you\u0027re seeing you know the load balancing and and multiple multiple paths they equal cost multi path so we\u0027ve got a section on that we\u0027re still developing a section on the this concept of routing Class C where we somehow discover if if I if I have multiple paths through the network what are the characteristics that describe whether packets go through those paths or not and if we understand that that\u0027s a piece of information that we can use in further testing specifically we can use it with testing routes at a midpoint if we have a path if we have a if we we have a flow of interest that we\u0027ve discovered that we would like to be able to learn more about for example like a quick flow where we\u0027ve discovered that the spin bit tells us that the round-trip time is unexpectedly large then we could make a trace route from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:39",
    "text": "that point and we could match the con the basically the context of that quick flow discover the path discover the hops where the delay is growing and that might be good to know so what are the steps to do that the preliminary steps there\u0027s probably some calculations here that need to be done in more detail and obviously not in words but we\u0027ve got the stream it\u0027s described by a five tuple we\u0027re going to calculate one or more possible hash values that could be discovering whether this how this flow is routed through the network and it\u0027s ultimately these hash values that define routing Class C so then we\u0027ll have synthesized route measurement packets and we will basically be trying to match the hash value and keep our checksum concept constant it\u0027s another so that the multiple packets follow the same route just like we\u0027re doing with parish trace routed or MDA or whatever the various things are today and when you try to do both these things at once I think it gets interesting so I had hoped to spend more time on this in the interim period but I see Gregg has a comment here so please Greg yes and the idea of course is that you don\u0027t know exactly what hashing has been chosen but you have that\u0027s why I talk about it in in portal here you may have to calculate a number of these and then determine which one of those is the real one the one that matters you want me to bring in one way okay good that\u0027ll be great thank you so that\u0027s not working at all does that one working so so greg has some other ideas about this and he\u0027s going to contact me offline actually Greg we could do it on the list if you want however you prefer oh so we\u0027ve got some lingering to-do items on this draft CMP is Carlos Oh Frank Franks Frank\u0027s got it yeah yeah it works thank you for well done Frank you\u0027re you\u0027re a real engineer it\u0027s knowing which is the right button Frank well done those sound boards are sometimes intimidating oh yeah so we had to review volunteers Illya Atlas was valo was sort of volunteered to review this oh oh there she is hi Lea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:44",
    "text": "it\u0027s great thanks so much and a Brian Brian from L volunteered Yuri Arco [Laughter] it didn\u0027t where your work I I guess I did see I did see you are you last night and I I did not mention it but I will try to talk to him about it during this week so we have these other things we had to fix there on our list next steps authors we got to complete our to-do items the working group and the authors continue developing these sections input from others so a wide appeal please read this it\u0027s it\u0027s I think it\u0027s useful information it\u0027s a good background to what\u0027s being done in the network today and and also the measurements that we need to understand what we\u0027re measuring I mean right at the beginning of the RFC 23 30 I ppm framework it says you know paraphrasing understand the path that you\u0027re measuring do we do that every time in my old measurement system on the backbone we did but I you know I think a lot of the things I talked about on the on the liaison topic do not so they may know the two end points that\u0027s about it so I mean there\u0027s more to do here and and stuff that can be routinely done that\u0027s actually quite informative not just measuring speed and latency during speed tests ICMP off to the side meaningless so you know and know your path know where your packets went this is fundamental stuff that\u0027s what it\u0027s what our forefathers and I ppm told us we should be doing 20 years ago let\u0027s not forget it so that\u0027s it no actions here except to line up some authors Tommy anybody care or not authors reviewers we\u0027ve got plenty it turns out we have plenty of authors I mean we have the reviews pending so that\u0027ll be great but yes I think everyone if you can read it and send any reviews to the list that would be great do have any comments or anything now okay this when this happens it means that we\u0027re not really behaving like a working group we have everybody has to read drafts come to the meeting and and come to the microphone and said I read I read the draft and here\u0027s what I want or here\u0027s what I saw that\u0027s what happens so can we have raised hands for will you be able to review this draft and send feedback to the list Leo thank you all right thank you thank you all right so I think that\u0027s a good first round at least so please do say that out awesome thanks so much everybody or I appreciate your attention on all these important topics please get in touch with me about any of them and my co-authors and I think I gave you some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:46",
    "text": "minutes back man so you did thank you very much I\u0027m sure all the Lightning talks will appreciate it I think Frank [Music] yeah I think it\u0027s not only me it\u0027s Brian he\u0027s I think somewhere in the back maybe you could come up front and we have Mickey on line he was gonna go and take the third portion so I\u0027m gonna go and talk about the update so everything that is marked with a little blue star is covered in this particular presentation there is quite a bunch of encapsulation grafts and the number is growing and I think that was expected given that we\u0027re taking the IOM data fields into virtually any reasonable transport protocol or no not transport protocol protocol that would carry things and there is also a bunch of adain I um related work popping up so I\u0027m very happy to see that my stuff is really about the core document which is the data raft defining the data fields and we are at revision for right now and revision for is pretty much a reflection of the discussion that we had in the last meeting in Montreux in Montreal we already started to discuss adding a namespace identifier and that I namespace identifier is now in the document and it is there to distinguish between operational domains let\u0027s remember we defined all the iom namespace only the IOM fields data fields with the notion saying well it\u0027s within a particular domain it is within a particular namespace but we forgot to add the definition if the namespace and the document so that is kind of a fix into what we we\u0027ve been referring to for quite some time but never ever really defined so it\u0027s there to distinguish operational domains it helps you provide context for fields that are there like node ID but nobody tells you how to interpret the node ID well with namespace ID you can go do that and you can even differentiate different sets of devices that way if you really want to so if you have one namespace for devices that support a certain set of options and another namespace for another set of options you can easily distinguish that using namespaces so it\u0027s a useful thing and which is why it\u0027s in there right now the definition is for 16-bits namespace identifier and there\u0027s been discussions on well should that all be operator defined or not well right now the feeling is maybe not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:49",
    "text": "so we want to go and allow for operator defined as well as I Anna defined trying to figure out what I entity find might really mean that discussion is ongoing and also how to go and carve up the bits right now we had this thing like it\u0027s either or I think that\u0027s reflected in the in the document right now that might not be smart enough we might even want to have a combination where you\u0027re saying well there is an int value and the INA value says it\u0027s only belonging to well it\u0027s applicable worldwide or it\u0027s only applicable to a certain region or it\u0027s only applicable to a certain whatever domain like anything Europe because in Europe things are different than anywhere else on the planet or whatever right I think we\u0027re just thinking of that and you want to go and combine it with an operational domain with an operator to find definition and well the current way is not really cutting that so that\u0027s an ongoing discussion what is pretty sure is we want to have a default and the default is all zeros so well we probably need to go and turn that and update that as we learn more on how people really want to go and use the namespace Rd and assign the er namespace ID above and beyond what we have it\u0027s there in all the different option headers so it\u0027s there on the trace option header it\u0027s there and the approve of transit option header and it\u0027s there and the e2e option header so no surprises there given that well its namespace everything it\u0027s a VM space the other thing that happened with we introduced the namespace and that meant we needed to go and move the fields around as we moved the fields around well we wanted to go and give credit to some of the records that we\u0027re seen earlier on for well 16 bits for option types are relatively tight for trace type so I think we used up correct me if I\u0027m wrong something like 13 or 12 bits already and so it\u0027s getting kind of very close to 16 so we took the opportunity to expand to 24 so there is more Headroom so we can add more stuff we want to be careful on how much additional stuff we we add so not going really on to kind of a tangent there but we have a couple of bits to go and play with also mention at the last working group meeting so some interaction is is happening right pharrell we had this thing that was called app data for the time being and well it\u0027s really namespace specific data and we\u0027re calling the thing now so it\u0027s editorial but I want to go and call that out so if people want to go and play with things that are just for them that\u0027s the field right if you have something that you want to go and carry and trace data that you don\u0027t want to go and see standardized but you still want to go and have that in your domain that\u0027s the way to go well put free format data if you have more free format data there is this notion of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:49",
    "text": "state opaque states net snapshot which is a soft teal v within that TLB harder to do go and built-in in hardware which is I think while we have the two options there is one additional thing at it as another trace option we\u0027re just buffer occupancy so we already started to eat more bits ongoing discussion on well how much additional stuff we wouldn\u0027t really want as a baseline in the document again discussions ongoing given that we have a few additional bits many but a few additional bits Devon play with and that\u0027s it for the data draft we can take questions at the very end on all of the things if you like going that way then maybe or we can take 30 notions that Brian can you go I there you are [Music] following comments the first one you the we have the hacksaw you know tell me I should mention yeah I in the you know we found a VP Pete who increment the I am so we found some of these so the issues some of the apparent her errors in the current her craft here yeah yeah I said the comments to the minimis thank you so much harder than that so what you did is great and you called a load of editorial knits and loads of these editorial in its sometime somehow happened when we did the oh three to all four because well we grew the field from 16 to 24 and then well not all the calculations kind of caught up with that great stuff and we\u0027ll make tickets for all of that on github there is a bunch of other editorial tickets that are lining up right now yeah it\u0027s well okay good that you\u0027ve done that and I think that\u0027s showing another benefit off the hackathon right as people trying to go and reason about the latest version and I think one of the objectives of the hackathon was to implement the all four versions you suddenly start to stumble across all these little things that well we weren\u0027t too careful about and so thanks for for keeping a straight here okay thank you okay second why you the I am with the encapsulation in fact I think the SR and I\u0027m sure I important here scenario so the for the NPR\u0027s I mentioned that the you know I\u0027m sure so working group we proposed the draft called I\u0027m Chelsea header that means the extremes either is a try to encapsulate a between the I\u0027m how the label stack and the payload we hope I\u0027m Jocelyn header can incorporate the I AMA date her and the SFC date her so I think that\u0027s a you the either idea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:50",
    "text": "so I laid her father I\u0027m her so we would like that who this concert is a topical yeah so I seen your lightning talking on it yeah yeah that\u0027s talk on this thing no no no I know a lot in her I gotta mentioned that\u0027s your you mentioned there\u0027s a encapsulation okay thank you okay so add that to the list that\u0027s what he\u0027s saying yeah another one you will also read the draft you to mention the SR and the SR and the oh I am so I think that in either some alignment between the SRO am and I\u0027m header because some the I am an information over to be encapsulated in the SR action so but I think the SRM cars and ice are mistakes may have the different process different process okay so I think we even have a few people that take care of the SR encapsulation of IOM in the room we can either chat about right now may be real quick I think in the lacking talk we have to draw one from wreckage from us they we could go over some different cuts which indeed so there are the I think the two proposal for in TLS encapsulation okay thank you thank you Brian hi folks this is a short draft a short presentation and describing when the IOM option and data space is valuable to be sent in its own Ethernet encapsulation and basically the little can I get just just chime in one second so I think this is an updated version of the GRE draft that you shepherded prior right and I think it was a Lea to inspire in the last working group meeting well if you do something either type do a generic for all either types instead of just doing for GRE and I think that\u0027s a reflection of what what Brian\u0027s going to go present here actually I have question procedures so this is individual draft why we\u0027re presenting it not in the way link talk why it\u0027s in between of the working group draft eating the time I think this is Chet this was I guess lumped in with the IOM work but it looks like a fair did do you mind if we can you be five minutes I can be less than five minutes okay we\u0027re doing pretty well on time so I think we\u0027re leave it here for now so this is the motivation for the draft and as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:51",
    "text": "Frank pointed out we\u0027ve made it more general from before this is really just very simple encapsulation it\u0027s the IOM option data space with its own little header like you\u0027d expect for any kind of a Easter type and the next protocol points to the next either type in the list whether it be ipv4 or something else and the only little difference in here is that we\u0027ve also defined that the next protocol could be an IP protocol number which is for a different use case when you want to include this as part of an IP stack but in general its intended for Ethernet so it\u0027s it\u0027s very simple then here\u0027s an example of how you\u0027d fit this with giri giri is going to point to this a new type of a new ether type that we were asking to be defined which the first payload and the giri then is simply that\u0027s what we saw in the previous screen and then it points to whatever comes next and you can do the same with geneva actually again the genève header with this point to any search that has an e so type that will point to the iom easier type that we couldn\u0027t ask for and there it is and then something follows and that\u0027s really the entire draft entire presentation any questions all right go ahead yeah can you hear me now yep okay so I assume someone will the sites here we go okay so it\u0027s pretty similar to the 0 0 version that we had before the updates one is on IO am encapsulation type so as you saw the end caps are there are new end caps being being proposed so I added a point for ipv6 hoping that something will move forward in with the ipv6 end cap and Ginny now has two options one is with engine Eve using an option class and the other is what we just heard using the ether type and a next protocol type of approach so just to code points in for that the main thing is to add two new information elements in order to optimize the use of IP packet section and Ethernet frame section so these were issues that I noted last time and last time there were some comments that like it\u0027s not really possible to change the definitions of the existing information elements well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:53",
    "text": "this is kind of parallel information elements and whether you want to use these new ones or the old ones I don\u0027t see any reason to preclude I\u0027m using the old ones versus the new ones so if you can go to the next slide we can see what the what is it trying to solve so right now there\u0027s an IP header packet section and I\u0027m proposing an IP header packet section with padding and so if you look at the padding rules for the packet sections that are using IP fix they more or less make sense for a fixed length but for a variable length it doesn\u0027t do everything that you want to do in particular if the say an IP packet and it\u0027s not a multiple of four octet long then how do you preserve alignment especially if you have subsequent information elements or subsequent records they\u0027re in the same set and that that\u0027s the main thing I wanted to solve here so allowing variable lengths up to three octets of padding and if it\u0027s fixed length allowing this even if section exported octet is not present I thought thinking that it might make sense to still allow a full packet to be in there and then padding after it if the full packet is smaller than the fixed length I\u0027m specified so this was just trying to give us more ways to do the padding not necessarily having to have the section exported octet and allowing for variable length and still keeping the floor octet alignment next slide so the definition of the IP header packet section so the first three paragraphs are basically the same as what can I be at her package section the original and then with padding just reorganize the wording so instead of talking about whether you have section export of octets or not it\u0027s just organized the other way around to fix length or variable length so if it\u0027s fixed length you can have an arbitrary number of padding off tats if it\u0027s a variable length up to three octets of padding to give you your four octet alignment and either way you can either say how much you included using section exported octets or you can work off the length of the IP packet and add after the end of the packet if it happens to be shorter next slide so Ethernet so one thing if you want to do a layer 2 packet section or in Ethernet packet section so one issue is the padding which is the same as what\u0027s being proposed for the IP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:54",
    "text": "header packet section the other issue is that right now the section is a data link same section which could be Ethernet could be 802 11 or so on I wanted to propose something specifically for Ethernet here so that you don\u0027t have to include the data link frame type and data log frame size so that\u0027s pretty much the new content so some of it was the end cap stop just aligning code points and then there these new IPA IP header packet section with padding and for that frame section are the new proposals for a couple of new information elements so that\u0027s all I had I guess we could move on to questions [Music] so Mickey Crankbrothers did you chat to brine on the the new proposed fields was suggesting that and maybe he can give some guidance on how likely it is to go and get additional fields until IP fix it so I think that was the main question okay yeah I don\u0027t think the problem is getting additional fields themselves but the concern was raised at the last meeting that the old text on security considerations might not be sufficient and yeah we could be some feedback on that okay thanks and we just roll quickly to make steps do you wanna come back up so from a nap steps perspective I think on the the data draft we definitely have to go and do an o-5 version with all the editorial knits but also closing on some of the discussion items the document is getting pretty mature so hopefully we can do either the O 5 or all six for working group last poll that\u0027s what I\u0027m really hoping for so we can close on that because we\u0027ve already seen some people or not say bitching but close to that or unhappiness about yeah well you\u0027re still moving feels around we\u0027re putting things into hardware yeah fair point so we want to be stable as quickly as we can from an export draft perspective so make you stun a few additions but I think I want to see whether people feel like that\u0027s stable enough to eventually consider at least Whitney Group adoption and more of a note and that notice to our friendly ATS point in the last meeting make sure that you\u0027re doing kind of thorough review process with all the working groups that Shepherd a particular protocol that we\u0027re encapsulating into that\u0027s pretty much an ongoing process so there is review happening this week with an NV o 3 on things that are related to genève there is reviews happening later on today with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:55",
    "text": "regards to six men and the devii six out capsulation the say review correct me if I\u0027m wrong ali zafar if if things are wicked in spring with regards to the segments routing stuff so I think we\u0027re trying to go and progress that and get feedback and lo4 for all the various working groups and then I see some nodding his head on man bo3 so that\u0027s more over a heads up if we can I think the default is still that we\u0027re trying to go and keep all the protocol work here so that IP p.m. has the broadest view on the whole thing and yeah that\u0027s all I had to say meuk 11 so it\u0027s not our decision if we want to keep the work here if we have to coordinate with the other working groups and decide where those drafts go yeah it\u0027s not only about we really have to figure out where the home is and I already started coordinating with the other air directors and chairs on that so who is we the chairs okay I\u0027m just saying like be prepared to move that over if that\u0027s a decision I think well there\u0027s one thing missing here that\u0027s the Anna\u0027s H Drive which is in SF C so well wherever things progress the quickest well we will go wherever it takes right confirm with you the quickest but it\u0027s the right way to do I just realized that didn\u0027t coordinate with a spring working group so I will do that as well Thanks yeah as a house owned from Huawei I asked a similar question in the email list I\u0027m still a little bit confused about the ISA type shouldn\u0027t that be standardized in actual year and if we can define he\u0027s a type here and was a procedure for the liaison with the HP and my question and why you want define the Easter type in the GRE and we Jenny so I think this I\u0027m still little bit confused I think the only thing that we\u0027re requesting is a code point right we\u0027re not defining anything even at here we\u0027re using code points from the Ethernet registry for our purpose that\u0027s what we did in order well if there is a registry that just use that so we\u0027ll require that I should Bui takes the same number on so maybe in the future you can also add that header in the there to Ethernet packet not sure that I follow yes Greg nurse ect i certain the previous opinion because code point requires definition because if code point is not allocated it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:57",
    "text": "valid to drop the packet so it\u0027s probably not the behavior you expect if this code point expects some processing that has to be defined and if this either type happens to be on Ethernet packet on Ethernet frame then what\u0027s the proper behavior so I think that at least we need to reason with I to pony and ask them for their opinion if they want it to be this work to be done at I Triple E then that has to be I don\u0027t think that ITF has either type registry assigned or range from I Triple E and we have MAC addresses but don\u0027t think that we have either types I might be mistaken sorry oh yeah let\u0027s so the IETF goes to I Triple E and requests Ethernet point even at type allocations occasionally for drafts when they have been approved we have an agreement with the I Triple E for the a assigning this is really pretty cut well I once it\u0027s pretty common we\u0027ve only done it like three times in the last two or three years but it\u0027s not unusual that\u0027s exactly what we have to do and Martin knows how to do it because he got sake I mean I had to do it for one of the drafts that I left I think from I don\u0027t know I think it was from trial but we also did it for nsh for instance after dress yes but the process can take a while and given our relationship with I triple it being I Triple E being so absolutely excellent you could probably put the request in after working your blast call or something it and it will take some time it does usually take about three months or so and then you need to sort of sometimes encourage them expert review process so there are two expert reviewers in 90s who who can coordinate for that another question for the encapsulation because I have a marketís caution with the operator and all he case they have much interested you know I am is very useful but you know that so for the legacy devices the supporting ipv4 you know you can see Stian hit walk so the hope also be supported iom so I want to know what\u0027s the opinion making a hit here for because from our poem now the most people think the ipv6 but a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:57",
    "text": "legacy devices a lot off or the ipv4 traffic so but these are seems of practical requirements so do we need to do some encapsulation and definition for ipv4 or just no future for ipv4 well I think I can second the question that we get that people want to see something defined for v4 or a solution for before do we have a draft on that for now I don\u0027t see any yeah I\u0027ve seen as I say you know just we seem to want to collect opinion from the community so when defend I think that in Asia you simple but the definition is not that simple but there is definitely a desire to have something that\u0027s or getting close to time on this so we could cut lines yeah and what a cool shirt we tried so I was mr. Dawkins I\u0027m the irresponsible transport area director for this working group now it was the pleasure when we was talking about the you know relationship with the I Triple E attitude people being excellent oh we\u0027re actually having breakfast with them on from our coordination meeting on Friday morning if you all wanted to give them a heads up and just see if there\u0027s that yo at the 50,000 foot level this is coming is there anything that like have you guys decided to stop allocating them I mean you know at that level of of heads up it might be helpful to do that I\u0027m I\u0027m good I don\u0027t know who else is going to be at that meeting right now but some other people that\u0027s true maybe to do that but I\u0027m planning on being at the meeting that nobody else does so could you do that 5000 foot heads maybe if it just just just don\u0027t drop me a note about it the author is gonna yeah I don\u0027t know dispense it you know I actually still read the mailing list with great interest on all these topics so either just even just following up on the mailing list would be great thank you thank you hi Barack looks just a coin on the Reformation so we do also see a lot of interest in the V for years case definitely we started working on a draft at least I was working on draft or is that the problem is where to put all these kind of bits because v4 is very very restrictive just a note actually I people already have some kind of IO am inside so the ones did it tens of years ago already thought about it but it\u0027s very restricted in terms of what can you put there our problem today is how much can route recording sorry you want route recording you wander out recording and before back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:06",
    "text": "ok I think we\u0027re we cut the lines so yep yeah I think we\u0027re four should move on for time for now thank you you tend to the list yep and so just to follow up for the interaction with the other working groups I guess if we\u0027re doing those presentations there let\u0027s just make sure for each of those to have a good statement of if they want to take it there if we want to have the work we\u0027ve done here all right [Music] so update on stem based protocol quick recoup so it\u0027s the act of measurement or in protocol compatible with the t1 test to reuse packet formats and changes introduced backwards compatible with the t1 quite default values reflector configuration simple activation of a stem configuration supported yang model and yang model is another working group draft that we have working on and a new functionality introduced a step may not be supported by t1 so there is extensions using TLV and we have individual draft for your review and comments appreciated so this is a packet format for stamp sender everybody familiar with the t1 Oro amp will see familiar structure and this is a reflector for uneducated so what was added in the latest update is the section on authentication and encryption operations so the data integrity is supported by ashmac using sha-1 truncated to 16 octaves very similar to what\u0027s done in or 120 womp actually will follow the same methods and procedures used in a 121 but it would not be a guaranteed interoperability between nodes because the generation of the keys may be different so making keys compatible is different because or 121 they\u0027re using a Sid information to generate keys locally so and seeds are exchanged for the tuam control and/or one control protocols so confetti is encryption and again it follows the same familiar procedure from or one in T 1 so that\u0027s they all update welcome comments and offers believe that we are ready for the working group high school great so can we see a show of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:06",
    "text": "hands of whose redness or whether any comment yeah let\u0027s first see who has actually read the document so just a couple hands okay add one quick question Frank nurse um you\u0027re encrypting and you\u0027re using 128-bit H Mac right now right what if somebody would break it what would go wrong break what specifically so the the encryption the authenticity so if somebody would insert something fake so what is the threat vector that you\u0027re protecting against well we\u0027re protecting against somebody spoofing measurements and creating false negative or false positive on the picture of the back condition of the network because performance monitoring is important as to verify that certain service receives the expected SLA so operators care big deal about it especially for the premium services so if somebody\u0027s proof measurement results so it\u0027s not only a tag because it\u0027s more computational load but at the same time it changes the perception of the network state well I think it would be good to go and rather I understand the threat but what is the kind of thing that you\u0027re really protecting against what if somebody would really break the measurements because 128 is breakable right and I think I\u0027m just wondering kind of why you chose that one and well if somebody would go and well brigade and good fake data and it\u0027s that really harmful yes no maybe it\u0027s what t1 does in how long does it\u0027s better than nothing let\u0027s believe you would not argue so if it\u0027s good enough well let\u0027s let\u0027s discuss it yeah yes please coming to the microbe fluorine bellboys cobrado personal ethic is stupid because we are discussing encryption for measurement we are not producing traffic after while the overall computation actually to break a 128-bit message for a measurement packet in negative measurement port it\u0027s kind of strange "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:08",
    "text": "okay I\u0027m good question back to you sorry are you suggesting that measurements don\u0027t need to have any protection any security I have a said that you may not need in certain cases protection however a very high level of protection is noteworthy from the endnote perspective it comes at a cost now of course we understand it and that\u0027s why we have as similar to t101 there is unaffiliated mode there is an indicated mode and there is encrypted mode you know choose your poison yes how much computation would you like to put on each of the end nodes I am doing this question I don\u0027t 128-bit it\u0027s more than enough for a measurement that I believe is just very happy yeah commenting on the previous come okay thank you okay I misunderstood because again there are different modes and implementers operators can choose whatever they prefer your argument was about integrity but have you got an argument that anyone ever wants to use confidentiality given their measuring stuff that you can measure yourself so that it and that\u0027s not about processing that\u0027s about implementation you know if if you\u0027re making people implement something that no one\u0027s ever going to use and I mean certainly integrity and authentication in my past experience implementing t-bond yes there is implementation with the t1 encrypted and authenticated mode how much it\u0027s used in the field that\u0027s a different discussion okay from anecdotal evidence I know is most of deployments use t1 white which is unauthenticated and not encrypted I think I\u0027m ignacio\u0027s next well hi again just to add that sometimes out and not authentication but verification of the information is very useful for some kinds of protocols for instance if you are doing some clock synchronization is very useful to know that the data that you are sending are are really good I think that it\u0027s in some context there is maybe this this kind of security but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:08",
    "text": "also agree that 128 bits it\u0027s not enough for that perhaps you should consider - - to change that - 2056 thank you 256 256 yes yes sorry 250 prime wise yeah I think it\u0027s max sha-256 or something is the more appropriate for any new protocol that we\u0027re adding attached to tag - these days I would say that adding an H hmm integrity tag is very reasonable many cases you have to be a little more careful as confidentiality and how the encryption actually is done so for example you\u0027re suggesting ECB mode for the first 8 bytes in the fennec aidid case which I hope I guess that must be authenticated but the ECB is not a mode we actually really use because it\u0027s these days it\u0027s it\u0027s nice that it doesn\u0027t expand but it doesn\u0027t really have a lot of good properties good to properties as other modes of AES and then in the other communists in the encrypted mode you\u0027re using CBC which is good but you have to have an initialization vector for that and use that in the packet or how otherwise how you drive that [Music] well actually since we are not defining how keys distributed yes we can describe their process of installation and what it should be but again well traditional method is to have a random IV or mostly random IV and it\u0027s percent in the packet we tend to prefer or the cryptographers tend to discourage using for example the same IV across all packets in a stream and this sorts of things so it\u0027s just something you want to pay attention to and that\u0027s why I say really there\u0027s a lot more complications to adding confidentiality you might want to just restrict this integrity okay thank you thank you so I think we\u0027re gonna move on timewise I think as far as next steps for this based on the new stuff that you\u0027ve added for this confidentiality and integrity protection I think it\u0027d be good to have some of these reviews and comments brought to the list to do a little bit more review on that well there is a one way but at the same time it could be a part of the working group Costco reviews and then we\u0027ll address them all together as they come sure so maybe just do it a little bit extended yeah and I think at this point because we have some of the other documents that look like we could be getting to work in class call first so we\u0027re going to run those first and then if people can give some of these comments that they just had onto the list even before we go to working group last call for us that would be good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:08",
    "text": "that\u0027s of course yeah yeah we will be just responding to comments and working with the reviewers perfect thank you all right and NU\u0027EST from Telecom Italia reverb cab Mike excuse me I\u0027m Mo Rocca Celia from Telecom Italia and I will present the last version of this draft that is just become adopted [Music] [Music] [Music] I\u0027m analyzed spanned from alternate marking it\u0027s to generalize at the span data not marking we create for monitoring purposes you Flo\u0027s joining several point-to-point frozen so in the RFC 8321 we have a point-to-point flow in this case we have a multi-point to multiple flows for example so we have less counters and we have less computation in in the motoring points in the management center but we can add the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:11",
    "text": "sum flows and we can split the net were using our concept of cluster in the network ok we can is to have a monitoring network it works if all the ingress point all the egress point of the overflow are monitored and we can put in the middle the blue circle the green circle some intermediate measurement points if all the English and the older giris are monitored the system works so we can design a monitoring network that is formed by all the monitoring points and the link the beautiful links then connect these monitoring points for example we have some kind of application that demonstrate that we can reduce the number of flow that we can monitor the first one is VPN usually in a VPN we have to monitor a lot of rows because to monitor all the point-to-point flows if we have for example 1,000 ppm endpoint we have one medium of flows that connect any twenty if we define a flow as one flow for each VPN endpoint this flow is a multi one point-to-multipoint that connects one point one endpoint of the VPN to the other points so in this case we have to monitor only 1000 flows for 1000 endpoints naturally this case the motoring is less precise let me say is precise for the inter flow but don\u0027t identify the precise flow point flow where the loss for example the packet loss happened okay we can split the net were using the cluster concept the other are very similar so okay the principle of this cluster division of the network is the packet loss property in a packet net or the number Moustakas is number of input packets means the number of packets this is very trivial but if this property is intended not for the whole network but for single sub networks we define a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:12",
    "text": "principle that permits to individuate the smaller sub Network in which this property is valid in the next slide we show a simple meter that permits to split the network in all the cluster cluster is the smallest sub networks that maintain this property the algorithm is very simple we group all the links for the starting point and we obtain five groups in the case of these graphs and then we join the groups that have almost at least one ending point in common so we join this group and this group we had four clusters this means that in each cluster we don\u0027t know how many packets are lost for each links but we can know only how many packets are lost from all the ingress point to the oldest point so is not precise with me say but more general principle that the thing in the u8 the area of the network where their losses happens if we want to have a more precise we have to add as other intermediate points is choosing other interface in the networks so it\u0027s possible to split the cluster adding other measurement points for the delay measurement of two possibilities if we consider average average delay we can measure the average delay for each period of the time that in average a packet ever to cross a cluster so for each cluster for each period for each flow we can have an average delay this is a not so precise because it\u0027s an average if we want to have a single packet measurement the topology used to select the point of measurement on the bezel on the basis of cluster so we use the machine to select the packets in the next slide I think yes in the RFC five four seven five is a show the method that permits to select some packets and to invade the packets in different point of the network in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:13",
    "text": "this case we collect all the packets for each cluster in the input point and all the packets in each class in the out point we can make some comparison to individuate the same H in the waiting area so it\u0027s possible for each packet to follow the path so the measurement is not multi-point is point-to-point the multi-point network and the cluster concept term is to have less computation less overfilled all the packets to compare there are two possibilities batterer we can skip okay there is a a draft draft sunbonnet mode yang FSM that define an application this method in order to have sort of a feedback during the monitoring of a flow we can start to monitor a big flow for example all the traffic there is no filter on the traffic so the counters runs which if there is a problem with we can select the flow so we split this multi-party flow in a smaller flows or in another case oome physically not to consider all the networks but consider the cluster inside the network overall group of cluster because the packet loss property works also for group or cluster data that are connected so in this case is the final the finite state machine that works in this way in order to make a dynamic monitoring okay this is the summary is very simple a controller can calibrate performance measurement dynamic performer measurement is introduced in the alternate marking + Asian technique + cluster add to perform optimize the single packet performance analysis so we put together many methodology to optimize the performance analysis that is very complicated to do without let me say segmenting of the network segmenting of the flows the working group just adopted that is this draft so we can I hope we can begin the path became FC thank you thank you any questions back on this alright thank you very much sorry about the poor quality of the slides presentation here PDFs are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:13",
    "text": "good all right so now I think we are on to our lightning time so we will begin that and I\u0027m going to try to enforce a five minute limit for each speaker so choose which parts you want to focus on thanks Jay I\u0027m Jay and as earlier during the conversation the point was made that the problem is with the v4 and measuring the v4 information is very important so this proposal came out of that discussion and idea is very simple that we want to be able to measure the metrics for the v4 traffic which is 80 percent of the traffic in a data center TCP UDP traffic and the scheme should work seamlessly for ipv6 traffic any other kind of tunnel traffic and MPLS as well but this presentation is focused on your nighty or an MPLS so the requirement which came to us that there is a deployment where the protocols fields are already used let\u0027s say the VX line header the field is used in that and we cannot really have a new GP extension to use this so is there a proposal which can use the existing format same thing is on the IP some folks use the dhcp bits can we use something where i\u0027m not relying on the dhcp bits proposal the other thing very important is that the path of the packet should not change meaning that the l4 headers and the information in the f4 header should be preserved and thank you go fast so so so that that was a protocol requirement on the operational side I think this is something which came in in the conversation that the insertion of the metadata should not increase the size of the packet we are the P NTU protocols are messed up so P and T you should be able to work seamlessly so the concept of creating a clone of the live traffic ability to do the truncation and then drop that was a concept which was needed and then there was some limitation we wanted to put on the amount of metadata which need to be inserted in the packet so on the performance side this is something which the question I had earlier in the presentation that have we discussed it with the silicon vendors because one of the cost I mean the cost of implementing this in Hardware given that this is a data path feature if it is too much getting the backing from silicon when they will be very difficult so what I am proposing here is salient points that we should not rely on DMA in the next cell of the package into the hardware which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:14",
    "text": "impacts the performance not recycling the packet all the edits on the packet should happen in low place wheels should not go beyond certain local offsets so that the hardware is very efficient and that essentially helps the cost of implementation in the hardware so that\u0027s kind of a rationale behind it and the concept is very very simple it\u0027s very elegant and I have backup slides on the on a tunnel packet on the IP six packets on the ipv6 packets and it looks very very elegant we don\u0027t need to allocate a new ether type we have to allocate on a protocol type for IP error which is a challenge but besides that there\u0027s nothing else which need to be mentioned or so we essentially define a up earlier header which sits as IP header next cetera extension and in that case there is a copying of the IP protocol which is done in the IFA in the IP header which is the upper layer protocol and then the hardware knows whenever the IP protocol is this proto I have a then it has to pick the actual protocol for the hash computation from the from the copied information which is so that\u0027s one part of it and if you see the metadata is actually treated as a layer for information and it\u0027s it\u0027s after the layer for information and essentially what it does it helps to keep the various computation which relies on the l4 information so that\u0027s pretty much it and my request is to look at it poke at it but the proposal in my opinion is very very elegant and what seamless before before we six tunnels as well as the MPs we have site meeting today at 5 p.m. and I will talk about MPLS as well and this I have a son brief conversation with treaty on this he gave me but and so can we skip back to their layout of a packet so my question is why bother and try to insert data measurement data or telemetry information into the data packet yeah so so so it depends what information and that question is in general that question is applicable to the institution as well it depends what information you are trying to gather if you are trying to gather the information about the network and network alone then your statement is right but you want the information about the network in a context of an application then you need the light there right but you don\u0027t have to insert it into this packet so creating a correlation out of band or in band that\u0027s two different ways and in this scheme we create a correlation in band which also gives us just to answer ability to do functions in the hardware and do not burden the collector "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:14",
    "text": "subsystem okay I want your attention when I will have five minutes on hybrid to step it five very very quick tell me sir are here while we would you be able to achieve your goals using the IOM header and data field format so far the re4 v6 and ipv6 we are not able to achieve goals and that\u0027s how this proposed of him okay I would be glad to hear more about it on the mailing list whatever sure thing alright thank you guys thank you so you two different decks just five yeah hi everyone my name is Rakesh Gandhi and this is the first time I\u0027m presenting in AI ppm so we have this couple of drafts for performance measurement in spring working group they are four segment routing the first draft is is for the MPLS data plane it\u0027s an informational draft so both drafts that we have relies they rely on the RFC 6334 and RFC 7876 so those are the existing RFC\u0027s and the focus is that how we use them for segment routing so in some sense they are not defining any new protocols per se so the for the first one the agenda the requirements and scope so what drafts are for the probe messages for the SR links and the p2p and p2 MPs are policies for the delay and last measurement so there are few things that go with it in different irises that we have put put them together so as mentioned billion last measurement and extended the team matrix for the delay and loss the scope is there in this draft the segment our thing with MPLS data playing the probe messages and the two RFC\u0027s that we mentioned and informational in nature so for links the probe packet is sent with the gal as defined in the Odyssey 60 C 74 for policies they are sent with the label stack the data she defines the gallon gas values for the delay measurement for lesson as well as for loss measurement for the probe responses the RFC 7870 C defines the uro TLV for out-of-band "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:14",
    "text": "reply and for the two a measurement the replies send the same way as the query there is a path segment ID drafts you may have heard about it so we use them for the loss measurement for accounting traffic there are few RFC\u0027s the they advertise the externality matrix for delay and loss so once we do the measurement we can use the values for the metric advertisement so we welcome your comments and suggestions and as mentioned those are existing RFC so implementations already exists and of this is for the spring working group we would be requesting adoption for it and the second draft is defining the UDP path so when we have segment routing with ipv6 data playing there is no gaol support so we are adding UDP port to point the RFC 63 74 packets so again we\u0027re not defining any new protocols per se same as 60 74 has already been implemented this one adds the UDP path for it again requirements and scope these are for the probe messages for the there are few TLB is not present in RFC 66 already for that and it can be useful for segment routing so we have added those TL ways and as you know the segment routing policies there the ICMP along the path so what we can do about them for performance measurement so again this is for delay and last measurement for s our MPLS and s our v6 data planes we don\u0027t need to bootstrap p.m. session say sixty seventy four is there is no such concept it stateless because there is a little path defined so you don\u0027t need to have a state we can do both one-way and two-way measurements and handily CMPs the scope is again the do RFC and just adding the UDP part for the query messages so as as mentioned there is one UDP port for the delay measurement and one UDP port for the last measurement that\u0027s requested and this one\u0027s messages if you are oh is there from the RFC 7876 then that\u0027s use for the reply otherwise responses sent using the information from the probe messages so there is a little part TLV it can contain either the segment list or the binding site for SR MPLS or less a v6 so the RFC 6624 doesn\u0027t have a second sequence number we thought is quite useful to have so we have added a TLB for it again the same RFC does not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:14",
    "text": "have a block number and as you know the 8321 alternative marking scheme requires block number or coloring so we added a TLB for the last measurement as you know there is EC mp4s our policies and many MPLS OAM RFC is already talked about ecmp so we can use the destination source address in the UDP or SRM pls there is entropy label or a service six this flow level if you wanted you know may serve the certain ICMP path so we welcome your comments and suggestions again those RFC\u0027s are already there so implementations are there as well so in the spring we would be asking for working group adoption thank you just a couple seconds over okay couple comments first in your first presentation you erred on label element there is no exp field this field was renamed a traffic class several years ago second of all is that this draft I believe doesn\u0027t have any archival value it looks more like design specification and I don\u0027t see the value of discussing and adopting it less adopting for the second presentation is why not to use a 1 T 1 plus stamp over a server 6 why invent something because these protocols are for IP network and segment routing in IP network where ipv6 is nothing different from IP network so why you cannot use that and it already gives you sequence number on your other point is 63 74 is quite well equipped to do synthetic OS measurement that\u0027s where you need a sequence number so you don\u0027t need to invent any new till v4 63 74 so I think there\u0027s a good points maybe we can discuss offline you and I I stated it early many times but I don\u0027t see that a person listening thank you yes only one comment is that sixty to seventy four is defined for the MPLS TP networks so when you read the RFC it says this is MPLS TP so you don\u0027t know how it works so you are mistaking again 63 74 is generic 73 75 63 75 is multiple and pair STP profile of 63 74 I\u0027m actually concerned about the \u0027simply comments that you made most devices and the good practice is not necessary to use MPLS entropy levels and also not always to use the flow levels and if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:15",
    "text": "change the UDP port and I don\u0027t see how this system works okay my name is Talon from Huawei this draft is a joint work with karma Josette and Malraux Mac Bureau and Craig a bit of background the idea alternate marking we want to be able to measure the traffic between two measurement points NP 1 + NP 2 that means lost delay delay variation RFC 8321 defines a way to do that using marking bit the marking bit changes periodically it also defines double marking where you have two marking bits one is changed periodically and the other has its value set in a single bit in a single packet in each period and that allows you to measure both loss and the delay in an accurate way so this is already defined in RFC 8321 this Draft defines new alternate marking methods which allow you to use single bit per packet with the same level of accuracy as the double marking method or to use zero bits per packet so it defines a few a few new methods of alternate marking it also summarizes the existing methods of alternate marking so we have kind of a summary and comparison between the methods so if you\u0027re defining a new network protocol which requires the use of alternate marking you can use this comparison and this trade-off to decide which alternate mark mean method is best for you now there\u0027s a pretty large number of drats drafts out there which make use of alternate marking or make use of something very similar including some of the drafts we saw today or will see later on there\u0027s a draft by TN Ron which wasn\u0027t added here yet and actually also the multi-point marking draft which was presented by Morrow which is now a working group item uses some of the concepts from this draft so first of all we believe that quite a few of these drafts can make use of the current draft we believe that the authors of these drafts should certainly be familiar with the current draft we\u0027d be happy to hear comments from these authors so I certainly believe that this draft is something that should be reviewed we\u0027d love to hear comments about it and that\u0027s at least the first step after that we\u0027ll ask for working with production it\u0027s great mercy CT so I\u0027m one of the cover I really encourage participants of the working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:17",
    "text": "group to review it because in as listed documents in other groups that discuss applicability of alternate marking method in general to their overlay encapsulations so to be more conservative of allocating space for out marking field we are relying on availability and progress of this compact marking method because it allows to do to use one bit marking flag and achieve accurate measurement for the packet loss and delay right we haven\u0027t considered that yet good question does it work for any caste traffic Thanks all right thank you one minute really all right next and I think Malini short you guys can all hear me okay so what this is is we talked about it last time it combines PDM and the marking method I\u0027m gonna go kind of quick because there was only one issue that was um well a couple issues would have brought up and this is a resolution to one of them okay so basically what we\u0027re doing is is PDM as a destination option it\u0027s int and we want the hop-by-hop so basically if you think of trace route but hybrid measurement and in the packet then you got what we\u0027re trying to do here okay so this is in PDM round trip delay but doesn\u0027t have one way delay or middle box delay so PDM is wonderful but then if you have a problem we need this okay so let\u0027s stop a second here so the problems were is that we have defined this hop by hop header for v6 we had a middle box identifier and then a time stamp in and out for obvious reasons but it\u0027s a 16-bit timestamp so the question was what how you gonna do that what what\u0027s in that time stamp okay I know it\u0027s like it\u0027s like out of alignment so like if your eyes are crossing there\u0027s a reason okay so since is 16 bits what we said and time stamp obviously is bigger than that so we made this a delta field so basically we pick a fixed point in time January 1st 2019 because that\u0027s probably the first time it will have an implementation and all the the 16 bits all the timestamps in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:19",
    "text": "and out or just Delta\u0027s off of that in believe will have nanoseconds something like that I mean it\u0027s a pretty simple concept pretty easy to see and the thing is is like because it actually doesn\u0027t even require time synchronization from one middle box to the other because it\u0027s really inside that middle box and so that\u0027s kind of the the thing that you get so with this what you\u0027ll get is so let\u0027s say you have a big hop in the middle you got a satellite link in the middle this could be super useful there is some talk about performance enhancing proxies well they could certainly use this if you have a middle box on your network that\u0027s causing you delays we can help you out there that\u0027s kind of the functionality so any comments everybody loved it we love it no no comments my guy what is wrong with everybody my head like does nobody care Mike get up and tell Tommy hair everybody how you love this and he\u0027ll be so super useful I mean it\u0027s not it\u0027s a really super simple concept that\u0027s that\u0027s all I wanted to do is is if it\u0027s simple it\u0027s easy to do it\u0027d be easy to understand people will use it that\u0027s the idea simple tell me why hey well we just a small comment regarding the timestamp field we have a draft in ntp which defines guidelines for defining back a timestamp format we\u0027d love if you could read that and if you could see whether it fits the way you define the timestamp sure sure let\u0027s talk offline but other than that I think it\u0027s as I said I can give back a bunch of time because as I say it\u0027s a really simple concept what we want to do we like that okay think thank you thank you okay so this will be update so what we\u0027re proposing the method to do on path telemetry collection but it\u0027s a split into their measurement and collecting so this protocol it doesn\u0027t define how the measurement are done there are some suggestions recommendations possible options but it defines how their collection on paths is supported so similar solutions can be found in PTP follow-up messages where there is sufficient characteristic information included in a follower packet so it can be used to do residence time measurement "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:21",
    "text": "or delay measurement to improve clock synchronization and then the similar technique were used in residence time management in propagating 1588 over MPLS domain so what is proposed so this is a just a diagram of HTC domain we have an egress node and we have transit nodes and an egress node and so packet it represents the data the trigger is some condition that triggers the measurement and then there is a HTC follower packet that being injected by the ingress or possibly transit nodes and is consumed by the egress so that this packet should not leave the domain so the operation is quite simple the document now includes more detailed description of the mechanics but their catch is that depending on where this applied their characteristic information to ensure that HTC packet follows the same path of their data packet of the trigger packet that\u0027s encapsulation specific so the follower packet has transport network encapsulation and then HTC similar it may include optionally the profile so to characterize what telemetry information to be collected and then followed by data collected one of specifics of mechanism are that is in HTC is that we are not bounded by the size even of a single follower packet because there there might be a sequence of follower packets on the same path trigger it well caused by one trigger crossing all the transit notes so that\u0027s overcomes the restriction of their amount of information to be collected so comments suggestions were opened for new offers contributions and would like to consider working a reproduction yes please great two questions one is that how do you identify the faculty to be dropped at age because HTC will have its own type okay you preserve the original transport and grab solution but the path may also depend on the other fields which are the layer for information okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:22",
    "text": "so basically what we have and that we\u0027re going into specifics of what\u0027s in document so there are certain mechanics that transit node wait for and how we limit the number of outstanding flows HTC flows for the same service so that basically if there is some like rico\u0027s okay let\u0027s take example SFC recursive fire in between of sft right it can change the path so then it will be generated new follow-up packet which will go to their end to the egress and then egress can really put them together and correlate but thank you yeah but again there might be some edge scenarios that we haven\u0027t considered so I appreciate your thoughts and comments and discussion okay hope it\u0027s not me thank you thank you Greg all right I\u0027m Sami from City there\u0027s a quick update on the IOM cough state terrible version first today I want to recap the intentional discharge this chapter provides a method for diam encapsulating node to determine arm header actually is a dynamic excision traditional om mechanism can such as ICMP peeing our MPs speaking can be used to convey the IOM configuration data is a principle of this job as shown in this diagram I am encapsulating note can catch his ayam configuration data from all I am note along the path the army Kamsa lady note it can send echo request to each note along the path and they received echo reply from this node and the through this process I am configuring encapsulating note can catch the configuration data there are main two changes introduced in the RAM version of this job first change is MTU and here is a key issue for I am in situ OEM and in Section 4.2 of I am data draft it says the maximum number of hops "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:24",
    "text": "and the minimum path MTU of the I am domain to Jim to be known this change in this draft provides a mechanism to know the minimum path MTU of the I am domain and the second the main change is time step in a 0-2 version of data it introduced the new format of time step currently the codes pvp ntp and the p IX e OS x and this change in his job to enable the i/o mean caps ability node to know the format the lens of the time step that\u0027s configured at the decapsulation node next steps ask for more review revises jobs and as Aaron maybe asked for what can go to adoption any comments account thank you I got a couple minutes back quick so we have three more people scheduled if we go over time when you have to drop the last ones but these slides are up and available hello this is how you from Hawaii I\u0027m going to present an alternative method to the Institute Oh am so we all know the data printing m3 now we prefer to use the in band monitoring so IOM is a perfect way to do that it basically is a way to do the in bayonetta geometry it can directly carry the data in the user packet and reflects a real-time experience of user traffic however we can use a passport as an analogy for the institution in that VL stamps a package with a user data collected at each node and accumulated stamps and at some point we can check the stems and shipped it with a some collector it is as the data is it has some advantages for example we don\u0027t need to correlate the data because they all come go together and so data is self describing and also we use a single package to export the accumulated data as so so the overhead is low and we don\u0027t need a lot of for configuration to the network nodes because we carry the instruction in the package however it as a IOM also have some issues first we need a lot of data header parsing and processing and the my incur some performance penalty and also will keep increasing the practice size there are some mq concerns of the packet processing issues to the system that they depend in device also we introduce "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:24",
    "text": "some encapsulation issues for example people has pointed out it\u0027s difficult to encapsulate seen ipv4 network also also for MPS fortunately those two type of networks are most popular today and also the data must be instruction the data must be carry in the plain text that might have some security concerns because if you intercept the packet or you with your temper the data you don\u0027t know its end node and also if the packet is dropped somewhere internet for people not to be able to find where it\u0027s dropped so we have alternatives that we call the PBT post card base I you stand up for carry the data with a user user packet we just send the each the data with independent the export packet to the to the character so it basically are we only need to configure each node to tell on what what kind of day turn are they to need to be collected for each user user packet so we can you can see you and solve all the issues faced by the iom but it does incur some extra cost like we now need to correlate the data because we need to know which side of postcards belong to the same user packet also we may slightly increase export overhead because each individual packet level has its own transport layer header also we need a lot of we need some configurations in the device so that\u0027s why we have the second alternative for that we call that postcard based telemetry instruction aki BTI in this alternative we also include the instruction header in the user packet but we still just export the data with a independent IOM packet so you can see here we this is kind of trade off now we also need to pass a packet but to the package size we\u0027ll just a slightly inflated with the actor the instruction header but is no longer increase the size as a pass on the 14 pass it still has the encapsulation issues but you know now we don\u0027t need to correlate the data because the instruction in the instruction header we can carry the flow identifier and a packet sequence number so we can easily to identify that the postcards so also there\u0027s no need to configuration and because the instruction header will carry all the other informations we need to tell node what to do so this I skip this lines this as a PBT I show the format of the instruction header you can see some something in addition to the what has been defined by IOM we also adds the sequence number and the flow ID we believe that\u0027s a very useful so next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:24",
    "text": "step we want to collect more feedback from the working group and oh yeah actually building the prototype on this and we likely it was for adoption later okay quickly added information the first so I you that we found a some diesel scenario neither this is a postcard a basic elementary so there\u0027s a later header after that\u0027s a user for the IP of young we can use this as a postcard because we needed IP IP on Europe or hope to perform to detect the packet loss ratio and the delay so that maybe you would oppose a card abuse at elementary for this scenario second why you talk to many customers they have much concern about the you can see steam the changer of the encapsulation because of the SR receives network programming and I am so that seems so that\u0027s the header of the packet increased bigger and bigger so the matter concern about the existing the network devices so the postcard the master that is also you the one we to try to reduce the requirement to upgrade you disease gene devices alright so we are out of time so we we actually we\u0027ve hit our time limit overall so we have two more lightning talks that had been queued up but I the slides are posted so I think we\u0027re gonna have to push those out apologies for that all right so thank you everyone do we have the blue sheets signed in back I don\u0027t like this I thank you everyone and we will see you in "
  }
]