[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] okay everybody it\u0027s a half pass so let\u0027s start finding our seats and get started so as you can see the the first thing we want to we want to remind everybody about is that is the you note well and agenda bash so here\u0027s the agenda please take a glance at this if you would like to bash it and here is the note well so please read this note well take special note that the note well includes reminders to behave appropriately in this working group we\u0027ll come back to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "that a little louder please if there are no agenda then we\u0027ll move on with the rest of the agenda just a couple of quick notes so I\u0027m David Lawrence this is Ben Schwartz we will be co-chairing this working group forming buff but I also wanted to thank Tim woods in ski and Joe Lorenzo hall for being our note takers on the etherpad if you\u0027d like to follow along to make any Corrections as you go that will also be helpful and Susanne wolf will be our chapter scribe thank you so just in case everybody doesn\u0027t have isn\u0027t coming in with the same understanding of how we got to where we are the chairs thought we would start off with a quick review of of the past couple of years of developments in this area so over the past four years there have been two major standards development efforts that have created new encrypted protocols for DNS so here\u0027s the timeline from 2014 to 2018 of the development of DNS over TLS and DNS over HTTP those began to get significant client of a client implementation starting last year in 2018 so here\u0027s again a timeline of a few of the notable client implementations we just yesterday had a very very important announcement of another in client implementation in the form of Microsoft Windows so this list is now even more incomplete over the past few years there have also been a very large number of server deployments and trial deployments I\u0027ve tried to break these up into a few different categories but if you if you look down this list you\u0027ll see quite a wide range of different kinds of entities that are operating these servers and likely trying to achieve different kinds of purposes using the same underlying protocols just this year there have been a large number of drafts presented to the various working groups related to configuration of DNS client so I certainly won\u0027t go through all of these here but all of these are drafts introduced this year that that affect how DNS clients are configured I suspect there are more that I\u0027ve missed here and and there may well be more coming a couple of these will be presented today only one of them I believe is currently adopted by a working group one thing I\u0027d really like to point out here too is though a lot of the discussion that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "been going on has centered around DNS over HTTPS you can see from these graphs that we are not just talking about DNS over HTTPS we are talking about the evolving DNS landscape and it is not restricted by any stretch of the imagination to only doe they\u0027re also been several drafts that are less focused on on client configuration and more focused on systemic issues that are a result of either DNS over HTTP deployment or other interesting changes over the over the past years in the way that DNS is deployed these also this has been a set of drafts that have come up this year none of these are currently adopted in a working group this year there have been a number of controversies regarding this topic I\u0027m not going to talk through these I\u0027m mostly surfacing these example headlines from the press as a way to remind people to be respectful with your comments during this session that this is a very charged space and we\u0027d like to try to be focused and and productive and cordial and the purpose of our conversation today is to discuss forming a working group this is a working group forming buff this is not a standards development meeting so we are not we are not debating the merits of particular standards proposals and we are definitely not here to argue about controversies in the press and the session is very short only 90 minutes total so so so please try to be brief I will also try to be brief if I remember the agenda right am I am I in the right order here okay then our our next session is I believe 10 minutes our next segment is 10 minutes for presentation and discussion of a proposal by Mozilla I want to emphasize that this is not a standards development meeting the purpose of these presentations here is to provide us with some examples of the kinds of work that a working group might adopt if a working group is formed but we are not here to to talk through a full discussion of these of any standards proposals here thank you Andy all right I think you think you did the chairs yeah so this is um this is less of a proposal right now and more of just kind of like a more of a rapport and explanation of our current experience with rolling out dough and particularly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:07",
    "text": "the use of or calling a canary domain so so Mozilla has taken a inclusive position in terms of enabling go for us users of our products now that one of the side effects well there\u0027s a couple of different side effects which I\u0027m sure a lot of you are aware of but consequences of us doing that is that we were working to mitigate those as much as possible so one of the things that application-based dns does is it bypasses any sort of dns based parental controls that are present on the network so what we want to do is to detect when a network has those even a CMS based parental controls present and then disabled Oh on the assumption that the presence of those parental controls or pulse whatever policies there is wanted by the network operator and is probably more important than then that something day one and it\u0027s supersedes the importance of dome for the user so we have a lot of different heuristics that we\u0027re using to work on this issue to work on some of the other issues but I\u0027m going to be talking about the like marry for parental controls so the big the first issue is that is to detect DNS based parental controls and it\u0027s not it\u0027s not good to like take a experimental approach and like try to trigger this for actual domains because that I think it\u0027s kind of sub obvious but you know if there\u0027s logging or something like that these are these if they\u0027re explicit domains then we don\u0027t want the user to be tagged as having visited them when they actually happened it\u0027s their it\u0027s their software that\u0027s doing that so what we tried to do instead or what we\u0027re trying to do instead is to designate a safe canary domain so canary domain canary in the sense that like the if anybody is familiar with the canary in the coalmine it\u0027s like something not directly related to the thing that you\u0027re trying to determine but it\u0027s a strong indicator of of the finger your finder determines so see if the canary dies and then you know that that that\u0027s the case so so the disadvantage of this is that it requires whoever\u0027s running the policy to actually do something proactive to enable to block this additional domain as opposed to just relying on whatever the you know the current settings up there of their of their software so we tried to make that as easy as possible to do but the the the essence of it is that if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "visit if if the browser or tries to resolve the domain and it gets a blocked or modified results then we deduced that that means that the that epic DNS policy is present and we disabled though so then there can be you can have multiple community drains so obviously you don\u0027t really want that many because it\u0027s kind of a pain to keep track of them and make sure that your you\u0027re heading them all so that\u0027s kind of one of the reasons to be here is to if you have a global or a more common Canary domain than then you don\u0027t have to hit one for ISP a through Z sort of thing so the name of our code our domain is used application DNS net so in as we roll outs making those the defaults we resolve this using the platform DNS and if there\u0027s an error that comes back or if there\u0027s a success result but it doesn\u0027t contain an A or quad a result then we take that as being a positive indication the Canary domain is triggered and disabled though so this requires some work on the server side or in the network side to enable that and we try to make that as easy as possible so if you\u0027re using parental control software then presumably there\u0027s some easy-to-use UI to to flag domains and we\u0027ve also talked to some parental control software providers and that\u0027s something that they\u0027re interested in and adding and sometimes just like hey we\u0027re interested in doing this they\u0027re like oh we already blocked it okay so if you\u0027re using by nine then the use of a response policy zone was a good way to do it and we also heard from other when we started talking about this and blogging about this we heard from some people using other DNS servers where so our initial approach was to just treat an X domain as triggering the canary and we\u0027ve changed that so that any error results and any success result besides that didn\u0027t return any or quad-a was to make some kind of make it easier for whatever your software is to to engage the canary domain if you want to so piehole has added support for it and just kind of my sense is that people are aware of it and we have an email address where people are like commenting on their use of it and it seems like it\u0027s some getting getting some getting some uptake we\u0027re running studies but we\u0027ve been run we\u0027ve been running a lot of studies are leading up to the decision to roll out dough and we continue to do that and looking at the heuristics and the the percentages of users that that are disabling dough or would have dough disabled if depending on the very various heuristics and we\u0027re seeing we\u0027re seeing non amounts non-trivial amounts of of triggering the canary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:07",
    "text": "domain so a contrary to what the slide says I just got an update this morning so Firefox this is only in the United States but dough has rolled out to 1% of the users and is going to be rolling out to another 1% of the users very soon so we\u0027re continuing to monitor all the heuristics but the canary domain usage via lemon tree and one thing that we\u0027re concerned about is that it\u0027s really based upon what the end network operator has decided that they want to do rather than some higher-level network operator so we\u0027re watching for abuse and making making sure that the canary domain blocking is at the end end customer level so here\u0027s a couple pre-emptive why didn\u0027t use why didn\u0027t you wait for Standardization well we floated a extremely flimsy trial balloon about six months ago but we really needed a solution quickly and we especially when we came to the conclusion that we are going to require people to add something or change their configuration in the network some way that we make that as easy as possible and we couldn\u0027t we wanted to make that as easy and as fast as possible and avoid any sort of new versions or anything like that which was kind of some of the initial feedback was well why don\u0027t you you know there was kind of more expansive maybe better solutions but that would have required those software changes but we really needed something pretty quickly the other piece of technical feedback that we received is that instead of looking at a positive results or a positive result being the canary domain fan and resolved that it should be the positive canary result should be the canary design domain resolving so that didn\u0027t seem to be quite as good to us for the two reasons listed there that that was kind of like a little bit I mean if you just like if you have a parental control solution and then you just add another thing to the block list that\u0027s like a very natural thing to do as opposed to as opposed to having the logic be the opposite way and the other piece of that is that the NX domain substitution can cause trouble with that approach as well so that\u0027s basically it we\u0027ve kind of done this thing on our own seems to be working but it is kind of a unilateral thing and we\u0027d like to to look at at sanitization and seeing if they\u0027d be useful for other people and that we could move off that and to more more standard things so increased adoption would be good fewer canary domains will be good that would make it easier for applications we also were a little bit stymied by you know having to have an actual like the dotnet whereas "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "you know if you could be an if it could be in a reserved domain then that might be that might be nicer so we\u0027re interested in working on on a candidate for production so turdy one quick clarifying question then one comment the clarifying question is it appeared from what you were saying that this logic has only invoked if dough is present because of the default if user is configured a dough server would you use the same logic no if someone configures dough on than it is just on thank you thank you for the clarification the other point I wanted says for possible reserved names the IAB is made under DARPA available under much less difficult processes than reserved TLT so you may want to consider whether your reserved domain actually needs to be a TLD to do its function oh yeah we were thinking something under DARPA would be thanks for the clarification on that as well thanks Brian Dixon GoDaddy excuse me you were mentioning that this is one of several heuristics I was wondering if you would be willing to publish or share those and maybe standardize Ogle\u0027s as well well we had there implemented via a plugin which we\u0027ve made public so is that sufficient or I mean we could sure thanks so just to sharpen that point we do publish what the I mean so they published in several ways we have a blog post describes what they do and we have a and then of course the source code for the this is all this is run by a web extension public so you can see directly what they do um unfortunately they\u0027re probably not really suitable for Standardization because they involve because they\u0027re basically looking at operating system api\u0027s looking to see whether someone is configuring on you know a firefox universe firefox properties so I\u0027m not really standardized herbal um though I\u0027m certainly there\u0027s been conversations about the operating system is exposing some API that indicated that the user had made conscious choices like it didn\u0027t like go or some like that our protocol tools were on and I said that\u0027s that\u0027s a potential area for Standardization yeah the more techniques rather than yeah but I was probably bit that that to be driven by the operating system vendors rather than might rather than by their consumers up right before you go I just want to remind everybody this is just an informational session and so quick comments because to keep on the agenda we\u0027re gonna have to move on to the next presentations and my atoms from ICANN I\u0027ll I\u0027ll keep it short the canary domain is use application DNS net it\u0027s a to label domain in binds I need to use as an operator I need to use now policy zones it would be much simpler much more straightforward if I can configure a zone let\u0027s say use application DNS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:10",
    "text": "dotnet and deny the existence of X dot use application DNS dotnet in order to deny it now I either need to use added policy zone which is kind of complex or I need to locally configure the net zone in order to deny use application DNS dotnet so may I suggest to make that domain and have another label in front of it if that makes any sense if if you need more clarification and we could take this off Mike okay spill new horizon it\u0027s a little of a problem to do parental control okay I have another problem about parental control doing it to BIA DNS at the first place I think it\u0027s not full I get to parental control by a DNS in the first place yeah so I\u0027m not quite sure at all you should really help to do things the wrong way by bringing this forward what\u0027s first the commit yeah what people are doing it so yeah doesn\u0027t mean that we need to support them kind of do David\u0027s cannot see there it\u0027s cannot see Google Chrome this Mike is sorry I just wanted to share that there is so for stuff this makes sense to me but also there is precedent the ITF has standardized ipv4 only dot our pub and it\u0027s kind of similar to this where by spec it exists to only return to a records and nothing else and operators override those results to share with clients that there is a dns64 and an at six four on the network so we have precedent for specifically using dns as a way to say hey you override this you by overriding this you get the functionality you want so this seems very similar it makes sense to me yeah and with apologies I\u0027m closing the mic line because Tommy can you come up for your presentation while he\u0027s walking go okay all right Iranian run from Google Android one just comment I found a little confusing is that so the whole presentation focuses on basically the usage for permits on control but I don\u0027t see anything in particular that I mean for me the parents on culture is just like one subset of censorship basically and I don\u0027t see anything in here that you know it\u0027s specific to pirate or control compared to like in general whatever you could use for censorship in general and so considering that I think you know in further communication it might be better to like refer to the general concepts unless there\u0027s like some measure that that makes it so you can only use it for parental control only well yeah it\u0027s a we we\u0027ve been it\u0027s like a it\u0027s a DNS policy so it\u0027s commonly used for parental control but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:10",
    "text": "it could yeah you\u0027re right it could be used for for other things by right my other entities all right hello everyone I\u0027m Tommy Pali from Apple so in light of the fact that this is you know information over you guys there\u0027s you know two sides of this one is to share some of the work that we are doing at Apple as a kind of an operating system-level thing we have a lot of experience of people trying to do dough in the browser right now you know we have people looking at how to do it as an operating system service in the system resolver we\u0027ve done a lot of good feedback already on this also from the teams at Android as well as the Microsoft Windows DNS teams so part of us is to share this information but then hopefully also be kind of the questions we\u0027re trying to address in this as we\u0027re working on design architecture are some of the things that if ABCD is a group it would likely come up and so right now these are a couple documents that we have put forward in deprived and so we\u0027ll be presenting those later in the week if you think that there was make sense in deprived then that maybe influence kind of like where we see this particular group going alright so we have this overall thing we\u0027re calling it adaptive DNS privacy so what does it mean so here we have the normal status quo DNS setup and when we look at the different parties involved we have our client device it\u0027s talking to some local resolver generally at least a locally provisioned resolver using standard DNS over UDP port 53 and then there\u0027s some actual origin server that I\u0027m connecting to example comm so what we\u0027ve seen with a lot of the doe deployments so far is something that\u0027s a little bit more like this we are you know potentially skipping that first step and we have some other external public for cursive Doe that we\u0027re using instead to replace that role so that achieves some goals I think people are doing this because of privacy but it also has other concerns that have been clearly brought up on the ad D list and others so when I look at this from the point of view of the operating system there\u0027s a couple of different questions that come to mind and I want to go through those what we\u0027re thinking here as some of the prompts for this group so first how do we as a client discover the different encrypted resolvers that are available not necessarily when to use them with just their existence next how do we understand the local policy of the network that\u0027s kind of like the canario domain that we just saw and then kind of the big one if we\u0027re doing this at a system level and not just in a browser like how do we know as a client what are the right things to use at the right times because there can be some very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:11",
    "text": "complex scenarios going on so I\u0027m gonna go through all three of these and that will be the talk so first how do we discover different resolvers so there\u0027s a couple of different options I think what we\u0027re seeing today oftentimes we have some hard-coded lists of things that we\u0027ve white listed and audited in that\u0027s one approach certainly you can also there have been proposals to like bootstrapping off of an HTTP connection I\u0027m you almost like an alt service type thing that you connect you learn that this thing supports doe and then in the future you start using doe from a privacy perspective that\u0027s not necessarily great because it\u0027s very opportunistic it\u0027s a little bit lazy on that regard so what we\u0027re proposing here this is just one option is actually using records in the DNS ideally DNS sex signed records that can prove some official designation of what a zone wants to use as its associated trust the resolver the point of this is saying that if I\u0027m going to a Google domain then it\u0027s probably appropriate to use a Google resolver it\u0027ll have accurate results it will allow us to do connection coalescing and it actually kind of makes this it reduces the number of parties that are involved in this overall system which is a good privacy benefit and it just as a quick aside here we know one of the things of course that\u0027s been coming up is the choice of protocol and so I want to explain why we\u0027re talking about doe here even though of course you know dot is available oftentimes the choice of doe is being described as a you know a way to hide the traffic to make it invisible that we\u0027re doing DNS resolution that maybe some people school but I think in this case there are a lot of other benefits of doe that I do want to highlight it allows us to do multiplexing and if we are indeed doing resolution of Google names to Google servers there\u0027s a much higher chance that we\u0027re going to end up seeing coalescing and getting benefit of multiplexing it also allows us to get more of a direct transition to quick we can go from HTTP to to HTTP 3 without redefining a protocol mapping it also allows proxying requests which I\u0027ll get into a bit later so essentially the world with a designated DNS service a designated dose over kind of looks like this we still have our local resolver but we\u0027re also aware that there is a designation for example.com to a certain resolver that may be a public resolver that\u0027s handling its resolution so then we also want to look at how do we handle local policy that\u0027s being advertised so again we have options like doing canary domains this is I think a really good first step although maybe it\u0027s not the long term architecture that we want you can also put things in DHCP or RA options what we\u0027re doing right here is using something that we are it\u0027s in tension off of off of Ras called "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:12",
    "text": "provisioning domains it allows us to fetch a fairly large blob that\u0027s fetched off of a HTTPS connection is a JSON blob that\u0027s a bit flexible here and we imagine that this type of information can be used to indicate walled garden status captive status as well as filtering rules and so it\u0027s essentially how do I use this network what are the things that are available and one of the important things here also is the even in cases in which I\u0027m allowed to use DOE to public services we may want to break out certain services locally so you know I have Comcast as my ISP and if I have local Xfinity streaming services that are very well optimized it\u0027d be great to do my dns and ideally do-- to Comcast over the local network the same goes for enterprise network scenarios in which we need to know kind of like the split DNS world here so we need to be very cognizant of split DNS as we are doing this solution for local networks so we kind of get a world like this in which we have different DOE servers hanging about this is can just be for reference this is the type of thing that we\u0027re currently defining that the local network can indicate we as we had some discussions with various ISPs and I think we\u0027re gonna have scenarios in which we have some required filtering in which it\u0027s like oh let\u0027s say I have a school environment this really needs to be locked down and essentially indicating ahead of time we will block you if you try to evade this and like that\u0027s going to be bad news but you can also have things that are more opt-in services of saying this is a parental controls that\u0027s nice to do but if the user does specify a specific dose server they want to use as an override or if they\u0027re in some private browsing mode they would be allowed to go and the network wouldn\u0027t actively block those connections so be good to know that type of stance as well and lastly the draft that we have the adaptive DNS one talks a lot about the client algorithm for what\u0027s the right thing to use I think this is going to be at the heart of a lot of stuff that may come up in this often in this group so here\u0027s like a little flowchart of kind of the precedents of how we would follow through things because we need to take into account things like VPNs that like we must do first we don\u0027t want to have the idea of DOE servers kind of overriding things that we have this enterprise type policy we also want to make sure that we do highly respect the services that are local that are either on our home network local network are things that we know are locally provisioned and we can have proof that these are things that the local network is truly authoritative for we also want to then kind of use these provable designations for other public services we have a way to do for like a privacy mode we\u0027re also proposing an oblivious doe mechanism for cases which we don\u0027t trust the network and then kind of like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:12",
    "text": "the last case is using the direct scenario so overall the picture can get pretty complicated a lot of different things going all over the place this is you know one way the world can work one question that can come up on all of this is how do we bootstrap this world if we you know so there are different ways of setting up these designations if we do trust the local network and we aren\u0027t too worried about things then you know I connect to Google I do a resolution for Google the first time I say Oh Google has a public doser that I can use I bootstrap off of that if I don\u0027t trust the local network that\u0027s what we have this scenario for oblivious Doe going on and you can find out more about that at deprive anyway so that\u0027s it we do have some drafts they are in deprive you can file issues read about them make full requests at the github and we also have some sample code that\u0027s available all right Tommy so on one thing that I\u0027ve been trying to sort out is um well so as you know we have this problem with yes and I we are we\u0027re what single domain is serving multiple CD ends so I think you see we\u0027re about to go with this um so what happens if um say I have a domain which is served by um you know to CDN store call a and B um and on and a decide and so when I content and a decides to publish a record saying that it should be the designated server for a badge domain um what is the impact of that on doesn\u0027t that effectively pin me to a more or less indefinitely right so this this is one of the kind of issues and so if we\u0027re looking at just as a quick answer I think there\u0027s two general approaches we can take what we\u0027re using to communicate this designation is actually the same record that we\u0027re going to be using for yes and I and so you could have just two designations and presumably if I\u0027m doing more resolutions through A\u0027s Doh server it should also not hide the fact that there is a destination for B as well and there\u0027s another solution that you could imagine is that the owner of the domain that\u0027s doing the load balancing between the CDNs does have essentially either one of them or some third entity as the one designated thing that\u0027s doing the load balancing sure my concern is the each of them decides to do anything so it\u0027s designated and then not tell you about the other not tell you the other one and then and then effectively you get you effect that what this does that the status quo gets pinned at one particular load balancing such a set and then it never can be changed because um you know right so I think that\u0027s a almost considered rel so that I we didn\u0027t offline but there\u0027s definitely something good to explore it work komari Google can you go back to 14 it\u0027s possible I\u0027m asking the same question as acre but I\u0027m not sure yes so for the designated doe server mmm can I also say that the google.com servers should be able to resolve YouTube yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:12",
    "text": "can I also say that they should be able to resolve Apple right this is where you know the notion of okay we\u0027re to get the authority from so what we are saying this document is these records that give these designations should be DNS X science so that we have proof that the person who does have authority over that name is truly indicating this relationship not everyone loves DNS SEC but I think it points to that you need some way to prove this relationship that you can\u0027t just claim authority over something else right that\u0027s general for any solution I think yeah so first I want to thank you I think this is very interesting and I put this will be very very useful one of my concerns at least with some of the deployment models has been that you end up with two months centralization and you\u0027re able to provide you know multiple parties that provide different types of services so so that that\u0027s a big improvement so so that\u0027s good I did have one more technical question about do you support the case where or what are you doing in a situation where multiple parties might be sort of like you would end up with multiple entities that can resolve a particular name or do you have that case to begin with well this is kind of similar to a curse point I made against the fact that a doe server could resolve multiple many things like a lot of these could be and if I talk to cloud fire for something or quad 8 it can resolve the whole internet the question is when should I do it and it gets into the notion of do I have a strong designation an indication from the zone owner some signed record that says yes this is the thing you should be used for this period of time so I think it\u0027s gets into the same conversation so I think we should kind of nip that all together yeah all right thanks thank you I\u0027ll come on I loved in a sec so that\u0027s the part of the draft I certainly approve of and I mean there\u0027s a more I think probably technical discussion on on on Friday yes so the one thing that concerns me a bit I mean it is a fairly complex picture um how are you going to back this or how can we make sure that it\u0027s kind of bulletproof so that my ISP doesn\u0027t get a call for me because doesn\u0027t work right right so I think we can dig into this more there\u0027s you know different scenarios like let\u0027s say that I am in a case I am trusting my peace is P for the bootstrapping at that point it would know the first time I talk into a given zone right like the first time I talk resolve Google and then at that point Google becomes encrypted over dough so you know hopefully it would be able to debug kind of like those initial things and then essentially any name that I see off of Google after that point it\u0027s kind of the Google servers fault if there\u0027s a problem there so and potentially because we will have official records within the DNS our DNS exile records that are public about which domains are going to which places we\u0027ll be able to have trace down where the errors may be occurring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:13",
    "text": "and know who\u0027s the authority to but you want to then expose that to the user and so things to be clear we\u0027re a little behind on the agenda so the lines definitely close after Brian and I think this is an excellent example though of why bringing in this work to the IETF can ferret out all the corner cases and the interesting things well when I\u0027ve nailed down rebellious IC I can you go back 114 it\u0027s on one yeah so there\u0027s at least one box missing on that one which is names that are not DNS names for example you saw from NS switch Kampf so yet C localhost other naming systems that are not DNS yep stuff that the operating system will do for free if you\u0027re using gaturro phone anymore similar yes it\u0027s a great white finally an issue Brian Dixon Go Daddy go forward a slide or two yeah so what I\u0027m wondering about is from a scalability and caching perspective whether having the client flipped from one to another to another resolver whether it might be worth considering having the fourth the first one be a forwarder and can take the advantage of the scalability of client queries anybody who\u0027s connected to the closest cache to them forwarding is going to benefit if other people are making the same kind of queries plus it\u0027s gonna have more local benefit yeah that\u0027s fair you know there is definitely the privacy aspect in which we don\u0027t necessarily want to put all of our names through something that can see things that we don\u0027t trust also one of the benefits of going to things that are not necessarily authorities but something that are designated is that they should have really high hit rates right like so if I go to you know the Google Doh server and everyone else is going to that particular server for those names or at least their local top of it you should have a pretty high hit rate and they\u0027ll be actually able to really well optimize their content that\u0027s the goal from this it should provide a lot of opportunities to different content providers anyway thank you for the time to want to views anymore of it so we\u0027re now entering the the chartering discussion phase of the meeting and just to kick that off I wanted to show a few slides to remind people what we\u0027re talking about there was an original I\u0027ll take one interruption here just to kind of for those of you not familiar with the process of a working group forming ball what we\u0027re looking here is trying to identify whether there are concrete work items that we could adopt in it that makes sense to have their own working group for us to focus on being able to work toward actual deliverables and of note a couple of things is the final decision of course is not really up to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:13",
    "text": "this room it is ultimately up to the isg but whatever discussion while we are presenting a draft possibility for the Charter we are able we are discussing that here and able to modify it as seems appropriate we will be trying to drill down on some of these stickier questions there and also of note so that the final determination of you know like what we would like to advance to the isg to make a final decision about chartering a working group will of course take as part of normal idea processes will take place online and also important to note although Ben and I were co-chairs of DOE and in our co-chairs of this both we are not necessarily the co-chairs of your new working group that is a separate matter to be determined so if that kind of influences your decision about which way you think things should go that\u0027s a separate issue to the chartering discussion thanks David so there was a when this when this working group forming Boff was announced it was announced with a draft charter in order to solicit feedback that feedback largely came on the a DD mailing list there was quite a bit of discussion of that draft of the Charter based on that feedback we attempted to produce an updated Charter proposal that reflected as much as that feedback as as we could manage and I wanted to highlight some of the differences from that original Charter proposal there\u0027s also since been extensive discussion on the list of this latest draft of the Charter proposal and we\u0027ll have some more discussion of that today so the the first set of notable changes are in what the original draft called initial areas of focus we\u0027ve clearly expanded the the detailing of what these areas are to to try to clarify precisely what it is that might be of interest to this working group and these are intended to be essentially technical and less controversial working group items that more or less reflect the kinds of interests that we saw in this year\u0027s technical drafts that I on client behavior that I mentioned in an earlier slide and the second set of changes are related to what the original draft described as best current practices so the latest draft again changes the phrasing and expands and details some of these potential best practice areas and also in particular adds a a condition for discussion of these working group items that because they are highly controversial that we are going to that this Charter would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:15",
    "text": "would restrict the working groups consideration of these topics to avoid them essentially overwhelming the less controversial topics essentially saying that they can be discussed but they can\u0027t be argued so if you basically if there\u0027s substantial disagreement within the working group those disagreements have to be resolved outside the working group not during working group time in order to allow the working group to continue to make progress on less controversial topics so that is the current proposed charter text I\u0027m also going to pull up here the full the full current draft charter and the the rest of this time is open discussion but as the the first topic I would encourage you to consider especially the question of these controversial topics which has been much debated on the mailing list it seems to me that there are essentially three major major considerations here whether we should essentially keep the text more or less as it is whether we should render these topics as included in the working group scope without any special conditions or whether we should exclude them entirely and one last thing that I\u0027d like to request as you\u0027re making your microphone comments please also offer just a general statement about whether you support the formation of a working group at all and then on that point that been brought up what your particular feeling is as far as resolving or dealing with these controversial areas okay Aaron Faulk Akamai I was confused by the term full consensus in that slide and I was wondering are you trying to set a different standard for how to admit these topics or were you just trying to be clear or because you weren\u0027t that wasn\u0027t clear to me so anyways sure so I think I may be to blame for the full consensus line [Music] my my interpretation of that line is to say that essentially in the course of the working group if somebody comes up to the microphone and says no we\u0027re not gonna do like I don\u0027t want to do it this way then then the the further argument between proponents and opponents on those topics has to happen outside the working group and the working group can move on to other topics I think that\u0027s a really interesting idea that\u0027s not what I thought full consensus that\u0027s not what I understood the phrase to mean so you might want to clarify that gentleman kava random network copywriter I\u0027m excited to see the opinion because I\u0027m a bit scared about potential implications for networks I\u0027m Iranian so it might sounds like a neat picking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:15",
    "text": "but I would love to see dns64 being explicitly mentioned as a sync we need to think about because I suspect some of that behavior might have unexpected implications for v6 only networks is dns64 David Skinner\u0027s a DNS enthusiast could you go back to the slide I think it was changes between the Charter but the first one yes this one those items on the right well first off that\u0027s a lot secondly I so I wouldn\u0027t try to say exactly which ones but a lot of these are already in the Charter of DNS up and that sounds strange to me that this Charter is conflicting with an existing working group and so yes I definitely like to address that particular point in that so in particular as you may recall ABCD is application behavior considering DNS and so the the audience is actually much broader than the typical audience for DNS up and DNS off itself is now three working group chairs and very frequently two sessions every IETF there\u0027s a lot going on in DNS up that and a lot of people that are interested in these other areas are not interested in participating in the full breadth of DNS up and so the you will also have noticed in the draft charter that there\u0027s a paragraph at the end that says you know we will closely be working this working group would be closely working with both deprive and dns off in doing its business and I personally speaking without a hat but just my own personal expectation would be that the chairs of each of the working groups would be working closely to identify which particular working group would be most suited to the type of work that\u0027s being done some of these things I agree I think are more specifically DNS up but quite a few of them it\u0027s I think the questions are a little bit greater where they would find their best home and so the idea for forming the separate working group though is to increase participation from the community that would not normally otherwise participate in the full volume of the NS a-- so thank you does clarify things but i\u0027m not true so maybe someone can tell me if there\u0027s president here but saying that another working group is Genda is too full doesn\u0027t sound like a good reason to form something else and i\u0027m not saying we shouldn\u0027t form this like i\u0027m just saying a lot of these items like dns should be debuggable like that\u0027s an operational issue of the dns and we have a working group for that so i think this needs to be narrowed a lot yarc so i think this a lot of interesting work that could be done everything that we see is so seen today "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:16",
    "text": "I do agree that this list while I like this this list it\u0027s it\u0027s also indeed a little bit long I think these kinds of both meetings go best if you don\u0027t focus too much on where the work actually ends up whether it\u0027s in this working group or some other working group that\u0027s a management issue that you guys in the IES table handle somehow but we should focus on which things actually we we believe are needed and useful and and should be done it now or not yet done obviously if there already are being addressed somewhere else then that we shouldn\u0027t list it here so that\u0027s one comment the other comment is is on your other list and while I you know basically agree with you know much of what is said here I do take exception with one of these items and that is the privacy and pervasive surveillance item and I think it\u0027s our job to worry about things such as the end user privacy and pervasive surveillance and when we are working on these topics like we\u0027re some of the proposed work items include like these architectures that would do you know some kind of distribution and to not be able to analyze what the impacts of those architectures or you know if you don\u0027t do those architecture it is that seems like a major Mis and also I believe it\u0027s so according to our PCPs that we have to address some of these issues if we work on particular pieces of technology thank you so on that topic I would just note that this is not a list of items that are out of scope for the working group this is a list of items where the working group should not engage in in argument if I can pull up follow up briefly so so that I mean III get that but it doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t seem very realistic to be honest and there are some topics they\u0027re hard but you know these are hard things that we actually need to address them our note-taker is helpfully noted that this is a danger danger danger list right on this particular like the ITF as I\u0027ve mentioned in the past one of the challenges is that we very frequently like to say that we don\u0027t do policy but it\u0027s also very clear that a lot of technology we develop greece\u0027s policies kids one direction or the other and in this particular area at least the ITF came out with a very clear statement on how it perceives pervasive monitoring and and therefore the design of protocols are enhancing our our defenses against pervasive surveillance also have this additional problem of blocking benign surveillance and Danger Danger Danger just even using those terms together I realize is a giant minefield but I that the intent of this bullet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:18",
    "text": "point was to say that arguing that point back and forth is not going to be a productive discussion in the working Patrick McManus I\u0027m just for clarity our our chairs acting as proponents of this buff our the chairs acting as proponents of forming this working group I personally am a proponent of the existence of the working group yes so yeah I guess for myself and by the way we would encourage people in the in the line to to tell us what you think on the topic I don\u0027t mean to to be purporting or opposing formation of the working group I I did put some work in we want to make sure that people understand the text we seem to be I mean dialogue where people make comments and then you respond as if you are proponents for the responses and that\u0027s an unusual model and the most important question in front of us is whether this buff has a charter in front of us and that should be used is the basis for a new working group I don\u0027t believe is so for a bunch of reasons it\u0027s one the Charter lacks specificity in fact it actually has almost it has no deliverables in the Charter at all but almost everything is in scope we need consensus that any deliverables have a high chance of success but there\u0027s no clarity and what those deliver both might be the Charter relies on a number of new concepts that are not really normal IETF consensus processes the notion of full consensus and the more novel topic that some things are relevant but the group shall not try and resolve their disagreement on them this has a low probability I would suggest if working at all and you know mostly most importantly this is not a matter of just refining the Charter I really think this is inherent in the nature of what we\u0027re discussing here this is politics that is not well suited to our consensus process so RFC 54:34 has some considerations for a successful Baath we might look at those I miss the scope for the problem well understood and that is people generally understand what the working group will work on I suggest you know there are no deliverables so that\u0027s not really very clear there\u0027s an agreement that the specific set of deliverables are the right set perhaps the null set is the right set of model I\u0027ll go that far I\u0027m is it believed that the working group has a reasonable probability of having success ie in completing the deliverables in the Charter in a timely fashion well there are no deliverables so I guess we kind of got that one in the bag you know and 54-34 also asks for specificity from the both proponents in what questions will be asked because that is the question in front of us I\u0027m still not sure exactly so I think this isn\u0027t ready for a working group Erica squirrel longtime listener first-time caller yeah I mean Patrick that was uh you made me almost irrelevant almost so let\u0027s take a step back remember what happened the history of what\u0027s happened here which is the ITF published specification published oh there was consent specification mission accomplished "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:18",
    "text": "um and then um there was discussion of deployment of the specification vendors made a bunch of choice decisions about different vendors made different decisions and their announcements a bunch of people were sad about those decisions and we\u0027ve now spent a basically the past year um going back and forth between the people with other decisions were good the people for the decisions were bad and um now that\u0027s a perfectly healthy kind of debate I think we have not advanced like one nanometer in uh in actually getting consensus from like the positions we started run um so that\u0027s not been super helpful um and so the question now is what as honnest Ruffini pointed out in montreal we publish technical specifications that\u0027s the purpose of this enterprise we\u0027re all collectively in and so we had asked what technical specifications can we publish that are the output of this work and so the some of the things on your like group one list you know of things we might work on um seemed like interesting ideas i\u0027m on particular interested in number two um there\u0027s way too many there we ought to start small and make some progress on one of them um the second things all the things you do about like at oxford debating society which we are not so i like it is not a good use of our time to attempt to reach resolution on things which you already know we have violent disagreement upon and we do have common ground so I think that while I appreciate your full consensus suggestion I think striking those entirely give you much better and if people wish to discuss those in some other forum perhaps you could find out what that way to do that well I\u0027m not sure if I should maybe let somebody else speak after just so I can compose myself I will let a couple people go ahead mark nottingham i do not think we should contemplate a charter in this form or similar forms for a working group in in my experience working groups set up in this fashion are are very likely to fail you\u0027re building conflict into the charter it\u0027s much better to have something small and distinct that you know you can get agreement on that we want to do this and move that forward and and that in my experience is a much more successful model for a charter I acknowledge we need to continue discussing this we need a forum for that discussion that doesn\u0027t have to be a working group though and what I\u0027m concerned about is is that there are some interesting and I think useful things in this space I especially like Tommy\u0027s proposal that if they were adopted by working group like this they would be put at risk by the circus that would surround it so I strongly against this charter or anything like it hi Brian Trammell I actually kind of like the Charter on the left more than the Charter on the right like this this this looks like I mean people often say the IETF process is terrible because it leads to protocols designed by committee this reads like a charter designed by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:19",
    "text": "committee because it actually was um I think that is a it\u0027s it\u0027s useful to basically have had the discussion to say let\u0027s expand the list of things that were willing to consider because I think there\u0027s a lot of work that needs to be done in this space I\u0027ll say when I was looking at the the two sort of introductory presentations here I was like oh that that all looks like that those look like interesting small well scope questions that would work perfectly in a working group and I can see the deliverable and this sounds great um and maybe saying like going over and saying so both of them had to do with the resolver discovery and sort of the generalized how do I figure out what my environment looks like for resolution which is what\u0027s kind of missing from from doe right like so that\u0027s that\u0027s where the technical friction is here and I would say going back looking at all of the of the input we\u0027ve gotten from the community on sort of the what needs to be in the latest draft and saying let\u0027s pick one pick one and then and then explicitly in the Charter say closer recharter right it\u0027s like doing these in a more serial way will be much more productive you can actually write down deliverables which makes it easy to determine whether write deliverables and it fixes the problem that people came in the door with the beginning Great Lakes so there was all the discovery thing does actually seem like it needs work and it eats work quicker then we\u0027re gonna get to if we argue over the exact scope of the thing on the right um I have opinions about the next slide but I don\u0027t want you to put the next slide up in order to talk about them because it\u0027s kind of like red meat and red flags and so I would say entering a working group based on a much on a cut-down version of this Charter that looks more like the one before the discussion makes sense and you really need to we need to have like it\u0027s gonna require discipline chairs right like it\u0027s not gonna be a thing it\u0027s like hey we\u0027re gonna talk about these things but only like in full consensus is actually gonna be your a list of things we\u0027re not gonna or talk talk about outside of the scope of the very specific technical decisions that we\u0027re making on deliverables so with that caveat I think that that this working group really needs to exist not with this charter but I would hope that we could iterate on this on the list and do like spend something up before Vancouver thank you Jim reads I\u0027m supportive of creating about group something supposed to the slides and I\u0027m totally happy with the chapter that\u0027s before the draft updated chatter this been in place the moment I think the choice of these mods for consensus is perhaps me what button forts it because that\u0027s creatively stifling fusion misunderstandings and that\u0027s maybe something needs to be tweaked yes some of the deliverables or maybe could be fleshed out a little bit more but I have to disagree with from the points that mark was meeting or about the potential for this thing to go on go go for add fairly very quickly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:19",
    "text": "when we discuss on the topics that we discussed before I think most probes yes there are theoretical possibility and provided the work unit behaves itself again that\u0027s maybe a bit of an unknown if they wanna get behaved itself there shouldn\u0027t be a crime a problem and if we get into territory which is likely to cross lack of consensus or people start to misbehave that\u0027s really be down to the working group cheers to intervene and to get people to either see sense or shut up or behave themselves and if you\u0027ve got a strong working group Cheers a strong ad to meet those kind of interventions in a timely manner before things go off at tangent so we end up having a slimy match then things should keep themselves pretty much in line yes as a theater grist that things could maybe go wrong but before you\u0027ve got the right leadership and I have to give common sense this shouldn\u0027t happen maybe I\u0027m just being too optimistic about that but I think we can solve these problems if they too much difficulty and get down to the job of solving the real issues such as the ones that we\u0027ve been talked about before do the two presentations before going to the Charter discussion thank you Brian Dixon GoDaddy there\u0027s one thing on I think the next slide op that forward just for a second from the right hand side the first bullet I think that bullet point might better be handled through making that a required element of any working group draft as a section the same as currently there\u0027s a security requirements requirements for a security section given the nature and scope of the the working group if it forms I think that would be sufficient for addressing that and please get rid of that slide go back one sorry on the issue of some of the the consensus specifically the single person saying no that\u0027s a huge red flag for me from a process this this flies back to my experience over the last twenty years in the ITF where there\u0027s been a lot of bad behavior that is under the covers or behind the scenes that has been alluded to by various different people and it\u0027s left a lot of bad tastes and a lot of people\u0027s mouths this is exactly the wrong approach to take in my opinion I would prefer to see something a little more neutral geared towards a strong working group chair and something that at least requires something like a Robert\u0027s Rules you know nominate and second we really want to avoid blocking valid and valuable contributions and discussions even if they are contentious general rough consensus is not the same as unanimity and I think that it\u0027s extremely important in some of the issues and thirdly from a process perspective I think something having been previously established in some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:20",
    "text": "working groups somewhere should not preempt revisiting some of those discussions there\u0027s a specific to one particular area but I think as a process we should be opening open to discussing those without being you know obstinate or uncooperative and strong working group the chair is critical to the whole thing as a general comment I would say I\u0027m in form of I\u0027m in favor of forming the working group I believe for the working group content it would make more sense for maybe I\u0027m more structured rather than a simple linear list - maybe group things together that belong together so they can be prioritized and linked together and then ask for volunteers to write the material and to review it following the precedent from DNS xed which predates dns off that process worked extremely well anyway those are my comments Suz if you could wait I think let\u0027s switch back my confront my keys alternating okay Nalini Elkins I would like to support very much that the support for debugging and analysis and also put in measurement there was just recently an IEP G presentation where it appears that multiple queries are sent where one who would have expected one query for reasons that are not well understood and these are exactly the kind of issues that we need to be able to understand on certainly the networks that I work on which are large enterprise networks we need to be able to manage these protocols understand what the traffic is so I and I would like to see that built in baked into the protocol Suzanne Wolfe first is jabber scribe and then I\u0027m gonna plead for the chairs indulgence for a very brief comment as Deanna Saab co-chair first from the jabber room Chris lemons I\u0027m significantly in favor of working group formation it\u0027s unclear to me how to put discussion in scope but not resolution of disagreement resolution of disagreement is a major part of what working groups do every working group has to narrow scope of discussion sometimes taking the discussion offline to breakouts when topics get hot in order to get things done I think monitoring that conversation is just part of the admittedly difficult work of the chairs I don\u0027t know how that Charter should put these topics out of scope particularly since we\u0027d benefit significantly if we came to consensus on some of those topics further responding the Patrick Chris lemons while it\u0027s true that the Charter could use improved specificity and deliverables it\u0027s inaccurate to say that there are no deliverables present there are several specific topics in the Charter like discovery of resolvers dns push and such that could certainly be turned into the basis for the specific working group items fairly directly also as dan Asaf co-chair the DNS op Charter and this one might in fact need some further "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:21",
    "text": "discussion to refine what goes where but with that said the current day and I thought Charter was designed in part significantly so that we could in fact push off work to other working groups to support having a narrower or more specific set of and constituents in a dedicated working group so for any of the encrypted DNS topics for the application specific aspects of these topics certainly I think that what what David said as chair of this session is true that the two working groups would collaborate closely at the idea and at the area and the Cheras level but also you know and that the DNS table co-chairs would be happy to discuss which items belong where but there is nothing wrong in under terms of DNS aw history or charter with saying there\u0027s a specific set of work items here they\u0027re related to each other there requires specific expertise and interests that are not necessarily present in DNS op for all of the other things DNS op does and there\u0027s no reason not to do this if the work items can be grouped and managed properly you want to go to the back ok ELISA Cooper I just wanted to respond to a couple of things that have been said if my response to Brian actually both of these were designed by committee so take that for what it\u0027s worth and just piling on to what sue said someone had asked like if there\u0027s a working group that\u0027s overloaded is is that reason enough to create another working group I think there\u0027s there\u0027s a lot of precedent in the art area for splitting off related topics just so that you can have you know more chairs more meeting time a little bit more of a focused audience it\u0027s something that we\u0027ve done with with several protocols in the art area so I think there is you know some precedent for for doing that I think given the nature of of this set of topics well I I respect the the impetus to attempt some process innovation is actually like the worst kind of of topic to try that we have a process it has you know it has its faults and strengths but we kind of know how it works and for something that\u0027s as messy as this people might want to think about maybe we should just use it the way that we know that it is as opposed to you know the full consensus thing and you know trying to overly manage the the contention and the last thing I will say is that one thing I\u0027ve noticed about this discussion is that people are getting to the point ER maybe already at the point where there\u0027s they\u0027re so dug in that like the person comes to the mic you\u0027re reflexively know whether you\u0027re gonna agree or disagree with them before they\u0027ve even open their mouth and I really think that finding a small set of focused work items that people could collaborate on to actually feel like they accomplished something together as opposed to sitting in your own camp is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:21",
    "text": "probably the only way to make forward progress here oh yeah hadra gambling for one I\u0027m consulting just building on that last set of comments I think it\u0027s self-evident there\u0027s a need for a working group there\u0027s stuff here that needs to be done that doesn\u0027t sit well anywhere else the two slides there\u0027s far too much for a working group [Music] I think the second slide there\u0027s nothing there of merit that fits in a working group it nor looks like policy the first slide if you took the first four bullet points on the right hand side that looks sufficient for a working group so I\u0027d make it much more focused as I say just agree with what was just said take those top four bullets on the right hand side jettison the rest there\u0027s more than enough to be done it needs to be done working group thank you fahan Baker could you go back to the slide with the bits that the next one I think yeah I\u0027m very supportive of the idea of alternative ways of doing DNS resolution I proposed a few over you know the past ten years whatever I\u0027m quite worried about this whole thing and the way it\u0027s been presented here I\u0027m really worried about this idea of full consensus because basically what you end up doing is by you give a pre-emptive veto on certain approaches and you know all security is going to change the balance of power it\u0027s always going to take security SI power away from one group of people and give it to another and if that group of people you\u0027re taking it away from is criminals that\u0027s a good thing the question though you know we tend to focus on who are you taking the power away from and what we don\u0027t focus on enough is who you\u0027re giving it to and I think that this is one of the problems with doe was that it wasn\u0027t you know people thought oh we\u0027re taking it away from the people who are intercepting and doing these bad stuff and you didn\u0027t think closely enough as to who you were giving the power to instead and how they were going to be accountable and what I think that we need to do is always think about giving power to the user to the individual and whenever you do that you\u0027re doing the right thing back microphone okay a rebel si si I think there\u0027s definitely some very interesting work to be done I don\u0027t think AR T is the place to do it I view DNS as fundamentally it\u0027s a system service not an application "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:21",
    "text": "service and the bulk of those items that I see there on that list I think a perfect fit for int area scope and it should not be part of AR T so I think we should form this working group I mean we\u0027ve talked a couple of light years now about the problems and we haven\u0027t got any closer to resolution and I think one of the reasons is that we have don\u0027t have a structured discussion isn\u0027t and that\u0027s what I was hoping we\u0027ll get when we have that working group to actually get the stuff done and when you look at the to the left and right side I mean if you think the left side through a lot of the stuff on the right side she comes through so just I mean get it done okay Paul machine I have just gone through the draft the draft charter and the latest changes mention about dealing with topics such as smaller detection privacy and pervasive surveillance and also policy controls don\u0027t you think that you are handling more than you can chew given that you also mentioned you need full consensus and that\u0027s not easy to get thank you oh yeah Chris box bTW so I support the creation of awakened group to solve this if you go to the previous slide please so I\u0027d like that working group to have a specific narrow achievable focus which a lot of people have said I totally agree with that so the list on the left there is a little short the one on the right you could trim a couple of items from that but yeah essentially the message is make it make it short and applicable and achievable so that we can make some progress and the other thing is yes somehow or other work out one working group that is going to address dis resolve with discovery I don\u0027t mind where it is it just needs to be in one place plan D and Comcast NBC Universal couple comments first of all I do support the creation of the working group I think it\u0027s going we eat with either lists left or right it has some very valuable topics on there which the community of both users and I CFR is really good benefit from people getting together and working on so I think it\u0027s important there\u0027s material in the Charter and other discussions here though about creating a sort of an adjunct or a modified ITF process for getting through the contentious parts of this I think that\u0027s a mistake I believe in the ITF process it can be painful at times but I believe built into it is ways of getting through these contentious issues sometimes by the way are the ITF process results in no consensus and that is an indicator that\u0027s valid we don\u0027t have to always drive to an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:22",
    "text": "answer but I think there\u0027s work we can get to an answer I think there\u0027s especially if we eliminate discussions which are very policy centric that gets into territory that is sort of outside the scope of the traditional ITF and I think maybe that would remove some of the crazier contentious feelings that go on and limit and focus the work to something that could produce results so exactly what I said Mady delist I\u0027m just up here at the microphone repeating it so I support creation change I support education about working group specifically a new working group with it because I think we need a community which is broader than the dinosaur pond and this is because there is actual technical work that is to be done I mean there are three different deployment models that are emerging and rather than arguing and you see which of the three is better I think put three all three of them need some technical parts are missing I mean the people that want to use DoD and the people that want to use geo HPT existing solvers need the resolve discovery part and possibly other ponies discovery path additional things the people that want to do H to their own is order or multiple solvers now realize that they still need to discover whether there is any local policy so that all the Kennelly domain is coming up and that is also something that needs to be standardized because I mean seen from the view of from the viewpoint of a DNS operator I hope I will not have to support the ten different cannily domain mechanisms to be compatible with all ten different clients that might want to go that way so I think that there is some pretty urgent I\u0027d say technical work that needs to be done to actually make deployment of entropy DNS more quicker and more broadly adopted I will also point out that I mean I I love discussing that the second slide not the police part of the hardest issues but I also think that this is not the right place maybe possibly to to have that discussion first of all because there are other people as a non-technical stakeholders that want to be involved in those discussions and that are already discussing this I mean so I think especially they people that are going for third more than we\u0027ll hear from governments from the protection authorities from law enforcement people about all the problems that they\u0027re deploying model is causing and then I don\u0027t want to enter in that\u0027s right that\u0027s wrong and how the discussion will in that but they think this is a discussion that is much broader than the IDF in the technical community so I think it\u0027s even better maybe if we don\u0027t have it here thank you just a quick note we only have ten minutes left in the session and nine people in line so please keep pieces things succinctly two minutes rich sauce Akamai I don\u0027t have much of an opinion but if it goes in with the process changes that I\u0027m very strongly opposed to forming a working group I\u0027ve given the newcomers tutorial for about three years now and two points that we make our rough consensus not everybody has to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:22",
    "text": "get all their answers solved and a we succeeded making a standard if if it gets deployed and so if somebody can veto discussion or a thread that might be prevent them from participating then this thing is not gonna get universally deployed so it\u0027ll fail well I\u0027d really hate for us to do something also that is against our history no actual real point of pride right the slide rough consensus and running code Oh accepted this one group where it\u0027s only running code that counts also I want to point out we had an example in the TLS group I\u0027ll use the phrase Enterprise TLS right with static RSA and the way we got around it the way we addressed it is we got consensus within the group to stop discussing it and that\u0027s that\u0027s what you should do here if when you find problems that are gonna prevent forward progress the group can say oh yeah it\u0027s more important for us to do progress therefore we will have consensus to stop it and it\u0027s up to the chairs to not let the topic come back thank you someone Thompson I\u0027m gonna go back to what Patrick the Menace said here and I\u0027m hearing from a lot of people that they want to do this in a working group without specifying what this is and from this set of things that you have AB on screen here I don\u0027t know that we\u0027re talking about the same thing and I suspect that the problem here could be addressed simply by saying oh well we had a great discussion about sorts of things that people might want want to do in this room here but if we want to continue we need to have more concrete and focused discussions about specific things probably backed by as rich pointed out some sort of running code or at least specific proposals and I I saw one on the screen today that was working group sized almost you know from Tommy which I thought was maybe this organization wants to take that on and I heard a number of different things from different people on this list and I think that if we set something up with this sort of octopus style scope we\u0027re going to fail in ways that new ways that I can\u0027t imagine yes I think echo is in line first okay I think you actually hear first but I\u0027m happy to talk yeah on so now six minutes from the end of the session so um you know truthfully we try to end these things with some sort of hums that maybe that\u0027s not possible but I\u0027d like to see if maybe we can um so um you know back in the day when used to actually try to edit these charters in the screen and that was except for cool um so I\u0027m gonna like make a save one of those things like a charter that basically has the first three items on this list on the right do people want to do and nothing else and a recharter for later than that now something could actually home on a lot shirt this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:24",
    "text": "exactly the thing a lot perfect yes um like um I mean I think there\u0027s no sense there\u0027s no sense in which we could do hung on a this that was like any any any you like did with the discussion we\u0027ve had so far that wasn\u0027t like that like hyper concrete like I just described so um like now maybe we can do nothing and say like there\u0027s no consensus but if you want if you want to get consensus on something it\u0027s gonna have to be something like that hi cursed EP \u0026 CSC so I just wanted to note some of their changes and the topics that were suggested to be contentious so one of them is about the detection and suppression of malware which I\u0027d like to think at least the aim is not contentious whether you disagree on the method fine but I\u0027d like to hope their least everyone can agree roughly on the aim that it\u0027s not a good thing in 2019 to not at least discuss it and currently with DNS we see a lot of benefit from various malware filtering solutions it\u0027s all evidence we have the protective DNS service in the UK which has been shown to provide great malware defense actually and we\u0027ve got quite a lot statistics to back that up and what I would like to see is some discussion about a users security experience not being degraded without their knowledge and I think to suppress any discussion around that is really quite a dangerous thing and I\u0027m for forming a working group I think these are very important issues that need to be discussed Thank You Ezra Barnes I\u0027ll be real brief I there I feel like there there is probably a working group in somewhere in this that I could support I do not support the formation of a working group with any of the Charter versions heretofore produced I think Elissa Cooper and Patrick McManus kind of broadly got the the the right approach here which is that we need to have some tight focus with clear deliverables that we can produce some value on which may be among the set here I think yeah as was mentioned Tommy\u0027s draft to capture some of them as well probably this kind of local network capability discovery local resolver capability discovery is is the right zone but I think we need a charter that is much more tightly focused on that before we can make any progress so I\u0027m gonna be brief so I support but reached mention so the consensus should not provide the right to veto there\u0027s a first thing and the other thing it\u0027s it\u0027s not because we were trying to address hard question that we should not try to address those so I don\u0027t want to remove those question from the Charter Elliot leer two points first of all we\u0027ve heard a lot about how we shouldn\u0027t innovate process we shouldn\u0027t we we need tight charters to to accomplish work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:24",
    "text": "we\u0027ve identified some work that that can be accomplished of course a working group is not the only vehicle that this organization has and it seems to me the items on the right at least most of them are worth discussing it doesn\u0027t mean they have to be discussed in a working group they can be discussed in an IAB program they can be discussed at a workshop they can be discussed in the IRT F I think the point is that when we make changes to the architecture and there are ramification for those changes there needs to be a vehicle to discuss those changes doesn\u0027t have to be a working group but I would ask the IETF leadership to consider the list on the right and figure out what vehicle the people should use for that for discussion and actually documentation of those issues we got here in in part because Jim and others wrote a draft it was controversial it doesn\u0027t mean that we have to have consensus on everything that he wrote and there are vehicles for producing work where there\u0027s no consensus I want to actually compliment Aubrey who was in the back I think she\u0027s over there we had a very controversial document come up in HR PC and she she actually discussed for instance the meaning of consensus and she wanted to get even further but we ran out of time it was a really good she had a really good presentation and we should think about how we have those discussions because we should take responsibility for the architecture that we\u0027re delivering both the good points and the bad points I had a second point but I\u0027ll leave it at that really quickly we are down to just over a minute left and I want to actually defer to Barry and Alyssa as as whether they are interested in any sort of even on the general question of our people generally in favor let\u0027s put the specific Charter aside right now but generally in favor of focusing in a new working group or passing would be like one hum we could have I\u0027m curious is there anything barrier ELISA would really like to hear from the end of this session listening to the mic discussion this is Barry after listening after listening to the mic discussions that better I don\u0027t see anything right now that we could make a hum on in the time that we don\u0027t have so let\u0027s defer that to the list I hear people wanting to work on something I hear people thinking we can\u0027t come up with an agreement on what we can work on and I hear pretty much universal agreement that the list on the right is too much so we need to refine that on the mailing list I don\u0027t well that\u0027s a Cooper this is not really for today but you know we have the RFC about considerations on how to have a successful bluff and it has like very specific questions that are meant to be answered and if you think about them in advance then it kind of shapes the way the boff goes because then by the end you know that you have to get the answers and I was really hoping that that was gonna happen today and did it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:25",
    "text": "so now I think the task is to try to make that happen on the list which is much harder but I do still think like those questions should be framing people\u0027s thoughts and it\u0027s about like deliverables and who\u0027s gonna do the work and is this the right venue and so on so I would I would encourage you to look back at those even though the bluff is over and think about how you can try to test those on the list yeah so you the three people left at the mic if you\u0027d like to finish up with some comments I\u0027ll go up I\u0027ll be short name is Sanjay Mishra Verizon so I think applications are doing DNS so that\u0027s already the fact so I think keeping that fact in mind I support a working group that is specifically focused on so now the issue is actually that are listed in the latest chap in the right hand side and I think it\u0027s a good list controversial maybe to some on certain things but I think it\u0027s a good list and we should really try and see a consensus on what are the items that we can work on and this group might be a specific venue for those issues so I think I support forming a group here okay so I am amidst a forum for more Ranjha and we strongly support the original version here so discovery policy and BCP Brian Dixon godaddy of the list on the right hand side I definitely am supporting the prime numbered ones two three five and seven thank you everyone for your time we\u0027ll be following up more on the mailing list "
  }
]