[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "foreign X interim meeting and first good time of day for me it's evening for somebody it's morning and somebody today and I'm Valerie Smith love and my coach is Margaret Collin and we are going to discuss drafts that were adopted uh adopted as a working group documents and also a few and dropped a couple of drugs that are candidates for adoption so let's start so first this is a note 12 and uh I think all of you know this very well but it's another time to read it if you forgot so any any contribution to uh during this meeting is considered as a contribution during ATF and I I would also I would I must also say that the meeting is recorded uh so uh this is iitf code of conduct uh it's a relatively new rules but uh chairs are encoded to to remind participants about this code of conduct and so we meeting details so you can find here links for meeting slides for not and for the leap and [Music] so we have to perform a few I mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "administrative tasks and first of all we we need one as a lib scribe I'm not sure we really need it but because the activity there are very few people and I can probably monitor the chat in meteco and anyway we need two note takers any volunteers I'm happy to try and give it a go Alex thank you thank you so I noticed that the notes pointer seems to go to the notes for um the last meeting and I don't know oh I will try okay it's probably my fault because we have to prepare and delete all the old stuff and yes I know I know because it's it's it should be deleted and just replaced with a new stuff from this interim and so Margaret do you want to say something more because I see a hand yeah do we have another um I didn't mean to put on my hands um but do we have another uh notes taker okay a few notes during the first hour then I unfortunately have to leave hi this is okay uh honest if you can help it would be great so and next this is an agenda for the agenda for today's meeting and uh um I think that the first uh is uh chair should provide uh so first uh any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "passion for this agenda so it seems that everybody is happy with this agenda so first I just will provide the status for the current state of the working group and Margaret if you can do this Margaret can you hear me am I unmuted now can you hear me yes okay so can you yes can I what okay I think is everybody on the call probably already knows we adopted three working groups working group documents since ietf 116. um the TLS document which we'll talk about extensively today uh the radius version 1.1 document which we used to refer to as the alpn extensions uh and the radius and TLS psk document um so those three have been adopted they're still being worked on in the working group um and we'll talk about them today we have another document uh that I'm hoping we can make a call to a to adopt today that's um deprecating radius UDP and radius TCP uh it used to be called I think deprecating insecure uses of radius and we will talk about that today and then we've been asked to review a document that Mark and Elliott I think Mark is going to present Mark Grayson uh to us at the end of the meeting today just to give us an idea what they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "doing and get our feedback um so that's that's our status today and we're moving along in schedule as far as I know um but we want we do want to try to get the other documents for our work items adopted and the other thing that we're going to talk about today that's not um not on this slide is when we want our next meeting to be whether we want to have another interim in June before the ietf meeting in Late July or not so be thinking about that because we'll have a discussion on that at the end so so that's our status to date no hopefully no big surprises for anyone there um any questions about that I think honest uh this uh his hand honors do want to say something uh no sorry uh sorry mark Grayson do you have your hand up yeah just a question on reverse COA I saw that sort of timed out and so is the intent to have that adopted uh yes I I think or actually it may be that it was overtaken by a of p.m Alan are you on here do you want to comment on that or tlspsk what's going on with the reverse CLA draft Allen um that's still uh is going forward it's independent of the other ones okay but yeah it expired so oh okay yeah yeah I'll I'll do an update um the thought is if we can get some of the other documents out of the way that hopefully freeze time to finish this rather than working on six different things at the same time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "all right so um why don't we go on to the first discussion um Jan Fred has some slides and I think John Fred you're going to present the slides and then we'll we'll hold off discussion and then hold the discussion at the end is that is that what I will present to start so just a young friend just to say next when you this is six one four okay yeah um yeah so um RFC six six one four piece uh the document that wants to make uh our radius over TLS to propose standard um bumping it up from uh experimental um so uh after the uh working group adoption call um I haven't done any update on the document itself because I'm I have read uh the um other documents that refer to it or that are referred by it and I uh noticed some things uh that would uh yeah that requires a decision on how to move this document forward so if you can go to the next slide foreign [Music] yeah so the uh the current status is that it is currently only a six six one four piece document so um we just have a radius over TLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "um and we don't have uh any specification in it uh yet that uh refers to dtls and uh the specs for TCP usage are also not included in 6614 um currently this means that there's a down reference to a 6x13 which is experimental um and if we want to move radius dtls to proposed standard it would require a separate uh rc7360 piece document um coming from that I've looked at uh all these three documents 6613 6614 and 7360 um and I found some interesting things that I want to run by the working group I have run some of them via the working group in our Yokohama meeting uh but this is more in depth so next slide [Music] um the Cur the first question is uh if we want to merge 6613 and 6614 or why I think it is good to merge them um it's basically 6613 radius over TCP includes some or a lot depending on how you read it uh specification for radius TLS um radius TLS is repeatedly mentioned uh in the specification of 6613 for example there is a specific Watchdog mechanism proposed in section 2 4 of 6613 um they are both experimental for now so if we choose not to merge 6613 in our Beast document then we need to have a down reference to an experimental draft which probably should not be a problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "but um personally I find this has has a little smell to it um so merging 6613 and 6614 means we have one document implementers have to read um and uh we don't have a a lot of uh reference between 66136614 um the comment from Ellen uh to just ignore 6613 um yes 6613 itself could be dropped but um 6614 is based onto um on some details on 6613 so uh especially the connection handling uh mechanisms uh what to do when the TCP connection is closed uh so these things that are relevant to our radius over TLS um although radius over TCP is deprecated anyway um so that's the first thing next slide and now the the second question is what to do with dtls um 6614 radius TLS plus some dips and patches that are actually just written in RFC 67360 is radius over dtls so the the radius dtls RFC is basically read this document apply these patches then you have dtls um so it would be worth a thought to just merge these two documents um have truly identical spec for TLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um because uh probably it's easier to just write it down once than to write it down two times or to reference it and say but these things you have to do differently um and you don't need to open two documents to apply the diff so um it's all again just one document that you need to read in order to understand the complete specification um yeah so these are the the two documents that I was thinking of merging into uh 6614bs document so if you go to the next slide then I have basically four options that are oh sorry the the downsides of merging them um the downside of merging 6613 is maybe there's not a lot of things that need to be updated from the radius TCP um specification downriff to an experimental RFC my personal opinion it has a smell but should not be a problem per se um at merging 6614 and 7360 so TLS and ttls would need some additional specification in the in the document for example that what could be a problem is Canon implementation call itself compliant to the new RFC if it implements only one of TLS or dtls um that's something that we would need to discuss of course the spec would be longer so instead of having one document that specifies exactly what you need to implement if you only want to implement radius TLS then you have to read a document that has a lot of black paper on dtls that you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "don't really need um also we have few difference regarding implementation and security considerations so it would be a longer document with some sections not applying to the current protocol you want to implement if you want to implement only one of them um yeah so these are the downsides that I thought of in the few minutes that I had to prepare the slides so on the next slide I have now I have the options yes hmm sorry I I did not really memorize my slides quite hard um so that the the four options we have from my point of view is first to leave RFC 6614bs as is so we downrived to the experimental 6613 we update specs from 6613 where needed but um don't really update the radius of a TCP draft and uh just keep it as radius TLS plane the second option would to be include 6613 so the TCP is back in the TLs spec we would not have a down reference but we would have a longer specification um the third option is to leave the TCP spec out of the new document but include the 7360 so radius dtls which would result in the combined document for radius TLS and dtls um we could still update our c6613 where we would need it but keep it as a downrive to experimental and the fourth option which is currently"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "my personal favorite is to merge all three documents into one um with the the thought of that we only update 661 3 um to include the specifications that we need for radius TLS and that we actually replace 6614 and 7360 so that's my uh proposal for this working group I think the next slide is only contact information so we can keep this the the previous slide up for the discussion um yeah so um we have multiple choices here um and I think it's important that we see if we can reach some consensus as a group for what we want to do going forward uh so why don't we throw open the floor to um discussion uh I think I'm trying to figure out if I can explain to you how to raise your hand but if I could figure out how to raise my hand I could explain that um so hold on a second while I try to figure that out there should be a hand item right below the the participant view in the top left corner oh look yes there's a hand so if you want to speak raise your hand and uh it's it's right under your name at the top so um and if anyone wants to speak please raise your hand has an opinion on any of these options"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "it's going to be a very short meeting if we get no opinions here uh oh here we have Allen how do I yeah um I I much as I hate enormous documents I I do think um in Frederick's right here merging all three is likely the best um that way we can have you know perhaps a section about connection issues a connection a section about TLS and then a little bit different sections on TLS versus dtls some of the feedback recently from the TLs people or that dtls really should be pronounced TLS and we just call it all the same thing um given given the overlap between the documents I I think it may be useful uh speaking for my myself my own opinion um I I could see it going either way um one thing that wasn't listed in in John Fred's reasoning um was it that makes me say leave it separate is that we need to make smaller changes to the document it would be more of a minimal changes thing uh I I don't object I kind of think Beyond Fred should get to the side since he's editing it um and I don't object to merging them into one document I think when we do that we have to be careful to do two things um one is that it is possible to have separately be able to claim your compliance for the two separately if we're very clear in the document where all the must and shoulds are and stuff what they apply to you know we could say if they don't say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "they apply to both and if they only apply to one it will be made explicit so that you can say which one you implement that would require a little work though I think to make that as clear as possible um also we need to not have I think uh while we have the hood off mentality because there are quite a few implementations at least of radius TLS and I don't think we want to invalidate any of them um and so we want to be and I and I realize there's even a little ambiguity about what they Implement because do they only implement um 66 14 or do they uh also Implement um the stuff in the you know the the diffs that are elsewhere but I um I think we just want to be careful when we're doing this not to turn it into an overhaul of how radius works with TLS and dtls but I think we we you know just making an one document opens up more possibility of of losing sight of that I think we would need to be careful to keep side of it but I don't have any objection to merging them as long as we keep those two things in mind okay a Valerie can as participant uh with no heads I think that the first option is uh really attractive because the TLs and dtls has a lot of overlap and with about six six one three I think it's uh what a little stuff that is relevant as far as I understand it's which took and something like this so probably imagine all these three documents into one is a good idea and I also want to uh speak to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "really what Paul said in the chat uh so Paul is OED he said that he has no strong opinion about what is better so honest yeah I I agree with what uh basically Alan and you Valerie just said um also observing that the differences between TLS and dtls are intentionally uh kept at the minimum and so that kind of suggests that it would be a good idea to treat them in in one go but potentially as Ellen suggested in just pointing out the different section and taking into account that uh someone a company implementing a stack wants to indicate uh compliance to TLS or ddls or potentially both uh so I think that should be accomplishable without a huge effort Alexander hi um I I definitely like the idea of merging everything all together um I think it's um useful as something like an implementer going through and hammering through building and implementation I think it's going to create a bit more work I think that work is probably worth it um I think the existing documents we've got maybe are good for people who have existing implementations and want to bring them up to scratch but definitely a kind of unified document that has everything bundled into ones like this is what you've got to do is useful to someone trying to build this um so I I'm in support of it I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "it's going to be a bit more work um and we'll just have to come up with something to help and Implement to drag them through clicking and screaming to do the right thing okay sounds good John Fred um I thought that just came to my mind also is um do we want to allow usage of only one TLS or dtls or is it maybe even good to say please do both um I'm not exactly sure what the implications are I can't see Arguments for both for and against I I can easily see that someone only one wants to implement one like uh radius over tlse okay I don't think you have to force people to implement posts hickey yeah uh do you hear me now yep okay yeah I would also say that uh one specification would be good and also would say that at this point at least the radius or over TCP and TLS would be the uh more important and one thing that I know that I've that I've seen is also that there are certain platforms where for example ttls may not be available Sunday on those platforms uh one could only implement the uh radio solar TLS and TCP so one spec would be good but it would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "be also good that it would be possible to say that okay uh the implementation is complement with the new specification but it only implements for example the TCP version of it that's it okay sorry bye session drop there for a moment but I'm back uh I think that um from what I heard and I I'm just going to kind of maybe Valerie can tell me if he felt differently I didn't hear any actual objection to moving to one document which was the editor's preferred plan um I agree is there anyone so if there's anyone who objects to um asking unfred to merge these into one document um could you put your hand up and could we could we hear why because it if if something was said along those lines I I didn't hear it I just don't want to say it Margaret just go ahead I just want to say that it's better to to confirm this on the list because uh not several people not everyone can participate in meeting so yeah everyone will everything we decide here will be confirmed on the list um but I don't hear any any objection so we have consensus of the room uh to merge into one document and we will confirm that on the list so um so that's good was there anything else you wanted to to talk about Jan Fred or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "no before we move on no no I think that's good um I I have first step I have made first steps uh for the new document already uh so I I now I can fully commit to to this um and I I don't think that uh someone on the lists will raise uh an objection but if so then of course that would be okay but now I can start with a new uh document and I will have an update then yeah I would I I would guess that I mean just pay based on who's here that the little strong opinions have already weighed in but we will confirm it on the list and you'll see the discussion if if anything seems to change just trying to call up the agenda here because I forget what's next uh radius version 1.1 Allen okay um there's a bunch of slides here so I'll go through them quickly um the the next slide um this is a quick review of how alpn Works um the client connects over TLS to the server and sends a Alp and um TLS header field saying quote radius one one and the server either replies with nothing or Echoes it back alpn has Provisions for sending multiple names from the client um but that's it um once that TLS connection is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "established then you get access requests and access reply or access accept sorry as normal in the TLs connection so next slide um if either end does not send this radius one one string then it falls back to 6x14 so it's completely compatible which is nice uh in terms of making things easier for the end user rather than having every vendor come up with their own thing for how to configure this there's a suggested flag uh to either forbid allow or require it and this actually helps with the negotiation because it's difficult to describe what to do when you receive this string unless there's a flag which says what you do when you receive the string so that's all in the document so if we go to the next slide the code and length fields are unchanged in the packet header based on feedback from the list the identifiers is reserved and replaced with a token the authenticator field is four octet token just like diameter and 12 octets reserved and this allows for 232 packets per connection which solves a long-standing issue with radius next slide um all of the obfuscated attributes are encoded as their underlying data there is some caveats around stuff like user password it has a maximum length"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "limitation um and message authenticator among a few other ones are ignored Chap and Ms chap those were never dealt with by proxies they were just opaque blobs that were copied back and forth so those are unchanged um really the the recommendations in the document there are lots of details on instead of doing all those md5 nonsense just encode the data and stuff it into an attribute next slide So based on questions on the list there's some questions about authentication methods all the authentication methods are entirely unaffected the transport does not affect the authentication right so radius goes over UDP TCP TLS dtls it's all fine the proxies use md5 to encrypt and decrypt stuff like user password but the actual data is unchanged from end to end across multiple hops the benefit now about this is if some site wants to do the full security checklist they can drop chap an MS chat locally and use something else like epls and then their security people can look at the operating system and go yes md5 md4 do not exist on the operating system at all therefore it stiffs compliant um this is a little stronger than what fips actually requires fips just requires that you don't depend on these things for security which radius doesn't but the number one way that people understand fits and the easiest way to ensure you're implementing it is just to ban things like md4 and md5 entirely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "because it's it's too hard to ask the average administrator or the average company to audit an OS do you see whether or not the uses of md4 and md5 fall within the allowed uses in fips it's just easier to ban it next slide so this is implemented um it's not enabled in the default build um because we don't want to break things by default on the other hand if people want to do interoperability testing they can build it with a special flag poke at the configuration a bit and get it working in the end the diff is very very small which leads me to conclude we probably should have done this originally with dtls but that's all water under the bridge it's the kind of thing that can be done in a very small amount of time plus various tests uh next slide so to address Bernard's comments about 6421 in cryptography this document now says among other things that further cryptographic Primitives are forbidden in radius and it should be essentially finishing the research started in 6421 when coupled with moving TLS to standards based um and then yeah the one minor note at the top the negotiation status has to be cached for session resumption because TLS doesn't do this for us so it's a bit annoying um but that's life next slide so some future looking thing considering"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "we're changing radius how does this affect new standards and the answer is by and large it doesn't this document describes how to transform any radius thing into this transport profile so any new radius document that defines attributes that defines new packets whatever look at this document here's how to transform A to B stuff it into the radius11 connection and it's all fine um as part of the cryptographic updates it requires that new standards must use the existing attribute data types um where they are defined in 8044 they can Define new ones but they also must of must use the existing obfuscation methods and not create their own in which case the transformation from obfuscated stuff to clear Tech stuff is defined and it's there um and there's only a couple odd places where it's not possible like protocol error which does some really weird things but in terms of things like the the status realm proposed packet type that could be put into um a radius one one connection with really minor changes um okay uh next slide one second um I believe that should be it um I was trying to think there's one more one more thing also I can think of it later but there's one more thing I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "thought of um comments put your hand up if you wanna do you want to call them um Alex hey hey um that's the on the forbid bit where the alpn negotiation I'm trying to see a useful forbid uh which wouldn't be equivalent to ignore or is there something I'm missing here um so the the flags are um require so allow means hey if the client say talks to me it can do radius TLS or it can do this new one mind stuff either way um require is um require the new one and forbid is require the old style there's no particular reason for adding for bid other than um you know it may be useful and it sort of completes things I guess yeah it was just in my head it felt like an ignore just ignore the 1.1 stuff and go back but yeah that's okay foreign Frederick uh hi uh so uh I have two uh things uh the first thing on page eight on the flight um you say you want to forbid ever any further uh cryptographic Primitives and radius um yeah I I mean I I totally get that but if we at some point want to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "something that resembles end to end cryptography and radius that um the the radius proxies in the middle don't get data um I think the current um choice in the document actually also forbids this um and I'm not sure if you want that sure the okay so perhaps this could be clarified the um goal here is really to forbid perhaps hop by hop cryptographic Primitives in radius um so new ways of obfuscating attributes um and it may be worth mentioning end to end as an example of what could be permitted because that arguably doesn't really Define any new cryptography in in radius I mean wave your hands about how exactly it's done but the point is for anything other than the two ends the data being transported is just opaque data right so the the per connection um data is not using any New cryptographic Primitives if that makes it clear yeah I think that that would be great uh and the second thing just um maybe also a question for for other all the other documents um do we plan to release this document on block um or do we actually plan to release them step by step because if I I would prefer if we release them on block that uh there is no reference to 6614 in it because we're actually trying to replace"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "it our Charter has us releasing them at separate times um I think there's a real question as to whether the deprecation document and I think this was brought up on the list shouldn't only follow the new TLS document or something but the alpn one goes out before the the new um TLS document according to our Charter and and work yeah and I I believe the status of this is also experimental right um in which case it can depend on 6614 and there's no issue okay I I did not realize that that this was actually intended okay any other comments uh there's Matthew are you on mute Matthew hearing nothing not sure what's going on with um mike check your mic status Matthew we can't hear you we're just going to continue and if Matthew comes in he can call out to us um there's been very little uh I would say dispute about this document um on the list and the comments are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "largely um minor and um I would say friendly Amendment type of things or informational question type of things so I the question for this group is are we ready to go to working group last call with this document or do people think that there's anything significant that still needs to be done uh before this document is done so if you have an opinion on that put your hand up and let's talk about that particularly if you have an opinion that there's significant work that still needs to be done Matthew you're you're up again can we hear you this time I found them yeah the one at the top um the um just a couple of comments on the on the 1.1 uh talk about side the the um the things about forbidding things uh crypto for future um uh or basically forbidding any any work with with crypto in in radius in future I'm guessing that's really um because of not radius people not being crypto people so therefore saying it's actually rather than trying to forbid radio forbid crypto it's trying to say that radius experts shouldn't be designing crypto um when I've read through the document in Fair detail a couple of times and that's one thing it just stands out it's saying oh you we're not allowing this in the past and we're not doing it now but we're not allowing you to do something in the future that feels a little bit um a little bit tight um so whether that needs to be just clarified as to the reasoning behind it rather than explicitly saying you can't do this in future because there might be a a reason for it maybe um the other comment was just I mentioned on the list of a few weeks back about um it says implementations must support tlspsk and I think the answer came back so that would be removed and it's still in the latest draft but I didn't know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "whether there was a reason for that or whether that was actually going to um was going to be still in there it just feels like if something's not directly relevant to the um to this particular draft but it's just my company comments yeah I'm happy to remove that comment for tlspsk um it was just sort of thrown in there as part of a grab bag of might not hurt um in terms of from bidding new crypto I I think the move in the iepr for the last couple decades has been to move away from per application cryptography um and just use TLS for our ipsec for almost everything um because once you define an application specific crypto thing it now needs to be agile and negotiate etc etc and you can dump that in your protocol you can just throw your hands up in the air and go yeah we just wrap it all in TLS um generally a lot of application authors and deployment people prefer TLS where these packets are going across the net because your application knows that the data is secure um the issue with ipsec is this is perhaps better for controlled Networks um but your application then has no idea whether the data is being being encrypted so I I think generally it's it's best to just forbid new crypto in a protocol okay thanks yeah um Paul"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "I think I just want to clarify you're not Banning any new cryptography from like Rady's authentication mechanisms you're looking just at how adding Transport Security using TLS or ipsec yes um yes I'll I'll make a note of that um realistically also um and and this is a related but separate issue you know someone wants to come up with a variant of Ms chat based on AES rather than md4 um they could and it could be transported in radius but I suspect other people would complain about that if that happened so I'll make a note on that any other oh Jackie yeah there was some previously a little bit talk about having to sit here a bit so that where all the hope that you're on uh is this something that is uh not part of uh no new crypto Graphics so it's just sort of a marker instruction but it's related to it um not really um so I I put that in as hey it might be useful um feedback from Bernard about sip um he spent 15 years doing sep is that they tried doing something similar in Sip and they realized it was useless um and that's that's the main reason it got ripped out um and there is a certain point to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "if there's a flag which may or may not appear in a packet and anyone along the way can modify the flag um the flag is informative and might be useful but you can't depend on it and if instead you want to have some kind of end-to-end cryptography um that requires a whole lot more work hmm I don't know I think the most recent version of diameter also removed some of the end-to-end encryption are things that they had in the first version yeah if no one finds it useful right um then then I guess you know it might as well not not be there the reason for me putting some of those flags into the packets would be it might make sense especially in a multi-hop proxy environment to have some kind of signaling whether your transport is secure or not um the counter argument really is that this belongs in some kind of routing protocol where when all these proxies connect to each other they make certain promises along the way and that's less of a per packet thing so the packets going back and forth don't really need to know that the routing fabric is secure the routing fabric should take care of it that itself via some out-of-band protocol or some other protocol okay so um honest um yeah just about diameters experience with these end-to-end security mechanisms"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "um of course this was many many years ago and so while conceptually the idea of having Android security over a multi-hop protocol makes a lot of sense the community um the blowing diameter didn't see that need so that was the reason why it didn't um complete in the end but uh maybe maybe now the world is different uh so so you never know things change uh but I think um maybe I need that yeah I I think and this is partly also Bernard's comment um multiple Channel Bernard is he isn't he isn't here um if you're trying to transport data over proxies the proxies are either trusted in which case they see everything or they're untrusted in which case you shouldn't be using them at all um and if you really do want end-to-end security um use Dynamic name lookups and connect directly from client to server and that way you know that there's no proxies involved and your end-to-end encryption is you know there's only two ends no proxies okay um it sounds to me um like uh we need a little bit of clarification in this document about what's meant uh regarding forbidding further cryptographic Primitives uh and um maybe there's one other clarification point um but uh there doesn't seem to be any there still doesn't seem to be any major uh objection to what's in this document so maybe Alan you want to spin it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "wants to to clean those things up and then we'll we'll look at going to a Last Call on the list does that make sense yeah I'll get that out this week okay anybody strongly object to that as the the going forward plan okay so that's that's where we'll go with this um next up we have tlspsk um uh there's only a couple slides here next slide um the the main issue with tlspsk is that 6614 and 7360 said yes you can use it and left it at that um the the issue then is the administrative interfaces um feedback from the community has been that stuff like psks would be useful because certificates are hard on some more information there about why it's hard would be useful I have a discussion in a couple weeks with edurome EU that I'll be going to hopefully I can get a little bit more information there one one known issue with PS or with TLS certificates is that everyone either uses a private CA which has its own issues to manage I'll make something simpler or if you use a public CA you now have the issues of you are lying to the certification authorities um because the public Cas are run by the ca slash browser forum their needs are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "browser needs and that's it so if you go to the the next slide foreign so in terms of tlspsk the one thing which was sort of missed in the previous documents is that you can't just add a psk you also have to have an identity previously in radius the identity was the source IP address in psk you actually have to give an explicit identity because among other things TLS requires it and your client may be behind in that and may change IPS in which case you want to use the TLs identity and not the source IP so the administration interfaces have to be updated to add both of these fields and for security the suggestion is should not use the same shared secret for radius UDP and tlspsk otherwise there's some thought that you could look at the radius traffic crack the secret and then use that to crack the tlspsk sessions so it's best to require that those are substantially different next slide Murray is there a normal slides okay I believe that's it then yes thank you Valerie um there isn't a lot to this document um I mean if we go Whole Hog it might be worth adding it to the conglomerated TLS document in which case it gets enormous um it it depends on how much content there is this is the purpose of this document is really hey not many people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "implemented tlspsk because they didn't know what the heck to do right you now have an identity where does that go how do you configure it um and so everyone gave up and this is really a a documenting of how to use this protocol rather than anything else uh Yen Frederick yeah I think it would be good to keep it separate but to just um back and forth reference uh the two drafts so that they can be published uh I'm I'm fine either way [Music] without looking at the charter um I don't know what what we said in our Milestones about how we were going to publish this but but speaking personally um I don't I don't see the value in making this weight um for the new uh TLS document because it seems to me this is fairly simple and could be done um you know with the experimental radius TLS by people sooner um if it's if we can get it get it out sooner um I'm you know I I I'd be interested to know if anyone else thinks there's a reason to hold it until we do the whole TLS update um I think Alex wants to say something I don't know I don't know what so why don't you call it now if you were I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "mean I think they it's worth keeping this as a separate document I see it more as a how to expose um uh how an implementer really exposes this to the user really um and how they can almost safely use it there's not really I think as Alan touched on earlier there's no meat in there I guess like describing there's no attributes in there there's nothing like that flying around um so I think it's useful as an in some ways as an advisory and it stands on its own quite well outside of any other documents I think um it could be applicable elsewhere like you could swap out radius for anything really in that sort of way uh as this is about TLS psk that's it really [Music] Josh Josh um yeah I I would be important to to merge it in the other document but the reason being that I anticipate this mode of credentialing to be the um the most commonly used um because you know for various reasons not least it just you know it's a it's the analog of what what people are doing today already with radio secrets um and I think it's you know it's a familiar model that people are comfortable with Etc and and once it's implemented in products I just think people will will keep using it so uh I think it's just a matter of just convenience if we're gonna if we're gonna have this documented and it's and if it's going to be the most commonly used method of credentialing we may as well put it as it were in the makeup I guess for me the the point there I mean there's certainly value to having all this in the document hey here's the updated radius TLS document which says"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "everything um there is value in that um but if it's going to be implemented um I think there's there may be benefit to implementing it and Publishing it soon rather than later um if you look at free radius for example it's actually had TLS psk support for close to a decade um we just did something right added the TLs added the psk identity and the psk itself to the configuration um that's there it can be used and there's really nothing stopping the existing and from implementations from slapping in psk and other products independent of any other updates to uh to TLS um Margaret then So speaking just as a participant um I think maybe we should embrace the power of and uh like maybe we could fairly quickly publish a uh experimental version of this to go along with the experimental TLS and then merge them in when the 6614 best is you know and friends is actually published um my concern is this there's just no reason to tie it to something that's going to involve uh it's going to be hooked to multiple other documents and I you know I think 66 14 may spend some time in last call and so forth and this document is very simple and I I I don't I want to get it out sooner but I we could get it out sooner and merge it there's no reason we couldn't do both potentially yeah I'm I'm happy to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "do that I mean if we publish this as experimental depending on 6614 which is experimental and then a year later added into the All-Seeing radius TLS Biz document um I'm happy to do that yeah I wouldn't bother to try to troubleship standards track now with a with a down ref because you know then you're going to justify the down ref and everything and you know we could then just bundle it into the actual standard strike thing when it comes out but but getting it out so people who are implementing this can do it and do it the same way I think we're going to get a lot of interest in in radius TLS uh due to the fact that we've telegraphed that the um ietf is going to deprecate uh radius T radius UDP so um I think that getting this out so that this option is out there and well defined would be valuable you know to do it as soon as possible so that's just my my opinion though so what are you thinking Alan is next steps at this point for this so I I certain update needed what where are you on um document needs an update um I will do that uh probably later this week my goal first is to get the alpn document done and out and I can dump that all out of my queue um in this document uh I don't think it's that complicated the only real complexity in it is TLS one two versus TLS one three where TLS one two you can do psk it's easy but the psk is not tied to the particular TLS method so there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "wave your hands various TLS issues there whereas in tls13 it is tied to the the the the TLs version um but that requires a bunch more work to implement it because now you have to integrate various hash functions and all all that it's a bit of a pain um so the question there is do we go yeah it's probably okay to use psk with tls12 and sort of ignore um various uh various potential security issues or do we say you have to use tls13 in which case there probably needs to be a bit more text explaining how to do that but yeah my hope is Margaret said is this document's fairly small we can get it out soon Paul is that something we could maybe get um you know uh the security area to get someone to look at or get the sector to to weigh in on um because sending them a document they're going to say this is unsafe and it can't be done that way it doesn't seem very useful so I don't know is that something we could get some early review on is whether or not it would be okay to say use this with 1.2 or whether or not we need to require 1.3 in order for this to be we can do a we can ask for a sector review or we can just reach out to um through the TLs working group yeah um so why don't we you know off offline figure out how best to do that but I think getting some early feedback would be better than producing something that you know gets blocked at the end so okay um so we'll I'll send some mail uh to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "you know the chairs and Allen and you and talk about how we how we get that that feedback soon um okay so anything else on that document Alan or are we ready to move on to the next one which is uh yeah I think is it I don't have is it the agenda if I'm just getting back up I think it was deprecating um deprecating yep the radius UDP and radius TCP document yeah um okay so we do the next slide um yes the original intention of the document um well the the original phrasing in the document was deprecating UDP and deprecating radius in part to get people excited and actually paying attention to these issues the biggest issue is that md5 is garbage at this point it's been cracked um given a radius packet a hobbyist can crack all eight character shared secrets in a short period of time and if someone's willing to throw money at it low millions of dollars you can crack radio shared Secrets going up to like 10 or 12 characters um the other issues are that sensitive data such as device information and personal location is sent in the clear um even with stuff like mattinas which is Mac address randomization um I wouldn't be surprised if you could still do some fingerprinting on devices you know looking at uh uh TLS ciphers"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "for example for epls um you could fingerprint particular devices if you wanted to there are also issues with the security of tunnel password when sent in COA packets tunnel password originally depended on the random request authenticator in the access request and access accept CLA packets the request authenticator is all zeros so there's only 12 bits of entropy protecting the tunnel password this has been raised by me on the radius left many years ago and everyone sort of threw up their hands and went well nothing we can do about it now but that is a serious issue for anyone sending tunnel passwords over the net 12 bits of entropy is enough to crack them instantly by anyone um next one next slide so the proposal just used TLS or ipsec Bernard's pushed strongly for ipsec you know has some good points there some of the original radius deployments going back to 95 96 or massive deployments of ipsec um my counter argument to that is there's a big difference between one site deploying ten thousand or a hundred thousand nasas with ipseac and something like Ed your realm where you have 10 000 sites um interconnecting um this document hopefully should be standards track Bernard was arguing against that a little bit however we do have Decades of experience using radius over TLS we have 10 years of experience so ipsec we have 10 years experience with radius over TLS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "um perhaps a little bit less experience with dtls but I know some of the large equipment vendors have been shipping that in their product and in their radius server for many years on next slide so we have some couple of open questions um should this document be standards track uh arguably it can only be standards track if we have a standard track TLS document so there is some dependency there um the issue with using TLS and dtls is for one NPS does not Implement either ones this is the Microsoft radio server um feedback from talking to their product manager is they lasted a change to it many many moons ago and it is dead and it will not be revised and it will not be changed so anyone running a radio server on Microsoft Windows either have to use NPS and not TLS or they have to investigate alternatives also historically and I think one of The Blocking issues with TLS and open source was this long-standing bug in free radius which has now been addressed and so that should help make TLS easier to use and what would happen if the connections would just block unmiss made proxies more unstable than they should have been next slide I think that may be it yes questions Margaret so um speaking as an individual um I I think that we should not I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "that we should link this document to the standards track um publication of of 66 14 bits because I don't think we should deprecate the standards track solution until there's a standards track solution to point to for radius TLS um I also think that uh the question of whether or not this document should be standards track is in a bit in a way in material um what has to happen I think when we deprecate something is that we um I mean typically you write an info document and actually move the previous standard to historical but that's not what we want to do here in a way because um because the previous standard is we're still going to be counting on it and then running it over over TLS so I'm not sure it matters whether this is standards track or not I don't I don't care the question is I guess it's going to update um some standards track documents and in order to update standard documents maybe you have to be standards track I'm I'm not sure procedurally what the right thing is there but yeah and and I I agree so I I for that I do think it may be better to be standing to track and officially you know it it the recent versions have a lot more reason words than the original one which is sort of the shot across about scary people um this is not deprecating radius radius UDP and radius TCP this is deprecating insecure uses of those so if you want to run them on your private Network where you know you have a wire between your Nas and your your radius server that's just fine um so 28.65 and friends are not being moved to historical they are still there they are still valid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "um I believe there may be benefit in terms of publicity I I know people don't pay a lot of attention to experimental versus standards track um but in terms of of marketing and propaganda it may be better to have this a standard track so that you can point at it and go the standard ietf approved way of doing radius is secure and not this is an informational document saying you might want to do this but you really don't have to well I mean we could make it standard strike and explicitly make it update those documents in terms of their applicability and I think that would be the way to do it strongly right right you know but I don't that isn't the big issue to me the big issue to me is what it says obviously but also I think it should come out uh with a a normative reference to us uh the standards track TLS document yeah I agree oh Valerie oh no I just want to uh is it does it need to be standard threat or by starting practice uh so probably it should be discussed with 080 because I think the best current practice is uh well suits for this document it doesn't Define difficult it defines uh that it states that insecure youth should not be uh insecure use should not be used to be prohibited so I wonder why it is not PCB to connect that would be fine too I think uh it's probably a question to our ad oh I mean ultimately if you send a document to the isg they can they can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "choose to publish it on any track they want um but but they're usually representation typically some subtle details and why asking Paul because he's a nurse of the document deprecating iqb1 and so she probably knows much more about all these details between between and it is standard track not BCP but in this case probably BCP is more applicable let's talk about yeah let's talk about that offline and see okay Paul Paul thinks he'd have to sponsor it for whatever we choose to do so foreign anyone think this is a terrible idea anyone think this is a great idea and they think the document needs to work or something I think I mean I think for me part of this is is also sort of just just for me to close that out um there are many many Cloud radius providers compared to say 10 years ago uh pretty much the bulk of them that I've seen just use UDP and I think this is a absolutely horrific practice to use to do and and my sort of offline discussions with them have been it works we're allowed to do it we'll just expose all of our users information and this is for people not even doing Eve right some of them is is pop shop in this chat um and so rather than than trying to do the propaganda way of trying to convince them um my thought here would be marketing and update the uh update the uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "specifications to say this is a bad idea um Margaret yes yeah I mean I haven't really been weighing in because Bernard's been doing a good job and and you and you chi you know agree to add IP sex but I mean it's exactly that case that that we're worried about it in my day job this has nothing to do with being a chair um is that like we have a cloud radius implementation and we use a VPN ipsec um for exactly the reason she just cited so I think there are valid uses for running this over ipsec rather than um because it's not just it's not just the stuff that would go through a proxy uh you know it's the stuff that your your internal clients would send that would let you not only locate that a person is at a particular business but what access point you're accessing I you know could be seen on the wire and so it's I think it's pretty important that you be able to to secure it in that case and and PLS isn't the only way that people are currently doing that so Michael yeah Michael new yes can you all hear me yep yep there you are all right great uh I I do agree with everything you guys have said about this art and uh draft and we're a hub of radius Hub in single digits we have plenty of interconnects using ipsec and using rad Sac um so I'm happy that we're okay with the ipsec and we're not deprecating anything there I guess the only thing I want to point out is that when you move away from the ipsec to the rad side uh version of hearing this you do lose some insight when you're trying to debug packet by packet as to what's going on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "and I think as we move the TLs 1.3 we're going to lose a little further inside because the certificate exchange itself uh will also be encrypted so I guess the only thing I wanted to point out is that I think it would be really helpful for all radius uh vendors and implementers you have very good debugging in all these TLS cases I think many of them could use a little bit extra detail there and uh as we lose that Insight it's going to be important to have as much debugging information as we can get from the application um uh yeah I I argue that it belongs in the draft right um I mean it could go into the TLs document but that documents you know it depends it has to go somewhere right there has to be a suggestion of hey it's not just or defining bytes on the wire and if you implement it or you try and administer these systems it sucks to be you too bad right they they I think this is a good point there really does need to be some tax going by the way when you get something allow the administrator to see what's going on um my my favorite if I can say that in a negative tone my my favorite thing from various products is when you try to use the product and something goes wrong and you get an error and then the error says failed now you're stuck right it is impossible to figure out what's going on whereas if you have some kind of debugging for TLS here's the certificate I got cheers you know everything that was negotiated here's what happened here's what should happen in the future that is is absolutely valuable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "um I know you know for for my work it's not just you can look at the source code we have been pretty obsessive about dumping all of the TLs information there um and the feedback from people using it has been it really really helps understanding what's going on thank you any other comments on on this document okay um so Mark Grayson I think you're up next yep yeah thanks Margaret yeah so I think we didn't get time at uh in Yokohama to describe this uh this draft um draft zero so here we just got a couple of slides um talking about the background I know in particular I guess from a charter perspective we see this as out of Charter and obviously we're very busy on all of the documents that we've just been discussing so we're recognizing we've got that issue but still uh we think we'd like to to share this uh our ideas and get some feedback there's been some initial um a couple of feedbacks on on the mailer so thanks for those in advance and we're working through those issues but I just wanted to provide some background so next slide please yeah so we really see I mean you know when we often talk about radius I guess we we automatically think primarily about Wi-Fi as a wireless technology um what we see is some interesting developments um in in the Bluetooth low energy Market where where obviously Bluetooth started off as this sort of point-to-point wired replacement um and we see new functionality being delivered by that ecosystem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "um uh and in particular the Silicon providers of the Bluetooth access points um have enhanced their access point functionality with with virtual Mac address where the MAC address can effectively follow the peripheral as it moves um in a particular location and so from a a ble perspective that there is a secure bonding process that that happens between a peripheral and a central um and this new functionality delivered by the ecosystem partners then allow that peripheral to migrate its bond between different access points with obviously the back end infrastructure passing the security uh information credentials uh between the the separate access points to achieve that that Mobility so so this is shipping today by ble AP manufacturers and so I guess the opportunity here and this is on the next slide is is to take um those systems and those systems today are quite vendor proprietary uh obviously those vendors are looking to differentiate and enhance their systems for for delivering Mobility but we see um some use cases where uh there is benefit of of providing a a radius interface between two ble centrals in particular that could be for supporting multi-vendor implementations when when different organizations maybe within the administration have deployed different vendors equipment and in the past I would say that ble systems when you bring a new ble application it was often the case that you bought a a silo a vertical stack of of end-to-end systems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "and so it may well be that you have multiple vendors equipment already in place in in networks and so one use case is is to be able to interface between different vendor equipment but obviously um the one that I think primarily of interest to us is the multi-domain environment when when we have one Central in in a visited domain and one Central in a home domain um and so that then allows that same capability as Now we move the bond between the peripheral and the AP and now we're able to move the when the peripheral becomes visible in in a new network and and is observed by a new AP we have the ability to effectively move the bond uh to an AP in a separate domain um so that should be I guess familiar from a I guess North authentication perspective the other aspect obviously we're talking about vle which is non-ip data and so unlike Wi-Fi when when we give everything an IP address and we we let it sort itself out from an IP perspective we need to understand how to deal with non-ip data and in particular how peripheral communicates with a ble application and and so part of the draft at least from a an Amex perspective talks about how we can use mqtt to afford the the non-ip data between these different domains the intent is to to move that to to a separate document a different document in in the in the future so that's the background um next slide so just from a radius perspective um we need to so so just as in you know if we have an Eep exchange we we pass um credentials and then we deliver the Eep msk information towards the visited"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "Network we need to be able to deliver Bluetooth keying material uh to that ble Central in the visited Network and so we have the access request access accept or reject to the radius server and we need that radius server to interface into the ble security database so so we assume the ble Central in the home network if that's on on the top is exposing security information that it's been generating generated as part of the bonding process um and then it enables access to that security information to a radio server which is then able to deliver a key material to the ble Central on the bottom of the figure and then that that allows then the peripheral to move from the first access point to a second access point and re-establish the bond um on the new access point so that's uh I'll touch on on radius uh next slide we talked about mqtt and and so as we said we do have a an Annex describing him qtt we're discussing where the correct home for for this is uh with an ITF and so likely that this will move out of this draft and and uh emerge in a different deliverable um and talking about sort of iot operations um about how to do standardize those interfaces between ble here but also thinking more broadly around zigbee and other low-powered devices that that how can we standardize the interface to allow these sort of row into domain roaming interfaces to be realized and as we said so the intent is to publish that in a separate deliverable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "um next slide um so obviously we don't have Eep um and and what we do from a security perspective is that we assume operation of of Bluetooth privacy and and Bluetooth privacy there is various um there's an identity resolving key which is used by both the peripheral and the central uh an exchange during the bonding procedure so so leveraging we're not looking to change the Bluetooth protocol at all um but using Bluetooth privacy um uh obviously we're aware of randomizing and changing Mac addresses from a Wi-Fi perspective it's interesting from a from a ble peripheral it's permitted to change its source Mac address between every second and every hour and how how often it changes is is a local configuration so so we have when we enable Bluetooth privacy we have Bluetooth peripherals um which are which is changing its Mac address and the MAC address is shown when we have a prand and we have a hash and the hash is formed out of the P round and the identity resolving key um and so in typical Bluetooth um a central um consults this and then does the reverse and it looks at the Rand and it's known irks and it does the hash of the prand and irks and see if it uh the the the hash function corresponds to the hash it sees from the The Source address from the peripheral and if it if the hash matches then it knows that peripheral it has security information around that peripheral um and then it establishes the connection and the bond to that between the Central and the peripheral um so the idea is to use exactly the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "same approach from a radius perspective so using the the prand in the username attribute and the hash uh in a password attribute one of the comments from from Josh um an interesting talking about the md5 discussion earlier what was how little we've only got 24 bits of entropy from a hash perspective and obviously um sorry um yeah so we've only got 24 bits um from a hash perspective and how do we protect that and so that's one of the issues that we currently have uh this did to address but the idea is that we pass the peer under the hash over radius and the access request and the radius server is then able to do the uh the corresponding match of P runs against its known irks and hashes to understand whether this peripheral is is then known so that's I guess some background um to the next slide just very quickly on the radius profile yeah so um in this is the draft zero zero so so we think we need a new um attribute type for nasport type for to identify a wireless Bluetooth low energy and then we're proposing um some new attributes get service profile is is linked to attributes in the Bluetooth advertisement um and so these may be interesting um to signal over a radius they also may be used by the nas to uh understand whether the advertisement is interesting to uh forward in a radius access request or not and so we can include the the Gap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "service profile in the access request the ble King material um we obviously as we said we need to be able to deliver that from the server over to the nas um and then the other attributes are linked with the establishment of the mqtt signaling between the ble Central and the mqtt broker so a broker URI and we assume you know websocket secure signaling of mqtt because we Face the same issue as as Alan faces from a I guess a Nat Gateway perspective and being able to transition over a Nat Gateway and so if we have mqtt you have a websocket we're able to get past the NAT Gateway um out of the access network towards the home network and then we have a token to be able to associate a particular mqtt session with with a specific Nas as well so that's I guess a brief introduction uh final slide in terms of where we are at and so as I said so a couple of comments received on the Radix mailer um those are being um uh worked through in particular the the it's interesting on the topic around new new cryptographic uh constructs that we had in the previous draft and so obviously we need to be able to deliver the Bluetooth key material and how do we protect that keying material is one of the issues that we face as it relates to this draft but um you can see there in terms of the iot onboarding it's then there's a a branch called issues April 23 which we're working through the issues being identified so that's all I had thanks for listening happy to take any questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:07",
    "text": "so I'll go um a couple of minor comments there's a bunch of text saying this attribute is unchanged when this is used that's that's not needed um the barely hearing material probably could be an opaque blob um RFC 6929 suggests that uh defining data structures in radius is probably a bad idea there are some outs to this um if this King material is taken from another standard then you can just go well here's the structure it's defined by another standard we're passing it back and forth and maybe the radius server has to look at a field but we're not going to make people move these into more complicated radius attributes um the issue with the irks that does raise a bit of a concern for me trying all irks until you get one that matches um how many how long does that take POS issues there yeah exactly right so so yeah I mean exactly sorry those are your three points I guess um and then I just have a comment final comment on protecting the Bluetooth King material um that can be done via the standard radius obfuscation um the mppe keys are already protected via that method so you just say great we're going to use that and everything's fine okay thanks um yeah so so Point second in terms of yeah this uh this attribute isn't isn't used whatever and so so yeah that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "certainly uh will be addressed I guess the key um the key material obviously it's defined within the Bluetooth standard but but perhaps um uh was never imagined that it would then be exposed to third-party systems and so that's one of the challenges I guess we face I agree from a server perspective it's it's uh it's it's a blob opaque blob um and perhaps then doesn't require to be expanded further and I guess that's one of the issues that we need to work through about you know how how best to address that issue but it would have been nice to be able to reference you know some of those parts of the specification but obviously that doesn't exist from a Bluetooth specification perspective because that was never the intent I guess when they when that you find these um in terms of the hashing yeah uh I guess we've we've done some sums and you're right um this is um interesting just I mean even just from a single Enterprise perspective um about how do you optimize your your hashing and how do you look at your candidates um yeah there is certainly um optimizations there but I guess this is one of the costs of of uh reusing the identity resolving key um in these um mobile deployments but uh yeah I think we're aware of the cost of hashing and and how that can be optimized um and finally on the mppe [Music] um and the existing eat King material yeah I'll take a look at that and uh see if we can then leverage that as we Define the protection of the Bluetooth key material thanks so I I have a question and I it may not even be a question about this draft so much is about how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "um about the underlying Bluetooth thing but um you have this pre-end and you have the um hash and you um obviously you can only generate that pair if you have the key um but what I'm not sure of is what stops a brand and then and a hash from being reused by other people during the lifetime of that brand um I'm just I'm confused about how this works yeah I guess well the irk ilks are exchanged during the bond and so your point is is um if another device selects the same irk maybe no no you you have an irk traffic with brand and a hash and I just send traffic during the lifetime of your irk with the same brand and a hash how does that not end up being determined that I am you ah right um um yeah but then I guess um you I guess maybe that's to Alan's point in terms of the denial of service about then triggering um these these events so um no I'm talking about spoofing I'm going to identify myself as you by just using the same branded hash you just sent there must be some subtlety to this that I'm missing because there's lots of smart people working on Bluetooth so I I'm it seems likely there's something else going on there stops that um yeah so this is just for the um to calculate the the Privacy address that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "all we're doing in terms of the addressing and so it's it's a it's a valid security concern in terms of being able to take a private address that you see on the wire and then re-transmit a Bluetooth advertisement with the same private address but but that's the Privacy aspect um that's not the security aspect um obviously the security is based on a a different set of keys that are exchanged during radius and so you can't establish the secure communication with the peripheral just by mimicking its private address okay hello anybody else have any questions or comments on on that particular um issue the document I think at this point we're just being asked to look at the document um I don't know I think it's up to Paul and others to tell us if they decide we would be a potential home for this document at this point the only thing I know of that we've been asked to do is um is review the document so um next topic up on the agenda is when do we meet next we are obviously planning to meet I hope it's obvious at ietf I think it'll be 117 in San Francisco in the last week of July but do we want to have another interim meeting uh in somewhere in the middle of June"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "um to progress these documents and I will encourage the document authors to say whether or not that will be useful and other people to say whether or not um they think it would be a good uh use of of our time so thoughts [Music] Allen I'm okay with meeting again um I think it requires uh some document updates um I I don't know that we actually have major content revisions here so I think we might be okay with just revving the documents and meeting in on July so long as there's some some general progress right right so if we meet in June what specific problems would we be solving I mean we can talk about other documents um or maybe the only one that really comes to mind is is going over details of the the TLs Biz document and how that should be organized um that may also require a discussion with me and Jen Frederick I think there are a couple things one is that we could do uh if I mean we need to see and probably not put them on the spot but I think this is the only real point to meeting would be if if Jan Fred will have um any of those documents merged in by then and we can start talking about um the details of whether you know we thought they were merged correctly and and so forth uh but we also have a couple of documents we didn't discuss on this um call that are being proposed for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "working group the COA document and the um uh status realm and and loop detection document and so we could also uh you know push on those authors to rev those and discuss them on the on the same call I don't know if that would be worthwhile or if we should just do it in July so okay just a note from Paul on the chat that we cannot meet within two weeks before itf117 so it leaves us if you want to meet to to have an interim it leaves us with an opportunity to isolate June or the 1st of the very first week of July right those are the only uh times that would fit into the window um the uh Jan Fred wanted to say something so you understand yeah so um I'm I'm not sure how fast I can have the the document uh ready for for a new version to review I'll uh definitely put uh a lot of work into that to have it ready as soon as possible I won't be in person in San Francisco that's for sure and uh since I have another engagement in that time I'm not exactly sure if I can join remotely especially given that the time difference so um there is a possibility that I won't be there in San Francisco for the for the Radix meeting so if we want to discuss the my document then we would either have to do it before or after the ITF or someone else at the ITF should have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:02",
    "text": "take over yeah well we'll we'll definitely talk about the document of the at the ietf weather I mean at least its existence and so forth whether um whether you can be there or not but it would be good to have you for uh an in-depth discussion when when the merging has occurred or even if it's you know a couple of the things have been merged in but not all of them so that may speak to it being good to try to have a meeting um you know in late June or or so first week of July is problematic because of U.S holidays and the um and I'm on vacation for most of the first bit of July so um it would have to probably be late late June um unless we can take it offline and talk about when what your sort of timeline is for that but anybody else have a strong opinion one way or the other um yeah Fred go ahead uh yeah I was just uh uh referring to to Paul uh on in the chat said uh yeah I can't see the chat and talk and do the thing at the same time let me go look at the chat uh you can't see other people raise their hands when I'm in the chat I don't I don't know how to yeah the list seems low-key enough to actually get work done without interims is what's the the uh the comment from Paul I I think so too so um I will try to to get the document ready I will of course push uh an update to the mailing list uh once I have uh have it ready and then I think the the list should be alive or or should be uh a good number of people to actually have a discussion on the list without um too much uh friction so um I think an interim would probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "not be necessary for the 6614 Beast document um maybe we can have an interim after the ietf uh in in San Francisco if there are some discussion items that could not be addressed either during the ietf or on the mailing list that would might be my suggestion to move forward yeah well I I was mostly going off of I've never been a big interim person but um the during the uh buff for this um it was presented that how the working group would work it would have regular intro meetings which was kind of a surprise to me but um but I don't I've just sort of been going on that um if people don't feel it's useful to have regular interim meetings we don't have to have them I I'm good with that uh so why I mean is there anyone who objects to the plan that will go to uh the iatf meeting in San Francisco and we will discuss there whether an interim meeting is needed to to clear up document issues coming out of ietf 117 is that a reasonable plan for people anybody want to suggest that's not a reasonable plan or I think something happened in the chat which I can't see while I'm trying to see if people want to talk I think that's Alan agreeing with the the after July would be would be fine so hearing no objection our plan will be to meet next in San Francisco and [Music] um if we need any any interims after San Francisco we can decide that then and uh I think at this point we are done with topics for the meeting does anyone have any last things to say or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:05",
    "text": "anything so thank you very much for all who participated in this meeting I think it was productive and the church will request a next session in itf-117 uh we will discuss how loan it should be so it's probably one and a half hour or two hours and so thank you very much for participation and for your work all right thanks everybody you now have four minutes of your life back we're finished three minutes before excuse me a way to end the call and I am at a loss for what that way is do you know Valerie uh what button how do we end the call oh I will end it no problem okay I I think if everyone here exited it will end automatically okay"
  }
]
