[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:57",
    "text": "I saw bigger one yesterday. You go to the social london. No. My flight is Okay. So I have to leave just after the beer. Yeah. You know That's leave hotel six in the voice."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Six in the morning. Are replying out of Data. Anyway I think I ordered that taxi. Okay. This I think. Okay. Yeah. Sounds like it translate conversation reception. They do. Let's suspect. Not the person to have on of six yeah. I think I'm okay. I think if the actually doesn't probably still trying to get a train. Remote I don't see them. No. I guess quite out turn. Okay. Good morning. Just... Yeah. Okay. This is the joint session with Lake and Ace sharing the session time. We start with Lake. My name is Steven Farrell. I'm with the a lake. And this is My culture who did all the work for this meeting. So he's gonna do all the work today. Thank you, Steven. Yes. So thank you everyone for showing up. As a reminder, this is being recorded and the presence is logged, and the note twelve applies just for as for any other Meeting. Please, as Steven said we will be sharing the session with Ace and we will be organized as follows the first hour of the slot will belong to lake"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "and the second hour will will be devoted to the ace the a session. So I still haven't seen the ace shares signing up, but I hopefully, they will be there later. So... Yeah, just a meeting tips for this session to make it successful make sure to sign in to meet call so that we log your presence in the virtual blue sheets. Use the Mid code to join the my and key audio and video of. It's not using the on site version Please wear masks unless you're actively speaking. So here are some links hit our some links for for today, the Agenda the meter, the notes and z So we have one note taker. This is Marco Yeah. Marco can you confirm? Oh okay. Can we have someone help Marco with notes before we proceed as soon as I'm. Okay. Thank you, Christian. So the notes link is here on this slide. It's on this five, then it's also available in the data tracker. So with that, I would like to skip to the official part of the Lake meeting, And we have a quick update with something that I followed on twitter recently, there was a real world crypto symposium in Tokyo that is being held in Parallel with the. And I know there was a there was a talk by Marco who did the computational analysis of hoc signature signature met And I know this tweet where he thinks the where he essentially places the work group for highly welcoming the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "security analysis during the formal analysis stage and but and Mark, his call published paper on on their security analysis work recently. Yes. So and just to advertise and we have a new research group in the Iot f looking at formal methods and how to make them more usable for things like this and for other things. So if you're interested in that, then I... I'm happy coach care of that. So please jump in there. Alright. So in terms of the lake agenda for today, here is the proposal So first we'll... I mean, this is of the distributor, we will have an update on at hoc trace draft John will be giving an update on the discussions regarding at creaking an item that is up charter that is not that is our charter. And then we will we will have an update on the lake draft. And finally, we will wrap up with the open discussion on the lake three charter as we have we have advertised on the list, the latest draft of the new lake charter. This is available on the list so I hope people have had time to read it Do you... Does anyone want to pass this agenda? Yes, You're. Yeah. Have a proposal for the fourth item on the agenda that simplifying the deployment. I think we should skip that discussion to give more time to the re keying and the charter. Okay. If that's I could I could I could tell you what what it's all about, but it's it's not really baked yet. So we can get back to that, I think. Okay. So the proposal is to skip the discussion on lake draft and to give more time for the for the charter. That sounds great. I just one note we we have this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "transcription thing. So again, if you can remember to say your name at the mic, Some form of your name will land in the automatically generated transcript, and it might be amusing later. Yes. No think. So Could we could we take the John's presentation a little bit later like ten o'clock? That possible. During the... Oh during... Okay? So we... Your proposal is to have the re charter discussion before. Yes. So we start with that traces have go gone with the charter and then have drawn at very end. If that's that's okay. Yes. Signature sure. Otherwise, I I'm I'm don't mind not show up before ten o'clock. So that's Okay. Sure. Recent. Okay. Alright. Other... Does gentleman else want to bash this or we sustain the proposal as. Okay. So I propose get started. With the first item of today, this is the update on the ad hoc draft and the traces What how can trace share? You're on the clock is yours? Thank you. Okay. So good morning, everyone. Think we are pretty pretty ready with that hoc. So it's just a few things I'd like to bring up today. Please go the next slide. So since the last meeting we had Two new versions, one coming up right after I hundred fifteen. Basically going through the final ramp up working the last call. And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "we had one version nineteen before an interim meeting where we covered all the directed reviews so far? Also chat review and Stevens. Pre last call review. So the github master now looks, essentially like version nineteen. Don't anyway like to just go through these the changes in eighteen in nineteen and in a little bit more detail. And the traces draft is now also updated with March nineteen. So I think this is pretty stable. And... Yeah. Plus just a few things. Next slide, please. Next slide. So just reminding you of the changes the main changes to the format was the pad field removed. In version eighteen. Padding can now be done with the use of external authorization data just using the labeled zero. We also revised the e syntax and made the value optional. That's also to support different lengths of padding. And then there were a lot of terminology and not a lot of clarification, some terminology alignment in the document. This is more like editor. Stuff. And it's have a look at the change log. Seven done two too much lines ahead So what we did in the last version, once based on comments, we There was a note on discrepancy between terminology used in in this draft? The draft which specifies how to use and. So we made this text a little bit stricter norma here and about... It say the use it should be say how to use all score. Had a comment about message correlation. There was an entire appendix or entire sort of half a page appendix. Which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "we could simplify by right, writing a short section three four one. And there is also an sample state machine which was requested. And at the It hundred fifty. And again, there a lot of clarifications done based on or your comments. The final slide that was showing state machine? Negotiator and the responder. So That's the... That's it. We think we are done. That we have, of course, there's always comments coming in. Next slide. Next time. So Brian S was reviewing this and we requested a a new error code So Erica agricultural things that you can specify afterwards, So you don't have to do it in the document, but This was a a good proposal so we might want to include it. So the basic idea was that you send a when you send... When you authenticate, you you include and identify with the credential you're using? And that might be the credential itself. It might be just identifier. And sometimes you don't have the reference identifier. And that he thought would be a nice error code. Two provide some information about try another credential. So and the typical case where this is actually useful if you have one constrained device, which is talking to multiple. A server having multiple clients. And these credentials are so large that the constrained device can't store all of them. So it might even store just one of them. And then it it needs to flush out the old credentials. And so when when client number one appears after client number two has already flushed out his credential then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "and try another the one that only uses the reference because it thinks server has. Credential then. This error message can indicate that I I no longer have your certificate chain, for example, the report. Certificate or public? So that that we think was a good good proposal. A good idea and the proposal is in P. Four zero one. Which is adding then a new error code here. Generally, we said around errors which we discussed many meetings ago that we should only pre register error codes that can trigger autonomous actions from from the devices. So errors that means that you need to, I mean, not supported method for example, It's nothing we can nothing we can really solve if you if you don't implement the a method then you have to sort of update the code to do that. But things that trigger autonomous actions are meaningful according to his previous reasoning. So that's what we are including in the protocol now. Any comments on this? Anyone? Had the chance to look at it? No. I don't see no hands here. Okay. So I think the mailing this discussion was positive, generally. So Yep. So click please comment this on the main list or on the get let's Fine. I suppose well. Steven steven likes say emails. So Yeah. Yes. Okay. This looks like something that makes sense merge whenever. Right Okay. So do you propose that we should getting explicitly acknowledgment on the mailing list before including it or one should be Simpler. Okay. Unless the actions will will include this. But please have a look. And You could just note say that. I looked on the little fix Okay. K next,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Right. Here's another one also related to errors. So Marco has been implementing a lot here. You noted that it might be useful even though we... I mean, we said we shouldn't specify too many errors because us. Implementation dependent. And so application dependent that that should should allow people to set their known errors. Unless they are generic. And here's one... Which might be in generic if you have Ea related errors, that's somehow out scope of ad hoc. Because hoc is it's just to improve our possession about. Private. But if you have multiple for example multiple e going on parallel, then it might be useful to bring information back about which Aa failed? So and basically reusing the Ed label, to in in the other information. And here is an example of an error information that this would be there would then be a specific error code for ed tape pipe labels. So, yeah, The question is basically, should we do this? Or should we just treat Ed e application... Application errors like any other applications. So you can you registered you specify it and you register and then you ask for a quote point. Christian. By the criterion you mentioned before, I don't think this should go into this classification because the it's not actionable chernobyl. If it were actionable that up that Ea could be could have been non critical in the first please. Good. So what you're saying is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "that's that's the the designer of the E application should should make sure that this I to make an application specific or make sure that this happen the is designer of the sender. If the sender is willing to not send that option instead, then it could have made it not critical and if it insists on that option being processed. Then it also expressed auto expressed that. I thought it was a good good point. Anyone else? I see nodding in the room. Okay. So please continue the discussion. Chris could you could you fill in the github here with this statement. Your comment. Yep. Thanks. Any other comments on this? Okay. Next slide. And there was a third comment about protected errors and leave that to the next slide which is a more general discussion about how do we allow clients sorry initiate responder to handle keys handle the x quarter he derived from the exporter. This is This is and a little bit older issue which we haven't really completed. And and the starting point here is that let's say that you have message three, being sent. By the ini. And then all the all the key material is in place. You have the right your k out. So you can use exporter. At this point, when when the receiver, again, when the receiver receives message three, it might it might also... They also use that portrait and it it may decide that well evo is complete, But I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "but I I still don't want to talk to you. I mean, so it's basically authentication without authorization and the responder can then send an error message, and since we have explorer up and running, we could protect that error message. With with the key derived from from P hunt. So this is this is possible and this is something that's done in tls to protect alert messages. General question is, should we allow that should we not allow that should we mean we we're not clear basically on how you used the exporter. With we state currently that if there is an error, then you flush the context and and your tear down. Session. So that's that's in general. And in general, we need to be need something stated in in this document, and then we have in particular when this is used with os core, And there we have a clear statement saying that error messages after Message three, not protected at All. And which has been discussed in the core working group this week. Okay So that's basically the state of things. We have a starting point in P r three nine eight. A little bit like a corner case. What do you do when you fail after after you have completed the proper protocols or to speak and I think that we need more clarifications here. So the discussion would be good either in this meeting or as we process this dr. I think this is the only thing where we actually need some more reasoning for for the time being. So anything... Anyone wants to bring this up now, or have a look at at you three ninety eight. Alright see someone racing but not for the purpose of reaching for the mic. So I don't think this is the there is the case."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "Okay. So, yes, please please have a look at the P r. We need to complete this. Next slide. How my doing time wise? Okay This is a recent P appeared yesterday or day before yesterday? This is an a note about the new cozy had the parameters. So what what That is allowing you to transport a lot of different kind of credentials. You don't need to use certificates. You can use identifier of various sort. But you need to describe what you're doing and that you do with means of a c header. So we've added c header parameters or we added new and we propose to add new entries in Cozy. For C simple web tokens. You can use those for authentication. Or something we call Ccs. So C already defined Rf eighty three ninety two? And in that same rf it's also defined what's me C claims set. Which is basically C t, it's a content without this c ramping. So it's the the actual payload actually. Yeah. Body. We define them because he had the parameters proposed. C and Ccs and they are called Kc w in K. Ccs are used for public keys. It's a defined form for roll republic keys used in like. But we don't talk much about how you use civil web tokens or all these republicans keys in in the protocol, there don't thought that we should actually write some security considerations. I think that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "That's a good idea. So in particular, the case of transporting a public key Then obviously, you need have some other means or verifying the key. Otherwise this would be purely opportunistic or trust on first use. So the secured configuration should be at. Any comments on that? Seems non. No. Is some controversial. Yeah. So Yep. Can you just go back on? Yep. Just I just had a quick look at three nine eight. Yep. And I'm not entirely clear what what what change. It's proposing could you do So it's supposed to some think first of was not done. That's that's statement of last department. But what is supposed to to clarify is how do you handle the case that when you have derived a... When you have completed the session, what what can you do with with the derived key material. Okay. Well, three nine eight is only just clarifying. It's not trying to. No. Right. Right. Yeah. Okay. That's those all. This is a missing part, I think. It's like a... What what? We have sort of this general statement about any error leads to turn tearing down. Sure. But yeah. So the way I guess the point is that three hundred eight is just trying to clarify situation. It's not trying to change it to introduce new ways of encrypting errors. No. Not the contrary. Thanks. Good. Thank you. Okay. And I think that was it from all the issues unless there is something. Appearing some issues tonight. So next slide, please. Okay. So we think we done. We are waiting for for paul? And for the last call, of course? I have some industry feedback from that. Also some people want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "deploy this in products soon. So so we're happy for any any. And you progress here? And then we have updated traces, so that's now Now in phase with the document and none of the things in in this few list few issues remaining are impacting the choices. So we think that's also ready. Might be something that we want to proceed with. That's it. K? So So okay. So what I hear is that lake traces is ready for working new plus call essentially, it's in awkward but. Should we wait ad three, we wanna not hot before proceeding with working group last calls to keep Yep. Make sense. Or poly nodding in order shaking... So just we move it forward. Okay. Okay. So let's move forward the prices draft. Will start the working group last call on the list and two week last call and confirm on the list how we proceed with the draft. Just to check, how many people have verified the prices do we know? I two or three. So on my side, I verified one trace. And cost reading the trace. And and Mark has confirmed that let's look at post traces. Okay. Okay. Right. But you look at the E? Trace as well. No. No. We can do the second trace. So Marco confirm looks like the first as well. Okay. So at least to them for Okay. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Alright. Thank you. You might want the switch back to the agenda the order. Yes, I saw a working again."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "So the next item on the other agenda I propose we stick to the original proposal, since is here. John, do you want to give the presentation now? Or Okay. Yeah So this is about air and Ps location. Next slide, So Ps authentication and were originally discussed not pursued to keep things more slim. The interest also failed in P a little bit when was known that you could do as a asymmetric basically the same message. Now rafael brought up the use case again and said, they want the more lightweight res assumption mechanism. And still the most flexible way to achieve this is to do like Tls one zero three. You have a P method that can be used for res. Then you also get the... You can use it with external Ps. To get two things won't. Recent discussions in Tls working group, ram rhythm, by me is to discourage this the P key change back without former increase the requirements and guidance on fingerprint printing and tracking of Ds identifier. I think a new ps method in ed hoc should provide exchange and it should protect against identity protection, tracking and fingerprint printing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "But due to synchronization issues and computational limitations, you might have to accept something slightly worse than that. Probably, we can do something quite good. Next. This is slide illustrating that how you do key exchange very much affect how number you are to that key exploration, it can take next. So this suggestion would be to high level session would be to register a new fourth message where both parties this authenticate with a P. The benefits of this is compared to the current method is that is required if you have requires one as asymmetric operation compared to three in the current methods. Maybe even more important is that it eliminates everything external, like fetching keys from databases doing rev and path validation. That might be if you have some external database that that might be much more heavy and type assuming them. The a metric operations. And most of the remaining information is taken directly from there mailing list. The discussion there with the link, next Here is high level how a P method should look like you need P identifier in message bound. And then you don't need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Yeah. Id cr I credit r in message two three. The Id the Ps on file is is all the you need. Then you need to add the P to the Key generation and what was discussed last time, which was approved by Cfo was to add it to the so so you need to... Now we have t h two there. So you would need to mixed them together somehow. For example like that, but let's just example. Then you need to drive keys and Surely pointed out on on the list, you should probably have should not have all the keys the same like there is in the in this static a hell method? Because Stanley becomes a Neck Oracle. It would be quite simple. I think to write them differently. That maybe it surely have it So you have to work lately later. And then if you don't start with an external P then you need to derive a Pi. Somehow or sand pst. One option is the the ryder appears a random one with a, something like that. And that's the... Only needed if you start with an asymmetric. Method, otherwise, the p k correctly the reused, but this is just very high level comments formal verification and analysis sure what we need to do when cannot do. Next different options, one thing with can do with the P is to add a Mac"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "or an a eighty to message bomb and a eighty enables encryption but the only thing you can encrypt is basically Ci a connection item fire an E one, which hopefully should be encrypted on in its own It protects from being creating a new message valve, but can still replay old old message from. Then how can we provide integrity protection and mitigate Fingerprint printing If you reuse the P identify your several times you can do... You can do tracking and fingerprint printing. There's are several things we can do better than that, but a problem is if things get out of sync, there's always some that has to send the last last confirmation message that can be lost. First thing to to not at least don't... You should have something privacy friend is you don't send your email address here that can identify you should be something and anonymous. And then you should hopefully not reuse it. And how can you stop reuse? You can In Tls, you can send the new ticket every time and only usage it once. Here, the yes is that we would do something similar, but we just derive a P identify with the K. Around the one, maybe sixty four by. Then you do not get collisions or low probability of collisions. If if you have a Mac on message one, then you have the option that the receiver can actually try several keys and find the right one. So then you can have the random identify your smaller maybe sixteen. It's twenty four"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "then instead of deriving, you could send identify new identifier in in message two Tls one hundred three sends the new and Identifier in in message fall or after of the message three. Benefit with this, is that the big k Identify can be smaller The disadvantage is that it increases message two which is the one we don't want. Long, but but potentially as you remove Id, or you could send this similar size identify your there and still be forty five. And the last point, if If you have a Mac or Aa, the receiver could simply try all the max it have, at least if they are internal, it doesn't have to be fetched from a database. Doing checking a mac is much cheaper than asymmetric typically two to three orders. So checking something like fifty max is feel much cheaper than doing an asymmetric operation. Next, then has pointed out at least you can combine P in asymmetric in different way, but probably not worth doing. It's illustrated. You can read about it in this made So... And comments on this from surely Surely, this should be this maybe more should we limit the number of suits that could be discussed later Tls do something like that, it binds the P to a specific hash function to stop that you use it in same Bs in several Max"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "should be evaluated Charlie pointed out that we need to be careful for cell attacks and this was something that was discussed when I tech had a Ps. Method. There's several different ways you can protect against that. Charlie points out that if the P was the derived post quantum secure way, then also using it with combining probably also be quantum resistant. And this applies to the external P not to be internal. They will not be resistant. If you if you start with the asymmetric and and just to res assumption, you don't get assisted. Rafael pointed it out that So suggestion for doing things even more slim. Yes. Can we have a two message res not be scale authentication just assumption. What you don't get them is that you don't get a alive your awareness. Question is do you always need them? I don't have an answer for that? He she else that you do it two way message like Tls. Tls doesn't have any random numbers or held that could be added to a two way two message each. Then ask is put identity protection a must or can you... Could you... For example, start with the asymmetric and then have some res reception where you reuse the identifier for for short while. To make things slimmer. And that's probably possible. For example, quick do allow reuse of its connection amplifier So but you could limit this to it for a short time, maybe you want to... Do would be at the same look location, and maybe you want to use the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "access, but that's up for discussion. Think that was the last slide. Yes. Yeah. So I guess is is this something the group should should do the future. I don't know Any high level questions or any comments? All detailed discussions. Yeah. We come to the charter this later. But I just want to say that this is also useful in the. Oscar profile of ace where we we have her assumption need look at assumption. And currently, we only have me after the. I talk about it later. Thanks for joining the queue Scott. One advantage of P allows is it can be potentially post quantum of given a long P. The only other way to do post quantum is to do something like K, which goes against the idea of lightweight weight. Yeah. Do we have any other comments from the remote people? Scott join the Scott. I'll okay So so I guess this is gonna be an item from possible traffic. Right. Yeah. I guess we can just discuss up more in the reach. It's more technically details. What could then could not be done? Yeah. Thank you, John. Yes with that, we seem to have finished the presentation part and we can now open the floor for the discussions on the charter."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "So I recently posted the draft version of the Lake charter to the Mail list. I'm wondering if people have had time to read this through, there is a lot of work that has been proposed. So it's important that we discussed before moving this forward There are there is the item that dropped presented at call creaking, there are several applications on the use of E e points external authorization data points, there are there is a proposal on the implementation guidance drive and as well, there is there is posed by Christian on essentially. On using Greece, a methods increase for using the degrees methods for as an another extension. To E these. Yes, sir. I can do that. Others. Okay. Can you sure? Okay. One seconds. Okay. Okay. Picking up in the room or Yep. Maybe is that visible from back there? Sorry? That visible no like there? No. Okay. So yeah, the charter has been rewritten essentially, it's focusing on on hawk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "now and make as the base protocol specification referencing it as the main item and the extensions to it. Okay. You seem to have Japanese letters. Cool. Oh, that's here Google stuff. Okay. Yeah. So I wonder how many people have read the draft charter before we go into the discussion. Can we see a rise of hands in room? So I see to So it's probably worth you scroll through with Christian. So I see confused questions you. Okay. Reason their can't... Yeah. So I didn't yeah, ricardo did you want to speak? Or you're raising ahead? Yeah. I was so to say I read a short. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So I forgot to start trigger the the tool on the on that. It's okay. So do we have any comments. First of all, does anyone object the charter as it stands now. Do we have any comments on it, please Please join the queue. So so I guess since so few people are read it, maybe maybe just flick through and say like here's what each paragraph goes Okay. So we have five people raising their hands. So let me bring up the Okay. So Yeah. Don't why don't you just Okay. describe. Yeah. So the first paragraph is just summarizing get hoc stating what it what has been done noting the security analysis and the use cases as we've been been seen from net and the Iot a lot."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "The second paragraph graph is on the Primary user's technical usage of ad Key os And why we were be doing all this to have the the... To minimize the code footprint and the message sizes in oscar you know oscar implementations. The third paragraph graph is saying that Essentially, we completed the initial goal of to find the specifying ad that we will continue on working on the prices draft until that is done, and then it goes on and gives kind of the rationale for the for the following paragraphs that are introducing the field, the new work. So this paragraph is saying that that yeah. We rolled out authentication based on pre keys in the first could go vaccine. That we rolled out authentication based and pre shared is in order to streamline the activities of the working at to the beginning, this is documented in the requirements draft And now we... It goes each following paragraph goes and introduces the new work. So the first the first work item, is at creaking, what John has been presenting then there is the the draft or there is a paragraph graph on Ea items and three three use cases that were brought up to the group that are presented in the previous meetings, these are third party assisted authorization of talk? Remote at the station of hoc pierce using the work from the rights working group, essentially carrying the station information in the Ea items And then there is the third use case is the status is very occasional of authentication credentials. For example, using using be s, which is one drop that has been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "which is one work item that has been brought up. So then there is paragraph phone, the the work item that relates to the coordination of and the use of ad hoc applications profiles and the the finish of a well known application profile. So this was proposed by michael. And processing and then also processing extensions through ad hoc extension points in order to to include what was being proposed on the list by Christian and the use of Greece in ad hoc. And finally, there is a sentence zone including the on including the work on implementation guidance. For the protocol. Yeah. And what with the follow... What follows is just the the old charter from the the current charter. Yep. I on the Okay. You're. So I... Yeah. I think this it's sort a good good points here not I we've seen the model. I just wanted to highlight a little bit about the Ea part. Be It fields and So I think we got a question at some point from the working group about Will this column forever, we'll they will always give your extensions. Right. Is that is that really what this working group should do. And I think that That's not the case. I mean other working groups as they need can define Ed fields. If so that's nothing that we should need a working group for really. But these... I think some of these points here I mean, I'm I'm I'm biased. Of course, I'm most one of them. But some of them are actually things that we need to do in this working group, because they are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:04",
    "text": "So the generic mechanisms that maybe we'd like to do things like david the location, the last point, for example. We'd like to do that efficiently. So I think that deserves to be part of the new chart. Remote attest station also makes very much sense for for Iot devices. And then we had the third party authorization, which is something ultra compact type of zero touch. So I think these are our are motivated way to keep on. Keep on working on in this Thank you. Thank you, Hold. So we have reconnect in the queue. Thank you. So, yeah, I have get the proposed new shorter. Okay. And the overall, I think it makes sense. It does clinical direction. I mean, going back to your presentation, it doesn't good and another a protocol to and thus also enabling this support for symmetric keys authentication. Including for the first time establishment. And in addition that, I think it makes sense to focus on the on the cases for the the at this point because there's a of interesting use case medical direction. And Yeah. I I think also document about implementation considerations. That's always nice to have mean, it helps the implement it can avoid you know, easy or or help them avoid any more issues than they. They need to face. So think yeah, overall, I think it goes in the good direction. Thank you. So marco code do you want comment? Just to confirm the charter or the new charter confirm... I'm interested all these items, I think they're good. I can contribute to those possibilities drivers some of those. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "Okay. Great. Thank you, Marco. So we had a comment from Carson quoting the text, the working group was specify how to use Ea fields and the comment is that this sounds like we'll have the monopoly for that this was not an intention in the draft, so we will take a action item to rephrase that text. So customers in the queue constant. Sort waiting for the audio. It not only means that we will have the monopoly on that, it also means that anybody who wants to use that has to go to the working report we get that specified. And that is definitely what not what is intended with with these flavors. So people who don't know the particular will take the conclusion that that we are now taking up the the whole ocean of potential feed just and that not what we are trying to do. Thank you, Costa. So we'll take an action item to rephrase the text. So we have seven minutes left. Do we have any other comments on the drop charter So how about running a poll again that that people have seen the text? I'm just ask, you know, how many people think this starter in good direction. Or versus that direction. So let me start show. So I'm not sure if that was all a but. We just like to get a feel for how many people think this charter Texas is heading in the right direction, and then we should stick it into the data tracker and work through the process or how many people think it's the wrong direction and please don't raise your hand if you don't care. So if you care Think it's a good direction, raise your hands, if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "hit the raise hamilton button. If you care, I think it's a bad and please do not raise hand button If you do not care, hit no buttons and we have forty ostensibly in the session and mid? What's the like so I guess mimi is a bit of a slight clash for this and quick know, not so much So we're not missing a huge number of people due to conflicts in the Process. The session. So we have fourteen. It's... You know, it's it's a reasonable number. It's positive. Not overwhelming. I I think it's fairly clear a bunch of those fourteen are people who will actively work on things. So that also is possible. Okay. So let's confirm on the mailing list. Yeah. But I think the next step is probably take this starter and ask her Ad to walk it into the data tracker? Now or after That's call, what's the right thing there? You can probably do if you wanted. Okay. So so let's do the traces working through basketball call forest perhaps. And then we'd ask paul to take this text or the version of the text we have been and kick off the out process in the data tracker. Okay. Paul's nodding say that seems okay. Great. I'm we convinced somebody else that it's a good idea in the meeting meantime. So great. Thank you. Okay. So I can stop sharing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "Okay. Thank you. So I guess that concludes the discussion on the charter and that the last agenda item for today to we still have four minutes to go before handing it off to ace. Do we have any other business There is John joining the queue ron? So this Christian mail out some Greece proposal. Christian is both implementing. And I think using the doc protocol also is... Maybe it would... If Christian could say some words about that. That sounds like something good for the reach out ring if you want he has a couple minutes, I think that that would be good. Yeah. I can... I can say a few words about it, but I think it's it's on the on the specification side it should be quite a quite a small thing. Essentially, it registers no of things. That and encourages people to use them when they can afford it and when they are not hitting just the boundaries that at is decide to to fit within my my impression from T is that they made good experience with having those in just to ensure that people will rather take the cheap option of implementing non of implementing up Ea items properly rather than having their implementations fail when they encounter optional e items. And with with substitutes that don't know."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "If there if if some peep... If some parties occasionally hit them with unknown officers, then they will just implement it right rather than pairing in a way that is not described But Christian I have just a clarification point there is So if people implement correctly the hoc base specification. Is there a value in in this work being done. Because my understanding is that it essentially mandates kind of restate what is already in the base specification on Handling Items. Yeah. It it it so correct Ea implementation a correct implementation, we'll just do this automatically. At least on the recipient side. But an implementation that ads can't force other implementations to verify the correct. And and this is part of of all the. Force middle boxes. That might look into to not stumble up to not not stumble when they see this. Okay. Thank you. John. Yeah. I was also... Following needs it's the same thing was two forty as one two. But I think the whole tier one or three deployment session was delayed for like, a year because there was middle boxes that assume things that they shouldn't assume until that's one the three have to add a lot of legacy stuff to to make it look like Tls, one two. So I think In practice it can be a big problem. People don't implement from the respect they see they use wire short and then the implement from that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "Okay. So I guess we're at the end of the late session? And we'd probably get minute too for people to swap over if they contact stopping or to run around or something? And we'll shortly be starting to help the a session let's take... That's that's calls for two minutes that people do whatever needs to do."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:07",
    "text": "Okay. I think Daniel will be joining us to run the show for ace in the second. He's remote, so we're we'll we'll hang around to help. But I think Daniel will be along in a second. He's currently looking for the camera. So I guess we can pop up their agenda or something to help us. Have No. But I did the note well No. I mean for for. Offline. Then entire doesn't have the chair for the just this room sure we that. By the way once he tells us one slide deck we can get him control. We have to we have started from Let's see. Agenda did you Where is the? It's gone bit with like... So it's in the lake Oh, okay. So on. It's under errors know. Alright. Share."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "Just give people something to look at. Hi. So Yes. We we hear you fine. And we see you you happy to be at home and some other in the morning, I guess, but If it's not. Okay. Thanks for being so myself Happy to stay here and click whatever buttons you would like us to click. Okay, right. Put. But this should... It's over to you, you're you're a show now. Okay. Right. So So... Yeah. I'm just wondering if Paul is willing to say a word about how is to draft progressing or anything about the working group Since one of the reasons we had this meeting was to interact with the ad so I give you the floor for the time you need, Paul here. So are you referring to the the documents that are currently in the publication requested queue? No. No. No. I I'm I'm it's broader than that. Anything you want to say to eight. But then, yeah. I mean, if coax simply two is maybe the one I have in mind also. I mean, I'm a little interested to see... So so once once the current queue is depleted if there is we're we're coming up and what the plans are the work and group are to actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "put in more new different work. Or whether, it's thinking of winding down. But some I'm hoping to get a feeling from from the both the participants and on that. But it's not something you need to commit to now. Like I'm just getting a feeling for what's what's. What are we going to do with Ace? Now that most of our documents are in the queue. I mean, that there's still some documents floating around. Right? So Yeah. Yeah. Some some. I I the way I see that is it's a continuation of the work of already done. But that's that's my feeling, and maybe doc aspect are going to open you for that working group at that I don't know. Maybe does go around want to say something? So just just as logistics question, We had a... We had no acres for lake we did not commit to commit them to also do this session. So I don't know Daniel, if you wanna get somebody to notes because I believe Marco was who's quite involved in the agenda also Yes. So if someone is willing to volunteer for the... Not taking, that would be great. Repeating but John said that perhaps you should have this discussion after at all other the business, in other business. When we gone through we will see where we are in different status of sitting with states of different drafts. Okay. Right but In any case, you can also meet paula outside this session and have a discussion, I think. Okay. Right. So Let's start with the profile. If sick time is online,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "Hello. I'm here. High them. Hello? Flies. Are are there slides for this? Yes. Oh, so usually you have. Okay. Sorry. Your No. Okay. Let's made. What is it? They Okay. Thank you very much. Should I pass your control of the Flicker? So you should have control of the click of this moving moving forward Okay. I do have it. Thank you. So I'm going to give a quick update on pops up profile. This is the version six. And for this version, Marco has also joined to the c authors The document describes how to secure communication for pubs up clients that communicate through the broker. And it mainly focuses on securing communications for C pops up clients. There are... There has been several updates the document albeit it's lower than we first envisioned And initially, we considered full support for m to, but then considering some of the changes that we need to introduce to the document and to stabilize the document we put that on the back burner and focused on cleaning up the document for c first. The document relies on the transport or application like players treaty profiles of Ace, to achieve the communication security server authentication and proof of possession for access tokens. When it was last presented, it was at one ten, but it has been up dated across the and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "progress has been given to the working group. And in that last of meeting, we were talking about the architectural changes. In the document, which will I will recap in the next slide. But that has been implemented the current focus is on more aligning better with key grip com which this document relies on in terms of message exchanges message formats and processing. So the work progress is basically completing the client group communication interface at the Kd for the pops up clients. And satisfying the k requirements and options. But we are mostly there, but we still have to clean up some of the descriptions to be able to fully satisfy all the requirements. Previously, the document only described authorized required for joining a group as well as protecting the communication for group communication. But now based on the changes to keep grip we also added additional operations, including removal from the group and group keying, which is still in progress in terms of finalizing the descriptions on that. So just to recap the architect will change then in the new architecture we move to a single authorization server we have a distinct key distribution center the pubs up clients talk to the broker. And the general flow we expect in the profile is that there could be an authorization service server discovery. Which is supported in the eighth framework. And then also the pops clients can approach the broker to do Kd discovery, which will be supported to by the core app pops up resource discovery. And due to the changes to the core pops up, This is still in progress in terms of finalizing how this will be done."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "Once the or As and Kd are discovered. We expect the clients to send two authorization requests, one for the broker as the Audience and one for the Kd. And as the client gets a token for the Kd establishes a secure connection to do a joint request to its security group. Or groups. With this joint request, it can obtain the keys for the group communication as well as authentication credentials. Here we expect publishers to provide their authentication credentials to the Kd and proof of possession of that credential needs to be done. And this is described for both cases when the token is passed via the old set full endpoint as well as if This was exchanged during a detail handshake between the publisher and the Kd. Here I've bold everything that is new or added after the last update in the. Once the group join has been accomplished. We expect that pops up clients to talk to the broker, establishing your secure connection using the token obtained previously, and then protect the payload of its communication using the group metric key as well as signing it. So that's the general flow we expect in this document in terms of pops up communication. So this one discussion point I wanted to bring to the working group is the distinction between an application group versus security group, this point has been made several times the current draft text to distinguish this application group around topics, pops up door pics,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "possibly relying in older texts and c pops up. Where the topics may may have their own sub topics which may have their own stop topics forming a hierarchy, and we leave it to the application to decide that mapping of topics to the application group as well as how that application group maps to a security group. At the moment, the assumption in the draft is that a topic is equivalent an application group that maps one to one to a security group. So we know that if a client obtain keying material for topic, it will be obtaining king material for any sub topic under that topic as well. And the draft leaves it to the application to do the correct mapping. Now one closer duration is to add it this to the security considerations, but it's also purposely possibly discussion in the working group whether the draft should be more prescriptive around this. And also another point is core pops up has been updated and there's new terms around topic collections versus topic resources and topic configurations, which needs to be better aligned in the draft. The second once the the client knows which application groups and security groups it's part of it needs to send authorization requests for the Kd and authors the broker. And at the moment, the draft says, there are two distinct authorization requests with two audiences The audience parameter meter is required, there is an optional scope parameter Again, this is new in the draft. The this scope must be of the data model introduced in the draft Ai. Pops up Grip com. And the scope are an area of scope entries which are pairs of pops up topics and pops up permissions. Pops up topics,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "we assumed again one to one corresponds to a security group and then the pops up permissions describe what role the client is expected to take in that group community patient and this could be for this clients for this profile could be publisher, subscribe read or delete, which is a new role and we also added admin which needs to be set to zero for the client's for this profile, but to be future proof in case we want to use the scope for a group management profile. The scope work is not complete. There are two proposals under consideration One is whether the scope should encode the key beneficiary and distinguish between K and the broker instead of relying on the audience parameter and we've considered pros and cons of this approach, The other proposal is the pubs up topic here the correction to the slide is not pops up perm pubs up topic including the broker name in addition to the top with a deli here given an example as a colon again, this is not set on stone to differentiate the same topics hosted at different brokers. So these two pro those are under consideration, and we're still weighing pros and cons for this approach. Compared to having a audience parameter meter signal what the... Who the scope is for. K. Finally, here correction to the slide should be joined response. Once the tokens are obtained. The join request these to be sent to the Kd and in joint response expected back. And with this joint response, we expect the group's metric key to be shared back to the clients with the base Iv defined by the Kd."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "Here, again, implementing what the working group favorite in the last interim, we say now that the Kd assigned a sender Id, unique center Id to the publisher clients, And then the protects to protect the messages the non now is generated using the partial Iv center sequence number increment at each message. And then the constructed following the Rf six thirteen using the sender Id in the base Iv and partial if. And that are the main changes to the document. There is still a number of iterations that need to be done to clean up the right up to wrap up the work in progress and close the questions raise in discussions. And that's. It's and I'm happy to receive questions. Okay. I On here. So I just want to say I'm really happy to see the energy going into this At the same time, as there is also energy on the core side, with the pubs up draft which has been laying around for a very long time. So I'm I'm really happy I assume you have a contact with with the the core authors as well. And do you have any plans on joint implementations or testing? Or is it just on spec level so far. The movement it's only at the spec level marco keeping us up to date and I'm following both the github as well as the latest submissions to. So yes, at the spec level, but this should be eventually more, I think joint work in terms of implementation level at as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "So that will be my wish Okay. Thank you very much. The question I have is that If there... If if we're expecting any joint, work. Do we expect that draft to be in working plus in of years or month. It all depends on the... I think product the pops up work is going to go. I think we need to a little bit way to make sure we align well with them because there is some changes in terminology, like topic collections, topic resources, topic configurations, topic data, And I think that needs to be reflected better in this draft especially if you're going to support Kd and resource discovery, properly. I think that needs to align really well. As well as that discussion around application group versus group and whether we decide to be more prescriptive about it. I think we need to follow the new terminology introduced in that draft, better. Okay. Right. Okay. Thank you. Any any other questions? I can see the in the. So don't again here. Put myself in the queue. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. Go ahead. So yeah first all thanks for doing this. I mean, as one of the call with pubs up is super useful. And again, apologies it took a bit longer than expected to get the base up specification on the core side of this phase. But now with the know restructuring naming things. I think now we have a good pace for going forward to have both two traps the line. So definitely we're close to together around, you know. Things implemented online, so more than happy to work. Together around that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "One small thing that was brought up in the core working group was that the that configuration parameters. One of them is currently in the base specification, maximum amount of subscribers what thanks to be even service. And the issue rates there was see that actually be done on the security decide because of course, you cannot control that unless you can securely know how many of those are. So that's one of those items we could synchronous synchronize going forward and make sure the right parameters are at the right place. Definitely. I noted that in your slides. In the pops up slides as well and made a note from for myself as well for the security part. Yes. Definitely. Excellent. Thanks Okay. Thanks, Harry. That's useful. Any other comment or should we move to the next presentation now? So I don't see anyone in the queue. So thank you Sig. I think it's Marco gonna take to mic. So just before I I I had to look at the document status And I I I just wanted to to clarify something that we we had the group come contrast being moved to the Isp. So this one, I mean, I think we're are waiting for paul to to move them forward. And there are also two drawn the maybe part... Me maybe a little bit more isolated. One which is the C m two c app. So this one is a little bit I mean, we do have some pressure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "because it's It's holding some work in labs. And the is another draft on Coop Eat, that is also waiting for review. So these are probably the one I mean, our eighty should should put some that Okay. Right, Marco, please. Thank you, Daniel. So this is Marco, This is a quick update on go notification. Next slide, please. Right. Quite lot happened since the london meeting, this was also discussed in A century meetings and the last year and early this year we fact submit to the version four before the cutoff of addressing all the open points we had and we discussed. We managed to have completely working request call on this version four, for which we got two reviews from My And thank you very much for that. Next slide, please. So I'm just going to to touch very quickly on get the summary on the version submitted before the cutoff off there is now much clear and I hope a simple description of what The particle benefits are in the specific action are in in handling the access token thanks to to the help coming from The token on the different parties involved especially discussing the tricky case of very late positive tokens would the claim. We are stand security consideration and now also better structured in subs sections and with two new points around that. And as I reminder for a while, we have also introduced the new appendix summarizing and putting in relation with one another"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "the different parameters used by the Aes in this pack. Next slide, please. Right. We finally added also a more example that we're missing when using the discovery mode especially with a crucial extension and all the append now. So all the examples now are also collected in a dedicated appendix. We had around for a while possible conditional attribute usable parameter defined in a core document that we are now phrase here just as an example to control the behavior of the in of sending option notifications and that also has The nice side effect that the document is now an informative referencing. And then, of course, a number of usual clarifications and editorial improvements. Next slide, please. Okay. Which brings us to the working across reviews yeah, and most important, these are very good comments but all in all related to a number of clarifications and minor fixes nothing really related to the core mechanics of the protocol and these properties. So don't really have any controversial issues or outstanding open points to discuss here today, but just for the reference. This is the summary of the main comments that were brought up and again, mostly about requested qualifications. And our work on those for the next version. Next slide, please. Which is really the next step. It's about reducing version five, addressing all the last call comments from the queue. Reviews. That's all I have on this document. Thank you. So Do we have any comment because My understanding is that as soon as we have that version ready, is gonna be sent to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "to pull for the for... With a request for publication. I think you were still waiting for an author to confirm that it's really fine to be an author that should be good as mentioned on the list. Then we need the shepherd. I I don't know if we have one already, I hope worst case can be one of the chairs. Yeah. That we we we can deal with. Right. So maybe next presentation? Indeed. So there be admin. Thank you. Yes. Well, an update on and eight. Next slide, please. Yeah. I prefer to bring up usual recap here. This is an admin interface on the Kb acting as Oscar group manager specifically for which the document defining the interface for group members was sent to the Isp recently. But this is other documents on the same manager of the defining instead the interface for full administrator. So to create configure and groups and is currently ported interaction with the group manager in Link form or or in instead. Dd is driver resource as a collection of groups. That can be interacted in order to create the specific group configurations that that can be in intern checked edited and ends on. So clearly here the administrator for the group's is the ace client twelve group manager is as resource server. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:04",
    "text": "Yeah. Since London this draft also was up a couple of times at the recent three meetings. We had we submit to new version eight before the cutoff, I believe addressing, though I wasn't sure do that, but we made it all the open points that were raised during the interim meetings. And I have a dedicated slide about that. We we are going to make what we agreed to do meaning a split of this document. Into two. Well I'll come back to that later. Next slide, please. So as a summary of updates in the same period of something started in a few questions ago on not meeting multi administrators for same group. Now there's additional text discuss how to properly handle because of multiple concurrent administrators for the same group. We realize that the number of operations of some of the resources have to happen atomic as involving different resources at the manager. Now that is also the fine. But it's pretty simple. We noticed that there are additional side effects that what was really defined in case some particular updates happen on the group configuration in terms of availability if your public keys of of the other group members, if this has to be reapply on group manager for instance, following a change. In the. I'll go then. In the group. And then we noticed another possible question deserving an error code that we had defined registered in case the group manager is really has to do something to to create or update the configuration of the group when something the group itself doesn't support is involved. Next slide, please. Right. On the use of call that was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "a major overall in the sense that we first gave some more details that we found that we're missing on on the of the message payloads and the international semantics but most important with revised all examples finally, that was in the queue for a while. So that they are now written as they should be in civil diagnostic notation using also and we have a dedicated appendix will the shared item tables. Used for that. We also had only one paragraph only up to now on security considerations now we have a proper section touching on the different aspects that we believe should cover. And then, of course, clarification and editorial fixes. Okay. And next slide, please. Right. This is about the documents split. This shouldn't really be new if you followed the previous meetings and and also the the call on the list. But again, the proposal was to avoid any delay to this document due to to the progress of the call document in core, which is now right now reference for this document. So the proposal was to split this document into two, so called dock one be which would be the the current document minus any content and then to start the second new doc as a working the document, we would basically be the color related content taken out from this document and course with all the necessary editor content around it to make it still a standing document. So this was brought up. Early See at and interim meeting where there was an objection, it will discussed in the list where there was objection because father confirmed with another meetings. So I'm I'm confident those concerns on now. And we have also to do this with after"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "this meeting. So I can do that. I can start doing that in April already, we also agreed on on the document name. It's just the same one plus dash. Next slide, please. So as next steps, I'll mostly work on the split. I explain two, then again, this is not straightforward because intentionally the contact now is very well blended. On this document, so I have to carefully take it out and make a new doc as a self document. As submit it and I mentioned that before, doc is really not intended obsolete or after the one in any sense, it's supposed to just provide something new and parallel. To be sure everything is consistent after the removal, Double check is consistency with other async documents policy that will be become version nine and even no outstanding issues come up and nothing seemed to be missing I believe that version one may be approaching working group last call. We'll see. And that should be my last slide on this. Thank you. Okay. So thank you, Marco. Yeah. That's the non k document should be In my mind, should be sent to working with passcode and probably the I before next Meeting. We be global? Yes. And the quick note of the new document, I checked already sorry. With the current of well, doc ones to say So Miracle will also call the new call document francesco peter prefer not to. So it should be two authors for short for now. Okay. Great."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "Any question any comment, though, I think it's something we discussed already pretty much during them. Interim meetings. So If we have no question, maybe we can jump to the next presentation. I I have a suggestion in terms of agenda bashing. Maybe it's better review and takes the presentation of deal of profit now and then I can take after that the follow up. Presentation. It works for. Thank you. Yes. On? Yeah. Thank you. Okay. We can go to the next slide. So this is a new draft and Since was adopted last Last meeting and now we have a version one, which it's just a minor update. And the purpose of this presentation is actually to discuss an overall question about the flows in the in the ace framework and in the profiles. So but We haven't some minor updates on profile requirements update to current names and and references, which I I omit from from this talk. So please call to the next slide. So if you just recall the the asos framework which is taking the architecture if you like or the rolls or was to to Iot by using. Proof of possession tokens. Then you have on the this sequence of steps that the client, you have the client authorization. So the resource server, Client is requesting access rights,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "the access token is provided to the client. With also information about the resource server. And then the client is posting the access token to the resource server, it's authenticating. They aren't authenticating the Science and resource server and then you have most access with protected communications. That's the basic flow and the the bold phase of the be would you say the the edges of these boxes indicate what that communication is protected somehow, so we have some protection between c in Aes And then after authentication, we also have some protection between C and Rs. So what we have seen in So this is an auto simplification, I should say. You you can see the details in Rc. Nine two hundred. So what we've seen in the existing ace profiles, details profile on the oscar profile is some variance of this flow. For... And there are basically two type of variants one is which is Once you've done this flow, there... If you do... You can update the access rights, without doing authentication. Or you can update the security context without updating the access rights. Typically you do the the last nearby? By provisioning or I mean an instance of the that the provision text is token together with authentic within the authentication protocol. So this creates to to different flows reason for bringing this up now is I want to discuss these close in the context complex of the Air oscar profile, which is which is the draft Talking about. So next slide, please. I'd like to go through a and b now in just quickly. So case a here up taking access rights. Without three authentication, is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "basically, that you you have you have already security context in place, you have come through all the steps and you want to extend or change the access right somehow. Typically extend the access. Rights. So the client is then essentially doing the same steps. As first, it's requesting access rights, getting access token but you don't need to authenticate. So you just provision the new access token And then that's protected with the existing context complex so it's slightly different. Part of the flow. Next slide? Here's the other variant another flow, where are you to the provisioning of the access token within the authentication. So start with requesting the x right getting the access token. And then instead of separating the face when you provision the access token and authenticate, you do them both at once. This is done in the Dd analyst profile using P identity. Another question is what flows should we use in the hoc or profile Next slide? So currently, in version zero one, We have the default flow, which is on the left hand side. We have also a variant where we update the access rights without three authentication. So it's basically the item a, we saw on the previous slide. And for Item b, we have It's stand essentially three different variants. We have the variant one here, which is combining which is provisioning the access token within the authentication call in this case using external authorization data. We're also opting for the possibility to use key update."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "Which is the key function defined in network hoc when you can take an existing P out and derive a new P without doing it next change. It's basically just hashtag an and or back to a new key. And we have the third option to update the security context by By using Kudos, the key update raw, which is then staying entirely on the Os level It's not involved in Catalog at all. And with all these options this becomes a little bit more complicated. That was one of the comments we got from Christian, I think the last last for the C zero version. So would like to make this simpler and one starting point there is that we'd like to remove option b two. So the key update which is which is the function that is optional with without or you don't have to implement it might be around and if you just want to update the keys, you can get forward secrecy using kudos well. If you just want to sort of wait out and and additional without additional messages. Sorry. We without good without an additional hammer. You can get forward secrecy anyway. So that's our our first proposal here and then we might think more about whether we could could could simplify this. I think that the the semester key based version of ever fitting nicely here because it provides an option for the lightweight update all the security context. As well. Rather than having to do the entire public here operation. So that's that's the state of things, I just wanted to share with you and see if there are any opinions of this? So b two is probably gone by the next version. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "we'll have another look at see if we can make things in simpler. And that's my final slide. I see on in the queue. So Thank you. Any comment? Okay. I will take this next one. Just a few ideas that we started to to think through us follow up activities Next slide, please. Yeah. We started to think about a few things when working exactly on the also profile. And we actually mentioned even quickly discussed those in one interim meeting recently. We just noticed that this possibility has got beyond the the profile they can be even generalized to the whole framework. So just see things in this perspective, please. Next slide? Yeah. The first one will be potential new workflow for the upload of the access token to the resource server in the first place. So normally, the client request extra token and then uploads it and then a protect request follows But this alternative were for have the client still requesting the token but then having the authorization server generating and also uploading the token itself to the resource server. Then, of course, coming back to the client confirming. Well, the upload went okay. And also please find together with this confirmation, the usual other info you need. And then the client who just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "continue to the resource server accessing the. The protected resources and as Per dx is token. We actually started to define this workflow India profile we a preliminary example in an appendix, but but again, we realized this is not valid the profile. This is about the framework and it's applicable potentially two twenty twenty profile. So you'll be good to some work on this with think. Next slide, please. But your first. Sorry. Just wanted that this particular case has been proposed for for light with Mt m when you have when the authorization server has contact with all the resource servers. And it's sorted of. It would be it's straightforward to update the context on the resource server. So that's... I think that's That's a good idea and it it simplifies the the work for the constraint time. Next slide. Yeah. The second idea was about considering the introduction of some new parameters and again, in the interest of the framework in general. A simple one was basically mentioned from in the previous slide, it's in the interest of the new workflow and you'd be parameter in the As to client response to confirm that the upload of the access token by the As were fine or not. And that can be as simple as a bull token uploaded. But then we recently discussed also the interim the possibility to include an additional parameter again in the As to client response in the interest of any profile that uses asymmetric authentication credential So in the examples we have around for example in the profile That message would include in the Rf parameter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:04",
    "text": "one public key for the single resource server associated to the target audience. But in impressive that's submitted by the framework in the first place, it's possible to have and now that comprises multiple resource service at once so related to a group token if you want to. But then you need to provide client with the public of all the resources servers mapped to that audience and that's not possible today. You'll be good to have an additional parameter say F, simply transported set of such public keys. So the public is a holder there is a service involved in that audience. And during the meeting this was mentioned customer raised the problem of, how can the client distinguish which public he switch which is associated to which resource server and a possible way for draws to be having a companion parameter specifying some sort of identifier for those resources servers with the identifier, for example, ordered in the same way of the public keys. But John has a comment. Jonathan Eric. You're saying I'm very supported to these optimizations of the message flow that the original message flows are not always very lightweight at all. You can also... I don't know what you can do exactly today, but you could have the same key for same one key, but resource servers. That's very common on on the web. You have a said certificate with many domain names. Thank you. And next and finalize slide I think. At third point, This is not generally for the framework. There's is specific for the D and now also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "Tls profile. It has an symmetric mode. And right now, the only admitted authentication potential is ko key as a. But again in the profile, we we are admitting new different kinds of asymmetric authentication credentials like like strategic, for example, we are also registering coupons for new confirmation methods to transport those consistent what. Ed expects. But then the same thing these same points in particular can be reused also in the details Tls profile to admit the user of certificates first of all, as authentication credentials, in profile. But thought from yesterday, we can do that just as well for Ccs, that would be an alternative raw key compared to to Ko is just also additional metadata. This sounds like a minimal effort actually. John, again, I think this is very good three p p has adopted for Details and os these two profiles. Some of the first immediate comment from to the people people once we need Tls for And what about certificates? We like certificates. So I I'm very I think the most important thing for aces to to to do this basic profile make them extend their usage as a very support to this and would be willing to help Thank you, John. Next slide, please. This is the last one. It's just a summary of the three new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "three new items to be better of course. And as a rough thinking, I believe a dock a single document can cover both one and two. So the new workflow and the new parameters, whenever they are, in the interest of updating this framework basically? While a separate second document can focus on point three, we should be about updating the profile instead. Be willing to look for quarters, but yeah, I heard from John especially interested in in work covering point three. Year. And more comments on feedback, of course are welcome. Thanks. Daniel, we cannot hear you Yeah. So Thanks, Marco. Then the next presentation is is it It's probably Melissa. So Hi. This is Melissa. So I'll be presenting this draft which talks about how to protect sd payloads with us. Next slide, please. So just to give you some context first, this is potential as this is potential new work in ace. We now have at hoc that is nearing completion in the lake working group. And one of the authentication methods of ad hoc is using starting keys. And we to make full potential ad hoc, we need the way to enroll these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "starting difficult certificates. It's this especially important because target devices have a network hoc cost implementation. So now we want to leverage these implementations the enrollment to certificates as well. And in the Working group there was there was a similar dock. There was a document that was published as Rf c ninety one forty eight. It was published in April two thousand twenty two. And it specifies the enrollment over secure transport with Corpus. This document follows closely the yes design, the seventeen R c seventy thirty. But it it secures message exchanges with d details. But it profiles the Est four constrained environments. And essentially the this draft is in the with well within the current scope face. As you can see from the quoted sentence of the current charter. Next the are next slide. So about this draft. So we call it Ds core. And this is an old draft that was first published in March two thousand seventeen that was been laying around for a while. And it talks about how to protect Payloads with Os. It follows the structure of Rf c one forty eight but uses at score instead of D tls. And what is important to note here is that we had a previous one of the... In one of the previous interim when we were discussing Is. There was agreement to work on this draft, but to complete Ts First. So now we believe this this is the good time to revive this draft and to to continue working on it. And in the latest update, that we that we've done for It of one sixteen,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "we include the support for the enrollment of stuff starting the fulfillment monkeys keys. Next slide, please? So in my opinion, this draft is non. It's very as I said, it follows the structure of e the To the point. And just replaces the security protocols the details record layer with our score and it replaces details as handshake with that hawk. And there is also the point in the in the overall architecture the on the relation between the the server and the register where we actually improve over Sd corpus because oscar can we can have os between the final two points between the Est server and the ds client because Of provides can travelers proxies core proxies. When transport also. Next slide, please. So this figure shows the protocol layering because as you can see it's very straightforward. There are Est messages that are carried on top of os. That can be carried over copied or Http. Or and that is further carried over udp or Dc. And that hoc is used on the site for for our mutual authentication before the actual message exchanges begin. Next slide, please. So in terms of the action authentication. The Est oscar specifies that the Est client and est server need to authenticate themselves neutral authenticate using that hoc, the authentication is based on certificates. We provide for a channel binding using and at talk to what we call ad hoc unique string, which we... It's a byte string that we generate using the hoc exporter function and we are byte string as a challenge password of peak of the because has then a request in order to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "do the channel binding between the ad hoc channel and the actual because subject is used for enrollment. We also define a couple of optimizations in this flow in the flow that are optional, we combine a clock message three auto oscar request we allow from the combining of these two as specified in the core oscar at we we allow for certificates that can be c and encoded, which a work item in Cozy. We we we we allow for certificate the reference of the can be returned in the response of the Peak object instead of the actual certificate order for bite savings on the wire. Next slide, please. So in this slide shows just that we follow completely the what has an order been standardized standardizing in Est as drafts, and these are Ds function the endpoints that are provided. So there is the c see a certain simple enrollment simple enrollment and so on, and we follow not. The the norma text follows the Est. Next slide, please. So one point where we depart from Is the is the on the enrollment of starting Difficult monkeys cases I said because this is one of the authentication methods of ad that needs to be supported. And this is the most efficient at hoc authentication method terms of message size. So we define essentially the... We we we have a a section on how to enroll certificates using starting the fulfillment monkeys keys. And the procedure is as follows. First the client contains the c difficult key using C search endpoint or abbreviated, sir C"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "The client then generates the human keypad following the the and group parameters of the C. And then it we reuse... Actually, this is already standard thousand six nine fifty five, which is not an old Rf the proof of possession using starting helmet keys which the client follows in order to sign the Pk object So essentially generates a mac and it uses the oscar arcadia and Mac to generate this message authentication code and to generate a proof of possession of the the private key that is that wants to be enrolled. Next slide, please. So in terms of the next steps, So we still have some sections to complete in the draft So this is... But we are very much looking reviews and we would welcome any reviews for this draft in order to advance it in nice. Yes, Marco. Marco happy to coming back. I support this review Thank you. Do we have any other comments? Yeah. I just have one question. When you say we is if this document got adopted by the working group do you... I mean, who is way? Who is gonna lead that work? So... So yes, I took the action point revolving this draft and there is an auto... And there is an active water list that we are having private exchanges on the draft. So when I say we considered the quarter so the draft Okay. Well, one other thing I I mean, just to be very clear. One of the thing I... I'm trying to to avoid is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "to have one offer being committed to too many documents. So if it taking the lead that would be easier for Yes. You can talk to the others. I'm taking the late on route. So Yes. Yes. So Okay. Good yeah. Yeah. I can commit. So So I suspect that the next step is a call for adoption. And and and we can start from that. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So it's probably the time for in any other business. Do we have anything to say? That we haven't said earlier. Palo. Sorry. I forgot to check on the list. Just a comment on earlier, you mentioned the Cp transport draft. Just to note that I did my eighty review I received comments only two weeks ago and form of an xml file. Which I don't have to process and run a things to see if I... If the the issues are based are addressed, So just... And, of course, obviously, had a verification before I deaf and I knows Oh yeah No. No. No. Mean. That's too much time to do it. But as a general note, if you... If you're asking feedback for me, On certain text, please just send an email with All text new text that I can quickly reply to or directly do a new draft data tracker, so I can just click in to data tracker and see a diff side by side because it's really important I can sort of take off issues quickly and not have to gather my my my command line tools to see, you know, what happened for. That actually really improves my work workflow because if you If you send me things an email and I and I okay them,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:04",
    "text": "I still have a work item. Right I still need to ensure that these items actually get into to the draft and I aren't forgotten. So so by by going through email you kind of double the work So so where possible please use used draft versions. They're really cheap, nobody will think that you're doing too many version just pushing into the day the tracker. Then we can actually track the date well. Okay. Right. So But what I get is that you prefer to limit the email exchanges. Sorry. Missed Daniel to repeat? Oh, so what I get from paul comment is that ip prefers to limit the email exchanges, but rather to point out a new version of the draft. In the data If you Yes. But I mean, if it's a shared question, just shoot in email, It's fine. But but make sure that the email stands on its own so that I can open the email respond to it we'll put out play right. To many different things. Okay. Right. So Right. Okay. Fine. So not just for the other documents. So I I think the C p two is a under review by paul. So so that's Just one thing I I wanted to make sure. The other draft that I would like it not to fall in the crack because it's a one that is a a little bit isolated than I break regularly got ping from the authors, is the heat draft to up heap And this one is independent. So you can't start having a look I mean, it's not relying on in any of the documents."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:06:01",
    "text": "And And and we also had the two grip com drafts that are now being published, and but this is a harder piece, I guess. Yep. Paul speaking. Yeah. Just just two to I guess and from you can look at my queue on the data tracker. But basically, my top items right now are ad hoc and group documents. So those are the the the top of my queue to get out before new items some from this week get into my new queue. Okay. Right. Okay. So any other comments? I think that's radio thank you for the lake cheers. To handle that? And see everyone at the next meeting then. Thank you. Thank you. Alright. Thanks Bud."
  }
]
