[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "now she knows my schedule oh if you love sex life that\u0027s why it is if you want to talk that\u0027s time I do I\u0027m nervous don\u0027t forget I just so I\u0027m not agree but that for the set different place okay nada someplace [Music] [Music] [Music] still haven\u0027t responsible that\u0027s okay and basically hello unlike or smoke Lauren grunt oh I love it I think years of his life is the almost finished cause I don\u0027t have but I\u0027m yeah but these oh I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:35",
    "text": "haven\u0027t looked at sponsorship maybe [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:49",
    "text": "answers to their consensus cool whenever Meryl if she wants fun but are we ready I have have people randomly that document but we really need to talk about how may already know it\u0027s on the Prince Clovis opportunity opportunity cost it is a dough that is what we\u0027re gonna start it\u0027s a principle of with the design team recommendation to I think that\u0027s what it is I see me not before not a service to such a big venture yeah well it\u0027s very nice to immokalee we\u0027ve had heard of cinema it is [Music] [Applause] so actually the direction is that there\u0027s certain after there\u0027s several get your money "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] yes I love it yes please hmm many two thirds that\u0027s okay okay well welcome back to MV 0 3 and so our second session so here\u0027s here\u0027s the note well again I\u0027ll just leave that on the the front row minister second or two okay blue sheets are going around and we have a job ascribe thank you and ignis is doing the minutes I hope ok so our gender now is just the administration then we\u0027re going to have a 45-minute session on the feedback from the roundtable sessions that we had last time hopefully from the topic leaders so on the data playing control plane and security I think you may be doing are you going to do there so John so John Hudson will do the do the security feedback thanks John as unfortunate don\u0027t know can make it and then I want to spend a little bit of time on our next steps in the working group okay so first is Sami K for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:21",
    "text": "dicipline roundtable feedback yes this is a roundtable discussion that we had Tuesday so we gathered the feedback and the point of the feedback in the following slide so the points of discussions that we had was the data plane here was on OEM fragmentation as a need of critical bit security extension and single TLD option lots so for OEM we had actually a long discussion on OEM with Greg and other folks and that we discussed as a two layer of om here what\u0027s called active OEM or invent OEM or sorry active OEM is the mechanism by which we are going to be sending in the tunnel only the OEM pack so the regional data packet is not going to be included with OEM packet our sorry with OEM header or the OEM as a payload of the packet will only be O am inside the tunnel and in here given that so am wanna be in what we call in band meaning follow the same fate as a potential data package that will be sent over the tunnel then we want to use the same entropy so on the tunnel we can use the source UDP port same source UDP port SATA data packet will we carry as well however where it falls short here if the entropy that is gonna be computed by the transit node is not going to be taken from the tunnel UDP header but rather from the pillows it\u0027s all so so we discussed those points and as well we discussed as a need of the obit was that an obit is needed here or not because I think some of the same that\u0027s being done Who I am is defining a new protocol for OEM itself so a new e sub type as you folks know GNA carries a protocol type as well in the biz header so in here there was zero discussion on that too and we discussed as well as other flavor of OEM which is hybrid OEM which what we what we refer to in our document as in band OEM and in there we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:26",
    "text": "as well discussed the different in band TL visa can be included but here is that flavor this will be included with original payload of data packet and that won\u0027t share the other issue of the entropic calculation if it\u0027s going to be taken from the pillow yeah Greg you have inertia yeah actually I you know I apologize to everybody who was in the discussion I missed to ask for one more type of OEM its alternative marketing method and if we take certain consideration and do a work in encapsulation it can work in enable us to effectively passive performance measurement on the packet so effectively what it does it uses bit field one or two bits in the header we have already proposed in a beer working group so I can refer to this document that explains how to do it and it will be very good if envio encapsulation has two bits that Dan\u0027s not at the value of the field does not affect the forwarding a decision of the packet a treatment of attack so then we can use it market and then test points can use the marks and then do the measurements and generate measure packet loss latency and jitter so there is a work being done in IP performance metrics group the base document I is getting close to the working group last call there was a discussion earlier this week and again there is already one document that demonstrates how it can be done in overlay in a beer group sure if you can you can send us that Africans would be great Tommy\u0027s rahi Marvel actually greg has a good point i think it was mentioned in the previous ITF meeting as well and if we get rid of the obit you can actually use that bitch for this purpose so I think that would be I think that\u0027s a good idea okay yeah sure so if you can send us the reference we are gonna we are going to consider that in the next update okay so am yes was a long subject to discuss second subject was fragmentation so actually in the discussion it\u0027s a discussion was about how can we avoid fragmentation right not really entertaining so one saying guys that was mentioned is that maybe we can follow you know other architectures especially the peewee architecture and I i put the reference here for the pre architecture and the section is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:26",
    "text": "architecture that talks about the recommendation of fragmentation out how to avoid fragmentation so this was the fragmentation part of the discussion next we discussed the knee the critical bit there were discussion on that even on the mailing list on whether some of the option that we be carried on the packet will not be critical for the other tunnel endpoint so meaning some of them will be optional or maybe the other tunnel endpoint will not need to understand those option so we we had some discussion as well on that and we are going to be considering that in the next update of the design team in cab draft security extension there were some discussion on that too about what kind of recommendation we could add as well to as a geneve draft or two in you know given that the design team in cap draft boot recommendation for gen8 here so should we add a recommendation for security in general should the base header at least be secured and what should be the recommendation even if we are going to be hashing or computing a hash for a subset of the tlv should that as well be put in the recommendation or not then finally we discuss the single tlv option lens we had some discussion on that too and the idea here was to align with as well other protocols or other other protocol is a defined extension headed like NSA or even ipv6 or says there was discussion about extending the size of a single option lens to align with those but I think the argument as well was that if we align then we need to align other protocols to so that could be as well a discussion with an SH if one align with ipv6 extension header extension header lens so our TV currently can go up to 128 bite and the discussion was about extending that 256 bytes so those where is a point of discussion I\u0027ll go back to the first slide maybe sorry that we discussed those were the points of discussion and the input that we collected the feedback we\u0027ve collected from have you any questions legault ganga intel i have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:32",
    "text": "comment on the way I\u0027m bit one of the reasons why and which is there it helps the hardware that doesn\u0027t parse the options to look at the way and bit and forward it to the control function that handles the oam frames and rather than putting it along the data data part so that\u0027s one advantage of having having the bit in there should Greg risky the thing is that having OEM bitch and a protocol field creates a big UWE t in my view okay again i\u0027m not saying that we need to remove or am bid I\u0027m just asking let\u0027s define give unambiguous definition of what OEM packet is you know another comment about the product protocol field is now you need to define a new protocol called 4am and and then you know or you know define whatever they either type is and then bring it in here and if you wanted to have a om frame and also you want to have a payload that\u0027s the what you\u0027re describing a hybrid model then that other protocol needs to have a probation for next protocol field in it and so it creates no additional complexity maybe you need to you can come come up with a proposal on how to okay how their am okay because because I I sacrificed my ten minutes in first meeting for the sake of the community ah but I can tell you that OEM header does have next protocol field proposed so it does dress exactly your scenario so what we propose i think the slides will be in the material so you can look at it but exactly what you say so we have an answer for what you\u0027re saying okay I think you answer is the problem because if you are going to have either type and you want to use the OEM also for a regular data packet this is why all right what we are doing in the design team let\u0027s use clear terminology I\u0027m not planning to use OEM for data playback data packet has its own protocol type but if we\u0027re using a hybrid OEM yes OEM header can handle hiber om so this is the problem because this is the reason why we use Janelle and because we don\u0027t want to skip options with the length and this is relational for the protocol it\u0027s for my point of view again or am header has a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:36",
    "text": "length which is length of OEM message and skip OEM message is not a problem the length of the picket stirrings of the packet what\u0027s going to be the legs in the packet will be described by r and v 0 3 header because envio three header will include all the payload it will include OEM length and the length of the payload what\u0027s cool Eric on Iraq I I\u0027m not sure that anybody else in the room is knowing know what you guys are talking about so my vision you want us to think no no no no but but but up leveling right I mean I think that if you look at the different formats there\u0027s when we talk about om that could be one packet which is a pure om packet that has an OM protocol type right for some om functions that make sense right instead of the payload being IP it\u0027s OEM and and then there\u0027s another one where we talk about with these bits for marking right which is basically a packet that thus might not have any special payload it\u0027s just those bits i think all right as some other pieces okay but but then the thing that comes in i don\u0027t know if we\u0027re calling it hybrid but the notion that i can attach some OEM information to a data packet flowing through the network what\u0027s the encoding for that and it\u0027s the only one encoding and i think that one thing that we talked in the design team about potentially using the extensions for is that type of thing where you say okay I\u0027m having some more information that I want to attach to an existing data packet flowing through the network and that if you put that in there today so one way is doing that using an extension the other way of doing that is putting in an oem payload in the packet that is followed by a regular data payload right by having a type field there and and I think so that\u0027s what you guys are compared those two choices I just to make it just Eric thank you ah so the bits that I I I mentioned is they go to on a clear data packet so but yeah likely nothing else just to make sure again what I what what is the claiming the reason that we choose you know janeiro who was you know the candidate for the capsulation protocol that we have in the base said wavelength that middle box don\u0027t want to pass the OEM don\u0027t want to pass any option can pass on the option and go directly to the direct packet this is the reason that we skip GPS and options to the encapsulation now we take it back with this header with this new protocol in cetera et cetera I I guess I don\u0027t see the reason why we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:38",
    "text": "need a new header when we\u0027ve got extensions why we can\u0027t use extensions for oh I am and handle it like any other extra information we put okay one of the things why its proposed this way is that we have beer which uses a fixed length header and we\u0027re trying to create oam as a common om4 overlay networks but be it doesn\u0027t have extension yes beer doesn\u0027t have extensions beer uses a fixed length header so this is why you need bits in the header right but ah no no no bits in the header is different reasoning bits in a header they used as a mark and marking okay I don\u0027t want to go into details of marking method but I know that\u0027s the reason why there is an oem header because OEM Heather what it does it creates an Associated OMG no but we have a different framework you know different infrastructure they bite the unnecessary bite for the protocol for them bill clears land because of be right okay because you still have multiplicity of OEM functions and you still need these functions to be identified and OEM header does multiplexing the multiplexing without any bother for in two or three or any other overlay protocol okay Iona a Georgian unpack space I guess can I cut it off there I have a comment just for clarification the bits in the header are you know essentially most common use would be too if the bit set click that counter if it\u0027s not said click that counter window when you\u0027re counting packets and bites something like that [Music] yeah I think we should use the mechanism we\u0027ve built into this for extensions and not not have to understand another header and understand a different way of parsing things and we are going to be discussing all those anyway as we are progressing as well the design team ecap trap normally I would agree with Pat as well because if you look at week if this is deployed right we\u0027re likely to have functions that want to look at the payload in the middle of the network because the 184 firewalls and whatever and having one way where they kid whether there\u0027s om data attached to the packet or there\u0027s a mother security tag whatever right hanway attach the packet the way they skip past that to look at the TCP headers inside is the same right it seems simpler than saying that om is going to be slightly different and then saying I can we take the same OEM "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:39",
    "text": "headers that are being defined for beer and put them inside there\u0027s an extension definitely run is definitely Calypso so you should not break our mechanism right tell me sorry it seems to me like there are two separate questions here which in some moments it look like it\u0027s the same question but actually one question is do we want the OEM to be a tlv or separate shim header and the other question is do we need the obit and we need to separate these two questions and possibly different issues okay okay thank you all right thanks very much so I think the plan is to update the design team draft for some of these considerations yeah so we are going to be that design theme is given that the articles are of the design team in cap draft so we are going to be meeting go to the schedule spines and updated draft accordingly and bring it up to the list thank you thank you next up is Benson thank you so just so we had them we had a roundtable discussion yesterday and I tried to put some slides together to capture it I\u0027m sure there are some problems with them so people were in that conversation just yell at me at the microfiber so we did have a discussion breakout at ITF 97 in Seoul I actually managed to find the pictures of the the it\u0027s not a whiteboard a flip flip pad that we used back then it turns out that they\u0027re actually documented that\u0027s better turns out that they\u0027re actually documented in those slides so if you actually care to look at him there in the old materials from that meeting there were a few things we talked about then that we touched on yes yes days ago here one of those things is this notion of what a control plane is let\u0027s say as distinct from a management plane in the notes we had in the 97 breakout session there\u0027s also some discussion about discovery and where that fit I didn\u0027t actually try to document any conclusions about that but just to point out that we did make those have that discussion last time it sort of carried over into the discussion yesterday two days ago sorry so the topic was control plane and in particular we were asked to talk about implementations of control plane protocols that might apply to the envio 3 problem of course the MV 03 problem is documented in the architecture and framework documents we have requirements drafts which are effective effectively a year old whatever they\u0027ve been expired "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:40",
    "text": "for a long time and when we allowed them to expire the idea was that we would pick them up again when we had work on solutions so we may be at the point where we need to do that again but for your reference there there they are I\u0027ll point out the second the second text there he\u0027s talking about the split and ve control plane and Pat this sitting right here if anyone wants to review the I Triple E document I\u0027m pretty sure she would be happy in fact I let her say something let me make lianas let me make that much stronger please do we the envio 3 working group has asked i triple e to please extend this protocol we need to review it to see if it works for us otherwise it will be harder to ask other places to extend protocols kindly for us in the future and the question really that comes out if we don\u0027t provide adequate review is do we need this or do they punt it it\u0027s your decision if you don\u0027t review it thank you and somebody asked me what kind of review are we looking for obviously we\u0027d love to have people read the whole document and tell us any comments they have we\u0027ve our editor has in our editors have included some of the surrounding Clause material so you should be able to read that draft without having to go back and look at the what\u0027s in the standard a whole lot it should make sense as it is but if if you have limited time uh I think the thing we most need feedback on and you\u0027ll let me know if there\u0027s if I\u0027m leaving anything out the thing we most want feedback on is whether we\u0027ve included the right data in the extensions of the TL vs so if you don\u0027t look at anything else look at that it\u0027s only a few that part\u0027s only a few pages yeah yeah there\u0027s two clauses in there but that that parts only a few pages there\u0027s also some information on on marking well weather the weather the port is migrating or not and so that probably is another area to look at so it I\u0027d say if you focus on those two areas it shouldn\u0027t take Oh a lot of time to review the document you can either email us your comments and and I\u0027ve sent email to the list so my email should be easily available there or or if you really want to be nice to us there\u0027s a spreadsheet that we normally take comments on and if you use the spreadsheet to put comments in then it\u0027s easy to slip it into our comet handling tool Thank You Pat and I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:40",
    "text": "understand if you want to review it you\u0027ll need to get a password to have access the I Triple E document I believe Pat can provide that your chairs have the five password okay thank you so for the purpose of the discussion we had this week a couple days ago we acknowledge that the split nve work is happening and sort of put that as perhaps one of the more successful obvious choices and moved on to focus on the other areas of a control point we had a good discussion about whether we needed to define a control plane strictly for NVA to nve obviously we need that component but the discretion on making that control plane scale and whether there was an NVA to NBA control plane aspect that we needed to document as well the consensus seemed to be that we really need to talk about both and so that\u0027s something we should have a working group discussion on the consensus of that smaller group it was pretty clear so in that context of having identified in VA de NVA control plane and NVA 10 de control plane we started documenting basically trying to make a list of protocols I am certain that this is not complete we also had some debate around what you know how we actually define these for example someone said bgp and what what exactly does that mean is a DB pnl to VPN etc so there\u0027s some discussion about that we talked about lisp and depending on whether you\u0027re talking about NVA de NBA or NVA de nbe you know what aspect of the list protocol that you might use we had a good discussion about ovs DB and you know there are multiple ways that people use 0 vs TB different schemas some of which are not documented openly some are so we need to have some more discussion around what that means if we were to use OBS DB as a control plane so so there\u0027s some ambiguity but this is a list we came up with yesterday or two days ago and so the question then is you know what\u0027s next so we kind of came up with a list of protocols that might fit here that we know people have used but you know we as a working group you need to figure out what we do with that information Aliya looks confused or concerned I think just tired oh wait I was so I was just looking back at the Charter and as you might recall the last time we talked be chartered we did put out of scope the NVA 10v a piece of this because there because the working group was not making progress in getting very grumpy at each other about it and because there are the EVP and l3 VPN solutions that are happening in best which can easily apply so while I\u0027d be quite open to documents or drafts that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:43",
    "text": "think about or describe how to reuse those protocols i really be fascinated to hear any arguments about the need to do something different in that distributed control plane space the NVA 10v and so on you know that that\u0027s for this logically centralized NVA we had this discussion at extreme lengths yeah thanks so I don\u0027t want to put words in anyone\u0027s mouth if anyone the hat was helping make this argument actually don\u0027t see several people that that were there on Tuesday I don\u0027t put words in their mouth with the gist of it was well if you\u0027re talking about bgp or you\u0027re talking about let\u0027s say some other kind of protocol what assumptions do you have around what NVA\u0027s if you have multiple MVAs what they know or don\u0027t know so so I know there\u0027s some relationship there that we probably have to just discover or document yeah might be something like an applicability this is how you apply and this is you know this is how you apply l3 VPN in this scope and these are the pieces it solves and what it doesn\u0027t and how you plug in the rest yeah yeah so so next step so we think we had a good discussion on Tuesday based on that discussion is pretty clear we need to define some things better we need more detail to actually say what we mean when we say you know for example bgp or OBS TV or any of those things so i think we want to start writing it in a draft that\u0027s certainly better than the slides that i\u0027ve thrown together and then have a discussion on the mailing list that you know obviously i\u0027ve already mentioned a couple these things but i think we want to talk about specifically are we missing something is there an obvious protocol that people are using we didn\u0027t touch on i know there are some proprietary protocols people use that we didn\u0027t touch on and I kind of think those are out of scope for this working group unfortunately but then you know compared to the requirements is there obviously a control plane at envio three ones to adopt as our solution control plane and that\u0027s as as we\u0027ve experienced with data plane and everything else that\u0027s never an easy discussion that\u0027s one we ought to have to make progress in a timely manner I think we talked a little bit about this i don\u0027t know if it\u0027s a concluded suggestion but we may want to have an interim meeting design team something that helps us focus the work agree yeah so maybe maybe if you\u0027re interested in in contributing to this and go like a show of hands of people who might be interested in contributing to an app like one or more applicability drafts for control plane protocols for okay so it\u0027s a good basis for a design team i think please come and see us afterwards thank you [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:45",
    "text": "Eric not Michaelis from the data plane discussion around extensions there was also this observation that it would be good if the control plane cata mechanisms to specify which extensions you support so that would be something that we need to be added event to something like VPN or whatever right so that might be something that yeah and I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s anything like that in the obvious to be scheme are but but that would be something to look into that\u0027s a good point so I want one thing that I didn\u0027t really say explicitly but I think we ought to do is when when we start having this discussion revive the old requirements documents and sort of reassess based on what we know now if if they\u0027re complete and what you just said is a good example of where they might have just been glossed over so okay thanks Benson thank you that\u0027s great want me to find did you unlock the schedules are you gonna do so next up is John with the security so thanks John for stepping in at the last minute to run through this and you want yeah in a minute it\u0027s crashing him so right hand how many of you love security that hasn\u0027t been evident in what\u0027s been going on I know the focus has been on other things there been a lot of rather heated discussions and and passionate debates about certain things but if you think about how this stuff is going to be used a lack of a security focus is going to make a lot of this technology a rather non-starter for most people you know there are a lot of interesting use cases for this technology some of them might be things like multi-tenancy in a data center environment they can certainly be certainly instant on in instant officer of situations but ultimately if you\u0027re going to be sharing any sort of hardware you need to be able to provide some level of security that means that I don\u0027t have to go talk to a lawyer or I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:46",
    "text": "don\u0027t have to worry about my liability because you know suddenly Coke and Pepsi are sharing some piece of equipment and someone gets a secret formula so well right so you know I have a bit of a technical issue visions of Star Trek and so I mean the idea is is it you know because of what had been done because and to be honest there was some interesting work done some earlier drafts that have expired so essentially what this is really involved in is a reengagement and a kind of a reevaluation those existing documents a much much much tighter relationship with those that are actually more focused on security because you know in fairness this is a routing group and so you know it\u0027s certainly reasonable that necessarily this wouldn\u0027t be where all the focus and expertise is in security but essentially what we have to do is we have to really get on the ball and make sure that we do this right because essentially if we don\u0027t one of two things is going to happen either no one\u0027s going to use it or vendors are going to describe it and implement it on their own which means that only a very small set of views we\u0027ll use it or they won\u0027t build use it with other users so essentially there is a there\u0027s a lot of work that needs to be done and you know ultimately you know the way I would the way I would try to look at this is it if if you really want you know all the time you spent meetings all the time spent on phone calls all the time you spent writing or editing drafts for viewing drives if you want what you\u0027ve done in this working group to really matter to people for it actually to get used in reality and in the field this is what we need to focus on because without this it\u0027s essentially not going to be a useful technology than most people and so it\u0027s it\u0027s really it\u0027s it\u0027s been personally very frustrating for me the you know the lack of the lack of passion or interest that we\u0027ve seen and it\u0027s not unique to this working group by any means but I think for this sort of technology where you are essentially building a technology meant to facilitate multi-tenancy right it\u0027s that\u0027s kind of what one of the things is designed for if you\u0027re going to do multi-tenancy it\u0027s you know you can\u0027t just trust that you know VLANs are going to provide you security vanilla yeah I really thought the whole discussion on on the list about vga stuff is fake silly and I feel bad oh I thank you for some fantastic out living "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:47",
    "text": "in the filling up hail do that and then we got it follows what were you Pasha yeah let\u0027s test to see if it works Hey look at that for those of you that are offended by color I apologize black and white makes me sleepy so next X so as I said there were two drafts before that were expired you know it\u0027s quite understandable that that this group would necessarily by its nature have a focus on security however if you know we really want to do this we need to step up and we need to do better this help me be less of an eye chart on the screen so anyway and so essentially what we need to do is is there\u0027s a lot of you know detailed work needs to be done as far as um you know how do we you know figure out you know you know how we\u0027re gonna do isolation into the namespaces what sort of requirements are going to be for the control plane whether we need you know different way to handle be an identification space you know what sort of you know confidentiality at the data plane as far as going with the dtls option there were some other things suggested certainly looking at you know whether you want to just be doing data plane or whether you want to be doing some other things I mean there\u0027s a there\u0027s actually a lot of a lot of very interesting decisions in eb made that you know not necessarily going to be always showstoppers but they\u0027re just decisions that we need to make and we need to kind of make them as a group so we\u0027d like to see some involvement you know as you go down the list some of these things are going to matter more and less to you and some of these things can be more where it\u0027s an infant to you you know hardware friendliness of Mac encrypted transforms you know it\u0027s kind of an interesting topic but these are all things we need to get to and we need to start addressing or another Lewis forward Thomas rahi marvel just a small comment ipsec aah has been deprecated so I\u0027m looking at him I didn\u0027t make the slide so um just kidding that sort of that was a topic that was discussed at the secure in their own table so that means we all need to be more more up to date with what is happening in security area but this is the perfect example of essentially you know if you hadn\u0027t said that how many people in the room would have said something or noticed I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:47",
    "text": "probably you know some percentage of you but you know these are sort of things that are not typically on the you know edge of the tongue of most people that don\u0027t you know focus on security so these are the sort of things we need to focus on and we need to do right and we need to get help with thank you so needless to say you know these security I mean because I\u0027ll tell you what\u0027s happening now is if people are deploying some of this technology and they think it\u0027s secure I mean I\u0027ve had discussions with customers where I\u0027ve you know he typically goes over poorly through rude to customers so you know you ask questions like you know well how do you feel about the security and they go oh well it\u0027s great and you go well it so do you normally use vlans for security and they go no of course not and it\u0027s just it makes for some very interesting expectation management problems and so if we don\u0027t do this right what\u0027s going to happen is some customers are going to assume that we did do it right and they\u0027re going to walk blindly off a cliff we need to start resurrecting some of those drafts figure out what we can use what we can\u0027t use clean it up and I said before we need to really really engage in the security expert side of things so that we can get some help with this and do this right and that\u0027s the end okay thanks John how many any other comments on on the F of that around total then definitely what we we need to do is so we\u0027ve got a security requirements draft which is it\u0027s currently expired and that\u0027s a pretty lengthy in detailed document but they certainly need to resurrect that yeah i mean the intention was to take parts of that and put it put them into the security considerations parts of the solutions but we didn\u0027t have solutions so at time so yes that very least that needs to be resurrected we need to move forward with actually doing something with that text and taking some of the requirements from that and translating them into solutions okay okay well thank you to all of the people who participated in the roundtables and that leads to the roundtables and as as worthwhile one last one last thing just to finish we\u0027ll talk a little bit about next steps for the working group so the first thing is the design team output draft and we will do a working group call for adoption once it\u0027s been updated with the some of the conclusions from that the discussion group but today we would also like to get a sense of the room about the conclusion of the design or the recommendation in the main recommendation and the the design team draft which is to move forward with draft Geneva a single standards track data encapsulation for envio three so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:50",
    "text": "will do will also do a consensus call on the list and this is just really just to kind of gauge gauge sense of the room I\u0027m throat before we yeah actually I\u0027m not that to say anything involving idea but i just recently realized for the email that GUI is progressing as well yes but it my understanding it will become a standard yeah yeah so the situation is with body know what I\u0027m asking is that is there a way that teams that work in NV 0 3 and in int area cooperate so that at least some decisions that made in envia three will be consistent in in there and I\u0027m looking for same consideration that we talked about entropy we talked about alternative marking and some other things that benefit everybody ally atlas so the point of having a single day to play encapsulation in NV 03 is that everything else builds on top of it there are lots of encapsulations that the IETF has standardized l2tp EXT mpls I be like we can rattle off acronyms all day I understand that there\u0027s interest in int area for other purposes to use GUI I certainly would be happy to see lessons learned here communicated to int area but the focus is that the work done in NV 03 assuming there is working group consensus to accept the design teams recommendation to use geneve and evolve it as we\u0027ve discussed will be focused on Jeff Thomas rahi just a point of clarification so assuming we followed the death we still plan to publish the excellent GP as an information on working group document strike new assuming we take the path of geneve which is currently the what is planned do we still plan to publish VX nine GP is an informational working group document so once we\u0027re finished with with the these with the standards track document then yeah that that\u0027s that\u0027s certainly an option for the working group to publish hoses informational or experimental it\u0027s not it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:51",
    "text": "completely closed oh yeah listen yeah i think if assuming that the authors are interested that we probably want to have a paragraph or so at the beginning explaining that was one of the alternatives that was considered and have it as an informational but since it\u0027s a working group document the authors are less relevant here the working group is more relevant right yes if well the working group is more relevant the question is whether there are people who want to do the work to carry it forth to informational but it will absolutely not be published as informational before the standards track proposal precedes and this published as RFC so I don\u0027t have a strong opinion about which protocol we think I do generally agree we should pick one the one thing I\u0027m a little i struggle with a little bit is that one of the criteria for picking ought to be implementations and I I know that there are implementations of all of these protocols but I don\u0027t know which one has more implementations or more commonly deployed is there some way we can gather that feedback at least from my point of view like I feel more comfortable picking one after we know that so we did actually have questions like that raised in a working group over over the years and of course all the draft authors came back and presentation saying yeah we have you know three or four or five implementations of this so we have tried the other more formal approach is is to do implementation reports and you know describe those implementations and the experience more in a more detailed way we we would really like to make some progress though on picking one and to be honest if you were going to do that we probably should have done it a couple of years ago I mean I think that you know as long as there are some implementations and interoperable implementations all the authors of all the jaws framework so this stage I think it would be difficult to make a choice based on on on just implementation okay however he would certainly in the future of this went to internet standard of course it would have been so2 to get some idea of their more detailed idea of implementation experience okay so as to someone can we play at a show of hands of those who agree with the with moving forward as drop with draft geneve as a single standards track data plane solution for every 03 if you could raise a hand please if you agree with that conclusion 15 or something yeah we get a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:56",
    "text": "you raise your hand if you disagree with draft of being a dad move forward as you disagree yes and none great can we get a show of hands if you honestly don\u0027t care and just want to go get a beer abyss the bits and bytes good okay so we will we\u0027ll refund tram reaffirm that on the list and if that goes goes you know if there\u0027s consensus for that I\u0027ll see but like the the authors of draft Geneva 2 it to up update that document and then we\u0027ll hopefully at some point so we have a milestone I think for August this year to hand over the Tudor to working Brooke last call and actually sent it and that\u0027s the ice tree one thing that\u0027s missing on this slide is the is progressing the OEM work and as I mentioned on Tuesday we will do a call for adoption in MV 0 3 for those two OEM drafts and as we discuss today would also really like to see some more progress on the control plane so I know a few people put the hands up saying they\u0027ll be willing to work on drafts or draft on the flick ability of control planes 2003 so that\u0027s great please drop us an email am I trying from then we\u0027re probably a good way to do this is to form some kind of informal design team around that to make some fairly rapid progress okay and with that thank you very much I think any other comments and we\u0027re done great thank you has anyone not sign the blue sheets you "
  }
]