[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "And I guess with with that, we will start Welcome. This is the security area advisory group. With your, your new 2 your 2, ADs at two and a half ADs. I see Roman walking into the room as well. As some people know, Roman is now the I deaf chair. He used to be the security 80 And, as a new security, we have Deb Cooley replacing, replacing him. Do note, well, if you have any questions or concerns about IPR, about working group processes, anti harassment procedures, code of conduct, please should have read this by now. I noticed, but, behave nicely and disclose everything and if you have concerns, talk to your lawyer. Leaving the ID code of conduct. A reminder, we all shoot each other with respect and be nice to each other. And really talk about the the topics are not so much doing, talking about to to person themselves and and doing personal attacks. I wanna stress on point. When when some chairs show an equivalent of this slide they add the context of I know this is not a problem in this working group. Please do not do that because if there is an issue in your working group and people are feeling harassed or otherwise, bothered then, saying that there's no problem whatsoever, really disenfranchises to people who think that is a problem. So please, as a working chair, Don't do this. I know it's easy to do. I've also made a mistake in the past. But but please be careful, when saying this. And so if you have issues with either people or the chairs. You can you can come up the chain."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "If you have problems about participants, you can go to the chair. If you got problems to chair, you can go to the AD. If you have problems with the AD, you can go to the chair, And in all cases, you can also go to the ombudsman. So there's various ways where we can try and put things back into the right, on the right track. Meeting tips, be sure sign into the session with me, Dekel, so we get proper rooms. Please do not try to stream video, of this meeting. If you're in the meeting, If you're remote, please use, use the good audio tool so that we don't have feedback and other other issues with audio, video, And please turn the audio video off when you're not speaking. The agenda we're here at the agenda bashing part. We'll do a quick can group an 80 reports, We have a talk from Eric and some discussions, and then we have open Mike. So we have a lot of time. So if there's any other things you wanna raise, there should be plenty of time for that. So then first, I wanna thank Roman for, for doing a great job running the security area for a while. You can see some statistics, which he, that's you try to mess up in the week, right here by doing more work even though he should be preparing to be a chair. But he has done a 100 RFC. He's basically, guided through the process, a 100 RFCs, which is like I think the 2nd best record if I if I calculate the statistics. Right? So, Bravo Roman, a 192 ballot, ballot, ballots of disgust. Is why people don't like security people, but did close on 6 working groups. Unfortunately, you started 14, so I'm not sure if that's good statistics."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "So, as a as a small token of appreciation, we didn't really know what to get you. I mean, you get, a giant plaque, which is always really nice to have behind you for your for your other conference calls. So we got you a little Raspberry Pi with a display, that you can do kinds of cool stuff with. And it comes with specifically kit instructions on how things actually work. I thought the thank you was now you have to be chair because the area runs itself. Really kind of thanks for the kinds work, Paul. It's been my pleasure helping, you know, some little part help you really gotta do the work that you're doing. The security area is a is a tough area because it's both working groups working on, you know, specific comsec protocols, operational kind of practices, the kind of the crypto kind of elements, the endpoint kind of pieces but we're also really a service to the rest of the IETF to make sure that they also kind of do that right. And so it's inherently difficult. So again, the work that you do really is making the Internet better. It's making the enterprise also kind of better. So thank you, kind of, for that, and I really appreciated the opportunity to work with you on that That's your responsibility. No. No. No. You you can make them the the Internet work even more secure. Right? Is that our new slogan making the internet even more secure? So, welcome Deb, as our, new security AD. How much if you wanna have a a short Speech or if you just want a handwave, or throw your your dot Oh, I could throw the dot. Yeah. Yeah. No. I I it's late. It's very late. Okay. Well, thanks for for staying up. You really be here anymore. It's really appreciated."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "So for those working groups, chairs that are wondering where things have landed. This is the slide where you can see where you're working group landed, but you probably saw some data tracker mills shooting by on on on Wednesday. So if there's any questions on this, feel free to contact us. If you have, if you would like, to move on her different a d. We could also talk, but, this is probably the way We roughly wanna keep it. Working up chair changes in since IPF 118, we got the Spice Buff, that happened. We got the built at the 1st working group meeting. Tigris is a working group that closed. Unfortunately, they're mostly closed because the the the people involved didn't seem to, be able to cooperate in any way in any structure plate, it was compatible with the IETF process for how we do things. And so, we're kinda stalled there. It's it's a bit sad, to see that. There's a there's a few groups in recharging I working group chair changes, some peep some people have because they became an AD, so they had to be replaced by other people, We've got some new chairs on the adult group and, some people, moved on to other things, other greener lands, and we've managed to find replacements. For them so far. Helping out if you're interested in becoming a working share. Always let your ADs know, experience is not always a plus. People's skills are a plus. You can also become a document shepherd. That is actually a great way of learning things you get to learn about, following a working group for history for what people do, how documents are supposed to move forward, And, again, your your other chairs and your ADs are always welcome to help you and assist you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "I'm seeing someone in the queue, so I'm go ahead, Hans. Paul, I want to touch on one thing that on the first item here, I What's the recording of the last IDF SAG meeting? Because I couldn't attend And I was, Chris was co coming to the mic and, all was saying something nonrefinance, like, Be a chair. You don't need any experience. All is great. As long as you have, good motivation, everything is cool. I'm not sure that's enough. Because because after all, you have a bunch of people who invested a lot of time and, money resources, etcetera into bringing the work here creating a group, doing something. And so sharing groups is It's not easy. It it's not just the personalities involved, but it's all understanding the ecosystem, which is which is often complicated. It's not just reading a document. You need to understand, like, how the different forces and the incentives of the different players work out Of course, you have heard from the group, but you need to make a judgment on, like, what goes in the right direction, whatnot. So I understand that it's challenging to get the get shares to volunteer for that type of work. What people to volunteer for that. But, I don't think we should really communicate and say like like like like like like Oh, you can you can do it. It would be would be fine because I've seen this 1st working groups. And, you know, we even have today disastrous working groups. Why could where I get really upset about the chairs because they block and delay my work for months and years. Just because nobody does something, nobody wants to then then then Go forward and and push Chias away. It's it's, because we it's our friends and we like them and otherwise, but it's dracks on the work and, that's why I want to just say that Okay. No. No. That's that's definitely a fair comment."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "We we do try to, to take that into consideration and look that replacing people when needed. But, yeah, no. Those comments are fair. Paul Hoffman disagreeing with some of what Hannah said because we have in the IETF A real problem of, of, we have too few people who have chair experience. And that the number of people who have been chairs for literally over a decade is very high. So I would in fact push back and say, it's okay if you really have just the personality stuff and, obviously, some subject matter expertise. And if something happens like Honors describe where there are working groups that you know, you know, the chairs are just doing a really bad job. Take it to the ADs. The ADs are responsible for the chairs Sometimes ADs assign people who are chair mentors, for example, to help with situations like that. We're we're having a situation in the IETF where if you want to be a chair like, if forming a new working group, they say, oh, use an old chair and a new chair. That only creates one new chair, and that doesn't happen very often. So I would I would in fact say, this is okay if the ADs will either step in directly or send mentorship. Right. Right. And and and just to combine those those those two topics. If you have a problem with the chair, please do come to the ADs and please come, like, sooner rather than later. Right? We we cannot replace the chair within 1 week. Like, we do not have a can of people that we would just, like, open another one. So it takes time to replace someone, So so, yeah, so so please come to us early. And this is all like It's gonna be done in conference, you know, no no no worries there. West West Frederick or ISI. There are 3 important features that a chair has to have. They don't have to have all of them. They have to have the combination of chairs have to have all of them. One, they have to have domain expertise."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "2, they have to have they have to understand the IETF process and how it works. And 3, they have to have motivation. I have 2 awesome co chairs right now that did not have IETF experience. They have far more motivation than I do. You know, I've been around too long. I'm like, I wait until next week. Right? And one of them has, you know, much better domain expertise than I do. And, and the other one we probably share it, but the combination has worked really, really well. And they're getting awesome chair experience. 1 was only in the AETF for 2 meetings before recruited as a co chair. She's doing awesome. I would like to add 2 things. What, best said. Time, you know, life changes. And then suddenly, you have no time anymore. But you don't realize that that's the problem, And the other thing is conflict of interest. And that's a big thing in the working groups. If you are to chair the group and they also offer most of the documents you know, how can you be really Sort of the shepherd of the group. In some cases, to make it worse, some Chiesa, even the also of patents of some of the the documents and Of the working group, So that gets really tricky. So we really try our best to to make sure that those positions don't happen at the start. So, like, when we assign a new chair, there's definitely not going to be a person has like 10 documents outstanding, for the group. But, of course, over time, things change. And, you know, people might pick up documents and and and and then that situation might occur. But, yeah, at that point, that that's a really good motivation to see if we can replace that chair. So If you feel that that's valid somewhere in your working group and we missed it, please contact us, and and we will look at that doing that because, like, we do want to avoid those conflict of interest. Okay. Then, next item, Arata processing, that's also a really good good method"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "learning things, you get to go back and look into history and, and and find out, new problems, old problems, that hasn't been, solved before. And it is really useful for the ADs to actually get people to to send us email saying this or rather should probably close with this this comment. We obviously tried to do these erratus ourselves, as well. But sometimes we do need the, you know, the experts in a working group to, to make sure that, that's an idea we're not making a mistake in, in closing the routers. We'll get back a little bit on our routers later in the deck. As well, attending the virtual in person buffs, Buffs are always very interesting because we're we're trying to get scope. Right? We're trying to get the topics right. We're trying to get the people to work together. And that's actually, you know, I think, orders of harder than actually doing the working group where where that the char the the chart is already very well defined. So those are really interesting, and sync places to be. You might have noticed that, for BOSS, we also try to get, a very experienced chairs that know how to lead a meeting that have, like, lots of experience in both in process and and and in sharing. So, Yeah. Those those positions are are in a way even harder to fill to get the right chairs for that. Then we get to the working group summaries, at first, some people haven't been in the last two meetings, we used to go do them 1 by 1, we don't do that anymore. We just, ask people that have very interesting things for the group to say to now maybe step on on a mic and say so. So if you wanna talk about something really positive or really negative. Please come to the mic. Otherwise, Please send you summaries of, what happened either this week or what happened between the IETF and this IETF to the list. Last time, I thought about us to to stop doing that, but there was actually quite some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "feedback from people who said, like, you know, sometimes I miss a lot of meetings and actually these sort of wrap up short, you know, one page emails are really excellent way of of catching up on things I miss. Please do them again. So that's why I, again, started sending out the request for sending these to the list. I want I wanted to say a few words on about the OS working group. We had two meetings already. There's one upcoming at, next session. And the interesting thing there is that we are currently or it seems, working on a couple of certificate Replocation mechanism, but in this case, certificate is a JWT, a sort of a new encoding of a certificate in some sense and see the same also in the in the buff that we had, the spice buff, where we we very fiber credentials as as a technology. We are kind of For me, it's like a certificate in a different format. Defining it again. So that's, I think, where we can get some experience from other working groups, longer running working groups, and then incorporate that as we sort of design these 2 new credential formats again. So that would be an area where other groups could really help us and make a difference. We have also, some work on cross domain, ores, which to me, looks a lot like, Cabra's cross room authentication. So their similar problems have emerged. And how do I get authorization context and authentication context from one domain to the other one so there could be also interesting or x knowledge transfer into another working group Thanks. With her to cry. Say again. I did wanna bring up Wes. so my two groups didn't, on this list, didn't meet. The secure asset transfer protocol set p is in the process of going through last call on their first document,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "This is a lot of people that do not have a huge amount of I ETF experience. It it looks like a really well written document fairly high level. My, my ask is that people do take a look at it especially because there are less people from from the IETF in general, and make sure you think it good, especially from a securities perspective. It it it's sort of a hybrid working group that spans both seg and, And it's technically in the app area, right, I think. You'd think I'd know that being a working group chair, right, but, point being, a, be nice to him, but b, Do give a a good thorough review. I I'd like, a lot of eyes on this one if possible. Thank you. No other working groups. Olgong smooth. Okay. Then we have an another, nonsec area related activities. These are just the the working groups that you might wanna have a peek at to see, what what kind of interesting security things happening there? I see that set p, which originally was not in security, but now it's in already still listed there, so we'll fix that on the next iteration of the slide. If anyone has any other things missing here, Please let us know. Poft and from I can, which is not listed as externally related, but might might, might, should be. There's a bunch of people in this room who are HSM Geeks. And, I can use it probably as the most visible use of HSMs in the world, you know, while watching them, for the DNS sec, key signing key. We are changing HSMs next month in a public ceremony. So if you like watching people touching an HSM for the first time,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "you know, in, in, in a real life situation, you should look that up on, on the way just will be a live ceremony and such like that, but they're only switch I mean, they've switched HSMs in the past. They're switching HSM vendors. So So new stuff there. Are you also live destroying the old HSMs? No. We start, we stopped doing that. The first time we tried to destroy an old HSM. We brought in like a machine and things like that, and the machine couldn't crush the right parts and things were flying all over. So they just they ended they they now, ruin them, you know, and and show that it's ruined, and then they take them off some place and and and destroy them and they keep a bag of it, but trying to do that live turned out to be not a good idea. Thank you. Paul? Is that is there still a video of that, This is Paul Hoffman from ICANN. When you say ICANN, you think transparency. We've got all the old videos. We've got all the old scripts and such that. So, yes, so if if you look under ina.org, root operations. I don't remember the exact thing, but under DNS sec, root key stuff. You can see the videos from every ceremony back to 2010 when we signed the route for the first time. When I finish drinking through the fire hose, I'll go look. We added a 2 new non working group mailing lists a SKXone on symmetric keys and Oh, sorry. Go back one. I think you can drop per because I think it's closed. Oh, review the list. Yeah. Just right. Just Okay. Awesome. Thank you. Okay. And, Charles Echkel, maybe not meant to be an exhaustive list, but on the external related, I think, 3gpp should definitely be there. There's a lot of,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "I think mostly good stuff where they're looking to reuse, a lot leverage a lot security stock we have. That'd be good to add. Yeah. That's actually true. And there's there's a bunch of algorithms probably coming from there two words the IITF as well so that, yeah, it should definitely be there. Hi. Justin Richard, freshly upholstered chair of whimsy, over in art. And, so there's the workload identity and multi system is going to be a very security heavy conversation that's happening there. But we're in We're in art because it is also a very vertically focused type of group. And, I would very strongly encourage folks from the security community, especially if you're working in sort of cloud deployment type environments please come join the conversation. We need a lot of security expertise we will be working closely with, the security area in general. I think I think you're on loan to us in some official capacity or something. It was it was a new field in data tracker that I didn't Technical advisor. Thank you. I didn't know that was a thing, but we got one of those. So that's awesome. And thank you for that. But regardless, we're gonna be, we met for the first time this week, and, we will be working a lot in, in security space in general. So I, you know, we'll probably be doing, readouts in sag from time to time and, and really encourage everybody to come join the community. Awesome. That's great. Yeah. You're right. The the the they are really closely related. We weren't sure yet where where that working was actually going to land where that was gonna you're doing that. So, yes, definitely, yeah, a lot of security related things there. So like I said, just just do do mailing list that, that's what's set up for, from some interest gathering discussions seeing where things would be going. So join us if you're k. Interested there. Some eighties phones to drive."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "The test keys finally got an hour number took a really long time. Those are requests for the NTO prime SSH, to, to be a d sponsored. Roman initially took this. But then, when we, got some information. We we we asked for some feedback from the crypto panel, And basically, the feedback on it is you can you can find the link in the presentation. Their feedback was basically, yes, we would have done the it liked this 15 years ago, but these days gonna do it like this anymore. So we shouldn't really, like, standardize that here either. I think also additionally since it's it's in open SSH and and, SSH has has name spaces for these things. So there's, like, an openessage.com namespace where it's already running So so that that's do we really need a code point here or not? So it was decided to, to drop this from from the AD sponsor list. There's not a one related to TLS. This is about, again, the sequence number, in in in the clear instead of in the encrypted part. And that was for a heart acceleration, very important. We weren't really sure what to do there. It's Initially, we thought maybe we should 80 sponsor this, but then also it's kind of straints to AD sponsored TLS document when it working group is still running and open. And so there's, like, you know, that. There was a a bit of interest and a bit of lack of interest there So, So, yeah, and at a former security AD now at the line, Sean, and share of TLS, and don't send it back. We already did it. We looked at it, and the group said, you can do this, but not here. So there was there was consensus to not do this work. where's he keeps Right. So so pinks me every now and again. Like, hey. What's going on? I'm it was with the AD. So like, how the eighties mean to what decide what to do. Yes. No. So so yeah, to to clarify, the TLS group didn't say this is bad. They just said we don't care, or it actually they said something along the lines of it. It's not bad, but we don't care. Yeah. Yeah. Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "Then there's another, document from from Donald that been waiting for too long for us to decide on. It's it's an algorithm that's used a lot by a lot of people outside the ATF, and, The the question is if it's if it's used so much outside the idea, does it really need an RFC number or not? And if we document it, would that mean that, We're promoting this in some unofficial way of as as a strong algorithm even though it's not a strong algorithm, as the document does clearly tell you that It's not. So, Yeah. I'll I'll I'll I'll sit down with that and figure out what we what we do with this one. Then we get to the Arata processing. I I haven't actually checked how we're doing compared to other areas, but they on previous statistics, we were by far the worst and ying how we did drop a little bit. We did turn the tide. Thank you, Sean, for your heroic efforts the last 2 weeks of doing TLS ones. We are getting on the right way, but there's still a lot of work that needs to be done. So, If you have time, please look at your working groups, Arata, and and start closing things down. Otherwise, I will threaten to start using part of the SAG meeting as a collective IRATA Life, attacking meeting. Know Justin might be getting to say something similar, but you go first. It's it's it's busted. The whole Arada process is dorked. is super painful. My advice is It get it reported, Arada, jump on it immediately because you're gonna forget in years and you're gonna lose context and it's taking an hour to figure out what the hell the thing was about. And the whole, like, we have to review it. You can, you know, there's an ice statement and, like, may have to edit the thing before, and you've gotta approve it and, like, the eighties are every every 3 weeks, I ask some other AD Do you qualify this as hold for document update or verify it? Like, it is it is definitely a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "clear, and I have suggested this as a topic for the next, ISG retreat. To see about what we can do Yeah. Justin Richard. Absolutely. The the the processes terrible. I actually, after after the last meeting, when Roman was like, hey. Our our, our IRADA are terrible. It's like, you know what? I'm gonna take some time. I'm gonna go sit down and go through, like, go off in the other working groups because there's a lot sitting there, and I can probably answer a bunch of these. I couldn't find them. And I was told go back through the email archives and respond to those emails from 10 years ago, from a different email address in my case. Well, I I can actually give you the link. In fact, the the real problem is, as AD, there's 2 links. One is the public link with the Iraq, and the other one is the private one where you can verify them and people send you the public 1 and then you go where's the button click and edit them and then you can't find them. You have to go find it, put it into the other system to actually log in and and actually resolve the router. So, yes, there's a lot of things that are really bad with it. Nevertheless, we need to, like, attack this and and and produced this pile of backlog. I absolutely agree. My my main point is that I truly believe we can address a lot of this with better tooling. Making stuff available. So so if I can't even find the tooling, it's not good tooling. No. No. It it it's fair that part of it is a tooling, but but from an AD point you, I often actually need to reach out to knowledgeable people inside a working group to confirm Right? Some sometimes these are very subtle and they're, like, you know, it is it's easy to get wrong for someone who's not, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, into this topic day to day. Mhmm. And I see Roman So I have let me make one let me make one comment. So there is a way to search the archive, the mail archive. You put the eroded number in the mail archive of the working group, if there's any traffic in the working group, it pops up. But it's in the mail archives. Don't don't use your own version of whatever mail you have. In the mail, I'd be able to find it. I did just drag me. At right after I retired."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "So 3 days after I retired, I went through all like 16 of Acme's Arada found all of the email made a little document and shipped it and said, do this to these. And then they had to find the other link and then they had to blah blah blah. So Right. It is. It's crap. The, Sorry. Yep. The, the, the process that I was told was to reply to the email addresses I can't reply to something off of archive. How? A yeah. month. Oh, Okay. People are telling me that this is actually possible weird black magic. I don't know. Give me button. did. I No. I did that too. Acme was spend with all fifteen messages saying, Hey, is this still accurate because of them are old. some Also, recently actually, the RFC editor is reading out a bit more of the actual spam spam. So So it's getting a little bit better. Credit? Okay. Where did Roman go? Like, the weren't you go and work in the queue? Sean, Eric's next in there is Undershot Oh, okay. So I I was gonna decline in favor of the chair, but okay. Yeah. I mean, I mean, this, I mean, this truly is, like, I think it's well known that I am not ignorant of of the IRADA as a concept but, but they're even more useless in the current structure. So, I guess, if I may make a smart advertisement, Ferrell and I have been sort of like had a half coordinated kind of fashion trying to figure out some better way of handling this. Other people, I sent some put some links in the chat. If other people are jazzed about doing something about a runoff, please do reach out because I think we put both critical national and things that, like, made things better. And my my 2 by 2, I guess I guess my 3 statements would be 1 like, actually have diffs, not like this ridiculous old new stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "2, have it be searchable and 3 have some mechanism that actually actually like, when you run, does something. So, like, when you're pushing the button, it doesn't it doesn't just flip a bit in a database, people review the document, they see the erota. So I just said, but I just because I'm looking at the document of people in in the chat of people Like like I said, I'm I plan to to have this an an IHG retreat items. I'll definitely beforehand, and we can, we can talk about this. Hi. I'm not Sean, but I couldn't get the Wi Fi to work to put myself in thank you, kind of, for Sean Romandinilio, So I just wanted to kinda comment on the idea that we could fix the errata with better tooling. I don't have a specific answer, but this has been repeatedly told much of the workflow things we have talked about repeatedly told to the RPC kind of folks, they do have a plan that I explain because they are still working on it. To to re re kind of jigger this. So better tooling is is in the works But again, you, you would have to talk to them to get a better sense of what the road map is in the timing. I don't have So just I just wanted to comment that this is a known issue. Hi. This is Janfred. I still don't understand the errata process, of of of Okay. I have this thing, and now we have to do something with it, but who is actually doing what, at what point, and I tried to research it, and I couldn't really find something. So Is there any point where A. Relatively newcomer, can actually see, okay, this is a flowchart of events that are going to happen the pending router. That's that's a fair point. And, I'll make an action item for myself to actually add some link or information on this slide for the so that we have it at least from the next meeting on going forward. So so we can I can help with that because I I did it? But then mean, somebody has to do the leg work and then the AD has to do the real"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "like, make the change work. Okay. Then we've got the security area I'm pointers with links where, we will add to your other link. So, There's some common issues, common, there's a wiki, Currently, because we just switched ADs, just take a note that, So the working groups have been swapped to, from Roman to to me and our dep. Some of the documents that are, in, like, past past the ISG ballot, they usually tend to stay with the same area director, so they would stay with Roman. Currently, that is not entirely the case because of the switch on Wednesday, but the secretary will work on fixing those, those items. So You might see a lot of things that have been punted onto Deb, but, she's not actually getting all of enrollment will actually finish the, you know, the the last miles on the on the things that he's these answers. So kind of clarifying kind of point. So we are in a unique situation with the handoff those that have observed 80 handoffs before. Typically, Wednesday night happens in the plenary. Everything that the old AD had, full flush, it now goes to to the to the new incoming kind of AD and all of that state, all the forward velocity of previous AD reviews and kind of tracking them gets lost, and the new AD has to, in a sense, kinda pick it up or re regain the state. Potentially do re reviews. And so if this introduces typically weeks of delay, in a bit of a unique situation here in the given that I am still, on the ISG so I can, in fact, hold documents. So I have 11 documents that are after public. So I just wanna clarify. It's not in, HD review. It's after Puberex of some state of AD review or later. And so I'm holding those 11 documents just so we, you know, just not to introduce kind of more soon. I'll drive them to to to the end. And and so we'll we'll reflect that soon back in the data tracker. That'll just be fixed in over the next plate Is it?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "Because I because when I noticed Debt's backlog. There was a lot of backlog for her that were, like, in in back or later. No. So that there's some it's the new data tracker feature that says, what didn't you ballot on? And what you didn't ball it on is a different feature of the, of the data tracker. It highlights all the documents, that don't have sufficient ballots to pass, and Deb is the new coming has not had a chance to ballot on them, but it's still gonna show that there's not enough. And so those are not sec area documents. I think that's everyone's documents. Think I saw some different, but we'll take it offline and also the last link shows you what's actually on the next ASG agenda. So you can also see when, when your document's coming up. And and what other related documents are there that you might wanna go in. Remember, the ISG tele chat, the, the formal tele chats every other week where we where we discuss, our ballots is open for everyone to join. So feel free to join and and listening on on how the sausage is being made. I wanna say thanks to all the sector reviewer. There used to be a list here, and I got, tired of synchronizing them. In fact, the last, IETF 18 list was that IETF 17, for some reason, I think Roman managed to to, pull out everybody who actually did a review and put them on the page. So, this time, I'm just sending you a link to the group again, thanks for everybody, who is doing sector reviews I'm also a bit late with the announcement this week. My apologies, but on every Tuesday of IETF meeting, during lunch, we, we meet up and we discuss things related to, the the the sector reviewing process and interesting things that are happening related to that. Everybody who is who is doing sector reviews is invited to, to join them. The group, more or less consists of, working group chairs and former work group chair. So if you if you just got a new working group assigned for you for the first time in the security area, you will find"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "you are automatically added to this list of, volunteers to to do this kind of, grateful work and then I still have some statistics from Taro's slide. So you can see we since last IETF, we did a 180 sector reviews. Again, these are very useful. The ADs will actually look at that, when they're when they're also doing their review and their balloting. So it's really good have another another pair of eyes on it. We're pretty good at reviewing things. A lot of the about 50 the documents are ready. Others have, like, obviously, some issues. But if you look at the the knits and ready ones and, you know, we're getting at a pretty, like, 75, 80%. So that's, That's pretty good. That's pretty good. Then, for the completion stats, about half the reviews get done in time, about 3 quarters of the review and, at some point 8 at a time. So we're doing fairly well as well. Taro does some management on there too. So if reefers are getting too busy and they don't do refused, then, he will, like, not assign him anymore in the future. There is a tool. That's an option in tool where you can mark yourself, away. So if you can't review for the next you know, 2 months. You can, you can put that in a tracker so that, we skip assigning work to you. And then, we don't get, more incomplete reviews. And then that was it for the chair slides. So onto our only presentation today, is Erick, Eric, are you still there? Yes. Just press the button. Right. So, Yeah. So, well, I don't know, let's just slide 22. I think this I I took this from another I guess the numbers are goo oh, these are yours 22s. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "So, Basically, this is, I think, a plea for, some consistency. So, obviously, there's been a lot of motion in the PQ area and, you know, expect this to standardize mlchem, like, real soon, And the question is how do we deploy peak evaluations? Been a lot of interest, obviously, in standardizing these hybrid peak, artificial algorithms as as as as a as a quality of P Quip. That probably the, you know, probably a parrotamax examples X25509 plus ML chem 768. There's also X wing. There's like a bunch of other variants. So TLS SSH and lamps are all standardizing some, hybrid algorithm. I don't think we're doing too much detail what these mean. Like, largely speaking, you assign a code point And then the key, and, like, the public key is, like, just the other public keys glued together. Right? On, on, There has been some interest in standardizing PQL Rooms alone. Lambs has a has a candidate document. And this, CNSA 2.0 kind of like pretty strongly implies that that that they're not gonna wanna approve, hybrid algorithms at some point in the future. On your hand, TLS to society not to standardize, uh-uh pure PK algorithm, Martin, I didn't notice what Jose did. I didn't do a complete survey. Man, a this is called Fluor Sysco Systems. A com one comment. I was at the TLS Working Group, and I do not remember sporting group making that decision. And I just went through their notes I do not see that decision in there either. Sean, in your chair, do you do you disagree with my characterization? Knowing that you have another slide and having read it, the only thing that I was gonna point to be super pedantic was that we decided not to do this now. right Yes. That's all of the point I wanted to make. We did not make a a consensus call to, like, correct. That's who were we gonna pick this or not? Like, all that. We just kinda, like, We're gonna wait because, again, the thing's not done. So, again, you got another slide, so I'll set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "Or did you wanna talk about coaching, Jose? No. Ori Steele, Jose and Cozy haven't there's no drafts doing anything hybrid. There are drafts doing pure, PQ signatures, And HPKE stuff, And, I gave, along with Mike Owensworth, we gave it presentation of P Quip about hoping for someone else to solve this problem, we'll do whatever comes of that Right. So this presentation is entirely about key establishment. We can talk about signatures signatures are hard mode and and that key establishment is easy mode is the thing we're doing right now. Can I have the next slide? So I guess my question is, should we have a consistent practice across the IETF? I think this would be, one of either, which is standardize both the PQT hybrid and or and pure PQ, like two good points or, you know, end good points. And or the other is standardize just the hybrid now and we own pure pure PQ. I wanna emphasize this mostly does not mean people can't use per peer, PQ. We're we're rapidly moving towards a world where people can register code points that standard. It's certainly true for TLS so the question is not like whether you can use it. The question is what IETF is going to recommend. And so I guess I do have some feelings about what we ought to do. But, I my real feeling is that we should make it that, like, These protocols are all, like, very similar in terms of concept, and I don't see any good reason why, like, you know, causation, like, do one thing and, like, yeah, I should do another and so I guess I I think we could have a discussion about what we think good practice would be and then try to, like, do that across the area rather than kinda make individual decisions, and he's working So that's really what I'm advocating for. And, I think I should I wanna get out of the key, off the screen here, I just wanna tee this up and, like, I think I can be part of the microphone. Like, everybody else, if I have opinions. Hey. Sean Turner, TLS working group Go chair. Even in the stuff that I believe Georgia was proposing. It was informational, and there was no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "as I understand it, well, there was no actual request to try to change the mandatory to implement in TLS. So I mean, if we're trying to figure out what it recommends, I, e as in what we're gonna make mandatory to implement, you could still standardize, put things on standard track. Just not mandatory to implement. So there is that, but I think the important point is the middle one there. It says mostly you can register a coupon without a standard. That the minute the 5th is done, they can get a they can in IPSAC TLS and elsewhere. You can get a co point And then later, you can make the thing a standard. You can we can we can make it an RFC and then we can decide what track it's on. If anybody cares, Like, that that can all be done. So, I don't think the world's not ending. Like, we don't have to, like, change our process to get this thing ready to go by, like, September 1st. But I think the idea they had an RFC that was standard track that specified a code point, That's okay too because the mandatory implementing the protocol is not being proposed to being changed. Thanks. Hi, this is Hannes. I thought I heard that in coast and toasted, we don't have the hybrid, algorithms, and that's not at least, There are proposals, for hybrid using in incorporating into HTTP are using with HPPE. And there's one issue that relates to what you just said Sean, the question of, like, Xwing and co you have to, unfortunately, big one way to combine the output of the traditional algorithm, the the post quantum crypto algorithm in some way And, the question is there, What approach should be used. Or you have to select something in the document, and so. It's not purely informational or Sorry. I'm sorry, Sean. Sean, again, the point I was making was about the pure PQ approach. The one that Georgi was talking about. The combiner thing, yeah, that's all beyond me."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:05",
    "text": "On the should we have a single approach that's unified across IETF protocols. I don't really agree because, some of the chat has touched on this that some places can afford to TOS 1.3 can get away with a lot of things that other protocols might not be able to do because the TLS 1.3 key schedule is hashing in the entire handshake transcripts. Which means we can do a chem combiner for hybrid that a lot of other protocols can't do without putting in a whole bunch of other work and other places of their protocol. So I don't think of one size fits all can be done, even if the one size fits all is just so sort of do a hybrid hybrid chem combiner of some sort. Another problem with trying to achieve that is that a lot of people were probably gonna be asking, how do I do a hybrid chemical minor. Or hybrid combiner of some sort, and they're going to be like, CFRG. Please make a recommendation. CFRG is a no position currently, to have a document ready for hybrid can combiners for generic use age. For months, if not years, unfortunately. There was too much debate about this different positions. To get something ready to go for people to start designing with anytime soon. So I think unfortunately, it's going to be a bit bespoke, but not for like, special little reasons. It's just the protocols are different. We don't have consistent guidance, and we're not gonna have it soon. And then following up from that, There are protocols or there are people who use protocols, that will not be able to do, a hybrid and then a PQ transition."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "And I think the general consensus of people who look at this stuff is that Sitting on hybrid forever and ever. Is not the I I platonic ideal for our protocols. So having a PQ only solution for some of these things, especially for the key agreement stuff, signatures is a, you know, less pressing issue. And also it can be a bit more difficult to fit make them fit. But for key agreement, having a PQ only solution, may be amenable for protocols that optionally want to be able to do PQ only. And be able to just move to that and not think about it, especially if it makes them Fipps CNSA 20 compliant for those parties that care about that sort of thing. Hi, Michael, NCSC. And glad to hear that there'll be, kind of possible further discussions in, TLS discussions earlier in the week were really interesting. And, agree with deirdre that there are protocols specific considerations. But, on issues that come up all over the place, is Pequip a good place for those? That discussion Yeah. Martin Thompson, I'm gonna disagree a little bit with what Digi said the protocols that can only that cannot manage a transition away from particular Cyprus weight, any protocol that cannot transition away from a cyber suite that is known to be broken, is broken. And so we should probably try to avoid specifying those, but the thing I wanted to get up to say, was that I think there's one thing Aker missed on his slide here, which is that I don't think we need an a la carte, combiner, in involved in this process. I think we've we've done reasonably well with the sort of bespoke"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "pairings of classical and payq key exchange at least. I think the the signature side of things is No. So the point is We should not defined protocols that have a generic bucket for this will take any classic chem, and this will take any PQ chem, and we'll just combine them in. We're doing reasonably well with justifying. This is a Kim. And is a hybrid cam. And I think that would be a a recommendation that we could make more generally, which is to say that you, you make a combined chem that fits within the protocol. And and treat it as a single unit. Completed. Yeah. So, you know, Martin said on on surprising some of the I would have said, Martin, a 100% agree with you and not the a la carte thing. It might be a case that inside CFRG, they have some all the current mechanism that they use to develop the hybrids, but what they had, it delivered us is algorithms, which are, which which are combined in an appropriate fashion. And then as far as we know, they're camps. I think I think I I guess I feel like this question about, like, you know, TLS versus everything else, a bit of distraction, is true to your less has a particular, you know, key schedule that makes it, like, potentially less sensitive than other protocols. And they'll stay able to potentially use, like, a somewhat weaker, Kim was not legal guarantees. But I mean, may maybe I'm just administration, but it seems to me that it's certainly that it is possible for CFRT to deliver us Kims with strong guarantees that we suitable for both TLS and further protocols. And and and that that is what we're trying to deliver for us. And if we happen to be we happen to decide that it's worth taking the optimization for TLS in the short term or even the long term, that's fine. That we should attempt to have CFRT to give us primitives that are safe for that are safe for widespread use you know, and do not do not necessarily rely on the on the sort of specific properties of TLS. So, you know, if if it's if it's not possible, provide,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "a chem that has that property save for Jose, using a hybrid always to understand why. It seems it seems unfortunate. I'm I'm also not really persuaded by this argument about, like, they can only make one transition. I know people don't make 2 transitions, both the same as can't. And if they can't, then I think as Martin says we have much bigger problems. Mike Elsworth? I have 2 points. 1 is to respond to Martin and 1 is to make a process suggestion. So responding to Martin, I don't think anyone is suggesting totally a la carte combiners. Think that's a side discussion. Like, we're wasting air debating against an a null argument. Me 3 years ago was advocating for that, but me today is not anymore. Also, just to be clear, me today has a CFO, Jeff, looks a bit like it might be that. It's not intended. CFRG draft for generic combiners is meant to centralize cryptographic analysis. Not to be implemented directly. It's meant to be instantiated and then spit out concrete pairs. I just wanna clear up that I I don't believe anyone is actually proposing outlook or reminders. Let's waste energy arguing against it. We're on the same page. And then the process suggestion I was gonna make is is to move quickly, I think there's actually only a small number of authors that are behind all these chem commander drafts. There's maybe twelve people in the IETF who are author all these various drafts across work groups, maybe the ADs could just force us all to work together and we then we don't need a big centralizing mechanism. I am volunteering to help with the CFRG. Research area on hybrid cams, But but that silver in CFRG. So I'm around if that is a thing that the sec area chairs want to do. I wanna clarify that when I'm saying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "Some users of protocols. That the IITF maintains. Will probably only be able to do a PQ migration, whether that's hybrid or PQ only, I'm not talking about the protocol making it hard or difficult for someone to move from traditional to hybrid or traditional to a PQ or from hybrid to PQ. I'm talking about the real world costs. Of people who have things deployed. And having to be either forced by regulation or compliance to move, and the fact that they probably will not move again after they have gotten something deployed. That means that they are compliance, and they have checked that box. It's not about the protocols themselves. It's about the real world constraints of people who use the protocols. And so I'm trying to if we think. And I think a lot of us who look at the research for these PQ primitives are that generally moving to them eventually as a purely PQ only cam or a PQ only signature solution Eventually, would be good for people, period, as an option I think that should be made available and written down and looked at as a serious possibility, so that the people who can and will need to make that migration eventually. Can do it. As opposed to telling everyone, well, you have to go to hybrid first. And why can't you move from hybrid to PQ later. Because I think there are a significant number of people in the world who may not be able to do that, and it's not because of the protocol's faults. It's because of other forces in the world."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Hey, Sean Turner again. Of the things that I think is gonna happen in the real world is if we don't do pure the pure option. I think some other STO is gonna say, well, we want that. TLS, you're not really very responsive to us. What's up with that? I think we've we've become a victim of our own success, and I've I've you know, 3gpp is gonna be like, oh, in our, you know, use case where we rely on TLS, we want pure PQ. We don't wanna do hybrid. We want one of those. And I guess they can get one in the whole nine yards, but it would be better if we were actually, like, responsive to the wider community that actually needs to support these things. So There's that too. Paul Paul Hoffman wearing my DNS sec hat. I hear the word signature mentioned about once every 42 times. In this discussion. I'm sort of surprised because I've also heard TLS people say we're gonna need to do this for for the TLS signatures later as well and such like that. I I don't propose that signatures that, that, that, that, that, that, hybrid signatures beyond the exact same footing. As hybrid cams, but ignoring them is simply going to make when we do do hybrid signatures a lot more difficult because we will then have some protocols that say, Well, we're hybrid this way, but we're going to pure this way. And and here in between is when we think about signatures and so which way do we go and such like that? So I would ask people even though The need for for chems is much greater than the need for post quantum signatures. Just to be thinking about actively just not as actively as the counts. Thanks. Yeah. Uh-uh. I don't really think it's worth it as interest. I was trying to play an easy mode here. For the theory"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "theory that made me come to concerns on this. I get myself off on mute. So I will say that transition from algorithm to algorithm over real system. Takes a lot longer than you all the move from Shaw 1 to Shaw 2 within the DOD and that's within the certificate management systems within SMIME, within TLS took a solid 10 to 15 years. We were late deprecating that by a long time. And that's because the installed base takes so long. So so long to to update. That's the problem. So DOD can't make two transitions like that. Because USDAOD this is because they just can't make the infrastructure changes. They probably can't bear the formats, the bandwidth, or anything else. For hybrid. So I'd rather move them once to postpone. Not that I'm I'm retired, right? I'm not doing this anymore. I would but but it's better to move them once. To a to a post quantum algorithm. Then to than to figure out how to deal with the Bandwidth and the performance issues of hybrid. Scott Fluor might, in it's in my, my, trackers down. About bandwidth, Kyber or or mlchem takes up about, 800 bytes the ACDH can take up 32. Are we actually complaining you about those 32 extra bytes, I'm sorry. So it's more than that though. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "Scott, I mean, eventually, you're gonna move the signatures too. Is that true for the signatures as well? And it would be true. Cigna hybrid signatures are gonna be big. Correct? I a cert a post quantum certificate, at least the ones we have right now are are big. A post, a classical signature of, ECDSA would be 64 bytes. So boost quantum signature would be big. again, the Right. quantum signature would be big. Post Yes. I did yes. The ones we have. So I agree that that the that the key exchange has to happen first, right? That's protection of data in the long term. But I there are people that say that we need to move signatures now. As well. And there you do have a bandwidth. Yeah. I don't think you see how, doing hybrid really increases bandwidth that much. Proportion to how much the, post quantum signature is or and and public keys are right now. But regardless, the installed base changes. Are gonna take a decade, at least. Mhmm. I most likely agree. But it's, and I'm just, just saying saying that bandwidth is act a very minor consideration John Bradley. Hi, Deb. I I want to reiterate Deb's concerns about people's practical ability to migrate. 1 of my jobs responsibilities at the GSA back in the day was migrating people from Shaw 1 to Shaw 2. And that took similar. Yeah. That took similar amount of time and pain. And it's not just The size of the signature You know, some of us have to live with embedded systems."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "And it's also the amount of processing time and and and Yes. Post Quantum is always more than at least some of the non post quantum, though, Brain pool can also suck your soul dry. The You know, we have to In some of these applications, especially for things that we need to get. Fipps 140 certified you know, we have to start a process now for something that's going to actually come the other end in 2 or 3 years. Yeah. That's just the reality thank your lucky stars if you don't have to go through FIP certification. But know, the processing power, all of that. I think we should at least have an option, especially on signatures, to do a post quantum only signature so that we can at least target that. So it for one of the the main things I work on Web auth and, we actually have the ability to switch between algorithms quite quickly. You know, people can be using, a p384 signature. If there's concern that it's broken. The RP can say, ah, reregister with the post quantum. Algorithm. We don't have to So we can dynamically switch in the protocol on a fairly short short notice as long as we get it built into the hardware in advance. So the advantage of doing a hybrid signature so that If You know, if p p 256 is broken, you know, it still has some robustness. We would the more practical thing is to just reregisters people credentials with the pure post quantum So, but I think that ignoring pure post quantum is probably a mistake."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "I'm gonna try to sort of like pick up on the points Scott was making a few minutes ago. Like, The I I take the so is, like, definitely true that, like, performance, both in size, in size and sometimes in in in CPU is worse for for hybrid for for hybrid than classical, but The relevant point the point Scott is making, I think, is that the performance for hybrid is very versed in one of the programs are classical. And so great workflows. It's similar for us for PQ. And so argument. And so it's like, yes, a giant pain is transitioned to either PKU or hybrid. But like, from a performance standpoint, staying in hybrid in perpetuity is actually not that big a deal compared to using pure PQ. And so maybe if you maybe the other reasons to not do, hybrid in perpetuity, But, like, the fact that it's, like, got too much bandwidth consumption or tumor CPU is not really a very strong argument because, as I say, it's not really that much worse just doing pair of compute. Mike Elsworth. Same thing Edgar just said, but with data, If you look at the last presentation from, composite signatures, there's slide in there. We constructed a bunch of, composite and pure ML, the essay. Certificates. And and adding, adding the ECDSAs expanded the certificate by between 3% 4%. Adding RSA extended the certificates by about 14%. So there is data on that size in the last presentation. I'm Quindang at Niss, Hybrid or pure pure Peq, I think I understand the reason or one of the reasons why is people wanted to do a poor pure a PQ So let, let's imagine we live in the quantum world, right, and ACCR are broken. And do we want people to keep putting ACC into the system life for Avon TOS."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "For tuning of connections, year by year, wasting eternal energy. For for nothing in that word. So at least there are reason why somebody would not want that in that in that world. Mike Paroc here. Just wanna clear. And I think it's been stated pretty well, but I don't think we should be looking at the chem and PKE side of things the same way as signatures. A lot of the data that I deal with on the signature side has to be extremely long lived, and has to deal with, like, regulatory and judicial discovery and all sorts of fun stuff like that. You know, how did I know this wasn't tampered with? Very small overhead for us to do detached Coze you know, sign one on you know, those docs into, you know, twice, right, once once legacy, once with PQ. Right? And just to make sure we're covered, for the short term, but I don't really wanna start mixing and blending things on the signature side and introduce unknown properties that are completely unexpected. It's just much cleaner to do two 6 and be done with Okay. So, obviously, this is a great topic for discussion on the to continue. So so I just wanted to leave some time for for open mic in case people have something to say. And I will hijack the first item myself I know that radius has a document TLS PSK, that they would really like some extra VFuse for. So I am looking for 2 or 3 volunteers. I see Hans is 1. Okay. Going once. Going twice. Sean. Okay. And then Thank you very much. Julie noted in the minutes and hunted down. okay. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "not open mic, but with the last thing that you said about the last presentation. You said this would be a great discussion to have on SAG. Should we have it in parallel on Pequip? Should we have it only on 1 or the other? Could the security area directors pick 1, not that it's gonna last. I know that people will do one or the other. But to give us in Pequip, some guidance about whether we should be throwing these discussions over to say, or whether you wanna throw them over to us. And I'm not saying choose now. Well, before we have too much duplicate discussion, Please take where would be best. That's fair. So so before you walk away, so you think this discussion's fully in scope for Peacrep. It's in scope because our scope allows discussion of post quantum use in the protocols we're talking about. Okay. Then then Let's have it there. You can, but like you say, there there certainly is more energy right here right now in seg than there has been in Pequip. So please you guys think about it and let us know. I'm not saying it's should be in P Quip I just don't want Us and P Quip to go, oh, look. There's a new discussion Does this match what was in seg or not? Maybe this is P Quippy or not. You know, like, you guys decide and then pick. Yeah. Okay. Fair. Hi. This is Alan. Yeah, this post quantum stuff is great. Can we talk about MD5? know, Right? Let let's be realistic, you TLS's Great. It's up and coming for radius. But Radius still depends on MD5. Everyone uses it in various places, It will be going away with extreme prejudice. So let me just be very clear on that. If you're shipping radius with MD5, It will explode."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "Very, very soon, And part of this work is We're doing the TLS document to get, everyone to upgrade. So MD5 is great. Right? Let's kill it. Use it explode 50 Paul. I jump you in line to say this is a perfect example of transition. Or lack thereof. Right? Paula, are you still in queue? So then the queue is empty. Anything else? Going once. Going twice. Okay. Enjoy your koalas. One Yeah. Yes. Yes."
  }
]
