[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:32",
    "text": "so please find your seats we\u0027re starting in your okay we ready start this is the mpls working group in the ITF 101 in London if you think you should go to any other working group you probably should Lee now rest of us will start to go through a rather tightly packed agenda we actually 5 minutes over but we think we can manage that if you know you are the next presenter please come up and see it here so you can go directly onto the presentation next slide please so this is a new note well if my understanding of the English language is correct this actually says more or less the same thing but in the listen little different way that the previous note Wells did so basically everything you say in a meeting to one of the two co-author of its draft to one group shares to a DS and anyone else is considered a contribution to the ITF and take time to read the note well sometime yeah but we don\u0027t leave it up there now here\u0027s me doing audio streaming so when you\u0027re talking at the mic stay in the pink box we find the meeting materials in the data tracker I hope that Taric is said to take notes and we also had a scribe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:34",
    "text": "telling us that\u0027s fine thank you and that\u0027s on and you can also join me tech if you want to that here\u0027s the agenda it looks extremely packed though turret has been smart this time he is concerned of what actually takes time and that slightly swapping over between presenters so we have a a space of three minutes to do that we hope to do that quicker but because you normally do so the times might not be exact going down the agenda and we should be able to stop at at welcome we are starting to certainly blue sheets fill in pass them on and when everyone has filled them in person to the working group shares we have a number of the author\u0027s outstanding for the things that I for Sandra\u0027s eye all said that I actually bring it to the list for me it\u0027s very much a English language Arata and I want to have the working group and people that speak English better than I do to to look at that yeah and for the attitude I actually ought the author\u0027s to look at it so we will coming back to those erotic white zone we have in Centennial Asians since last time though we have a couple of incoming and I actually thought that we actually responded to the BBF one I need to talk to Debbie cynical and see what the state is really are we have let\u0027s see we had two new our seasons last time it\u0027s pretty much business unusual we have done one document in the order else here it is Q it\u0027s currently in the Edit state so it should pop up rather zone we have one document with the i IE SG and we have two new working with documents this is pretty normal that\u0027s what house always looks okay we have had a number of documents updated and if the document is more blue in on these license are coming now it\u0027s on the agenda the we have status report for some of them are going to talk a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:36",
    "text": "bit more about that so we have a number of new individual drafts and we have had one in a condom I don\u0027t know word but it\u0027s kind of it very unfocused discussion on working group adoption I think we converged on that one yeah this is for for the record if you want to go back and see how what the status was here when we were in London you can go back and look at those lines so at every meeting we asked for so we give the author\u0027s two alternatives either they put their draft on the agenda and actually talk about what I\u0027m what I\u0027m missing to do real progress or they can make a short status report so now we are getting into the status reports do I need to see someone oh okay and that\u0027s what I\u0027m basically what I said if you are an author of a working group document you need to either put it on the agenda or send us a status report we skip the actually details of the status reports yes now because I want to have Deborah coming up here as you all know I think by now especially if you were at the plenary last night it\u0027s a sad day sad week for us but it\u0027s also a happy time right that we will say goodbye to George as chair though I understand he will not leave us too desolate he will be that he\u0027s going to be the technical adviser so that means he will be following the mailing list and helping us out so George has some as you all know he\u0027s been the chair of the NPS working group now the first one more than 20 plus years more than 40 RFC\u0027s first RFC was the tag switching and kicking off and quests and as many have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:37",
    "text": "reminded me and even more important one was LSP ping he did the first RFC on traffic engineering and he has mentioned many of us many of us including me and everybody both how to participate authoring chairing and we owe him a lot really a lot so anyway just to make not drag this out too long [Applause] of course is that ITF way is only to have carry-ons when you come we wanted to make it extra difficult for his return home so we have really beautiful stature here for him and he will need special guidance to get through security with this okay so thank you George Thank You Deborah so I took this job I never really thought I would stick around this long but MPLS has been a very successful technology and it\u0027s successful because of the contributions everybody in this room and and those who came before us who retired before me but it\u0027s uh gets to be time to move on and and I think we\u0027re all in good hands here and you guys will carry on so thanks for being a great group so I would like to take this opportunity to thank your show so we\u0027ve been working together one way or another for more than 25 years your choise IRA know that he was the share or the buff before we had to become a working group in San Jose I don\u0027t know if you will share all the buff in Boston okay so let\u0027s see this Sun is here that it\u0027s a starting point for ambulance and sharing for four notes I was a little bit I don\u0027t know English were desolate I was kind of not feeling good about George "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:37",
    "text": "leaving so I asked him to become the technical adviser and Yosh accepted to do that so we will continue to work and together and we\u0027ll see how many years we actually can put together aiming for Turkey okay I think it\u0027s time to go ahead on the agenda and who\u0027s first I think very skewed okay so actually I\u0027m going to choose like how much I\u0027ve enjoyed working with Georgians of these years and how much of an inspiration you\u0027re both inside the company we work together and in the idea minutes please so they probably were looking at a problem is that the control blames for mini routing protocols or carried over simple transport a about UDP and TCP these control brains are good attack targets and their disruption or subversion kind of very serious operational consequences for the for the operation of the network LDP protocol very close to our heart here under mental the work we do runs over TCP and uses TCP md5 for authentication and the security area tell us that this is no longer considered sufficiently secure and this was brought up in RFC 59 25 they keep the security area keep telling us this and it blocks features that my features that we wish to add to LVP and so a group of us have decided that we really need to try and move this forward one way or the other either such that we have an alternative protocol or we have we come to an arrangement that in the app in the mode in which we use md5 it is satisfactory so lower did a small survey amongst operators and vendors it was an unscientific survey as is Perez admission I think slower they did this and maybe we could have asked the questions better and maybe we need to ask it properly the operators were asked if TCP Oh a TCP IO was available in their products and if so would they use it and would they be planning to deploy it vendors were asked if they actually had implemented TCP I oh well the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:41",
    "text": "operators said that they had no plans that it\u0027s due to deployed TCP IO tcpo is the obvious candidate for a more secure authentication scheme in in MPLA in LA in LDP so as far as they\u0027re concerned md5 is good enough it\u0027s in the operators products and all those that answered said that very few of there are very few authenticated lvp sessions run anyway and they considered there was a cost to deploy TCP AO the vendors position you know saying this very small and unscientific survey was actually most of us don\u0027t have TCP i/o in our products will be available by one vendor later this year and they were not able to vent to it that once they have you got it until the operators say that they need it so we have an interesting stand up what I think we need as a as a group is something there\u0027s more secure than md5 when used over the long live sessions that support writing something that can be run on all or at least most of existing root processes something that starts up and runs fast so that it won\u0027t impact Rican versions from a cold start yeah we can\u0027t forward to wait a long time for authentications to happen when we have a completely clean start in a route oh and it needs to be compelling to the operators so that they will demand it from the vendors who will in turn will put it in the product now what we\u0027re doing we\u0027re looking at T CPO because that\u0027s the current obvious candidate for securing TCP we think we probably also need to look at other methods to see if any of them these needs better we\u0027re having discussions with the main protocol groups that are in the same position bgp OSD P\u0026P set and we\u0027re talking to a large number of the working groups that are impacted and we\u0027re going to go along where i\u0027m going to go along to the site meeting the security area meeting later today I think true to tell the security folks that we really need long-term guidance from them as we work through this property so this needs to be a partnership with security so that whatever we do we\u0027d ever where we go they won\u0027t keep raising this as an issue on why we should on and holding back minor improvements through LD P minor feature requests so our request to the security area is going to be we need help you can\u0027t do this on our own we need security designers involved rolls-royce solutions are unlikely to find their way into RFPs that set the implementation specifications we need a pragmatic simple approach that operators "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:41",
    "text": "find compelling can easily deploy which will cause the security technology to be pulled into product Jeff has wrote a much longer and more comprehensive presentation and presented it to the IPG meeting on Sunday I\u0027ve attached his presentation to the end of these slide in case people want to look at it I don\u0027t intend to go through today though and so that\u0027s where I\u0027ve got to with where we got to with this so we need help we\u0027re trying to work with security to have a solution to this long-standing standoff questions but then just ever comment you know I am aware of quite a lot of vendors supporting you the last thing be it at least I had heard was that while we have shipping implementations the folks weren\u0027t too keen on deploying it if you\u0027re going to talk to the routing force maybe it would be interesting for you to come and talk exciter ops as well where the security for bgp is being talked about and maybe have a conversation with operators and and see if there is have they taken on deployments for you the acoustics are absolutely dreadful in here so I didn\u0027t entirely understand that the acoustics are absolutely powerful in this room just a key point and everyone has got it because I couldn\u0027t hear it so here pretend one more time I am I know quite a lot of vendors support a oh I know quite a lot of vendors then deploy here and they were pretty happy with TCP md5 with Kiro lowers as long as the vendor implementations supported creator lowers that being said I think it\u0027s about time where people should move to a OH and if you are going to talk to routing protocols crew there might be an interesting conversation if you come down to cider ops and also talk about this to the operators and gently nudging folks to move on to a oh and deprecated TCP md5 jared montz from alkaline so there\u0027s a lot in here that\u0027s kind of hidden and embedded Jeff highlighted many of these things I have TCP sessions that have been up for close to a decade with some of my you know you know BGP peers and so with the security area expressing these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:41",
    "text": "concerns many of the things many of the enhancements that they\u0027ve done in transport layer security and that\u0027s happened in the transport area don\u0027t really address the type of long-lived state that exists in routers that may have very high uptime especially when where do we failover and other activities to keep things up and this also applies to things like LDP where we need to go and have a stable way to do this also many in many cases this the security keys if configured stay static for the lifetime of forever there is no good way to do with TCP md5 rollover juniper did it did a keychain method where you could do time exchange of the md5 exchange but I I don\u0027t know anybody who\u0027s used it outside of the laboratory when I talk to other operators and it\u0027s much easier for up for the people who operate networks to just configure it once and then move on having some sort of transition path for many of these technologies if you have an ibgp mashin or if you have an LD p mesh protected and you need to do key rollover you\u0027re going to have to cause a global outage for your network as a result so as much as the security folks would really like us to change we\u0027re kind of stuck in many ways and it\u0027s going to be a great deal of difficulty to even implement that operational guidance it\u0027s not impossible but like I said it\u0027s going to be very very hard and I want to make sure that as these conversations are being had folks are thinking about this yes I mean that that kind of reinforces the message that we were think it would be good if you delivered that message to the security area that it\u0027s not as simple as it looks jeff has so care to the best of my knowledge nobody inside from a draft patch for Linux implements actual a oh so number one if you\u0027re aware of shipping implementations that claim a Oh RFC compatibility please post it to one of the list - it is my belief that you might be thinking of the draft Bonica stuff that AO is based on which juniper supports the No - for version and I believe Cisco supports the - six so we already have a interrupts headache there as well so surely people are using this as a yes sub in for AO because it does not actually exist at the moment but the draft panic I give us some of the properties but there\u0027s problematic fritter up John Scudder so I I think you correctly identified the the spectrum of problems that there are to solve and you know Jarrod "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:41",
    "text": "comments I think correctly punched out that they\u0027re hard problems one thing I want to draw our attention to is that there\u0027s at least two different problem sets that were based together on your slides one of them is the sort of process issue of moving documents forward through a security Directorate that has certain desires requirements of us whatever as far as I can tell those could basically be satisfied by offering them a transport security that has the mathematical properties that make them happy that would not satisfy the operational issues that Jared was talking about at all but this is probably a good place where you know to divide and conquer and I will point out the AO already you know has pluggable you know hash algorithm so it\u0027s it\u0027s possible to say okay look we\u0027re going to provide a transport mechanism that\u0027s you know sort of satisfies the right mathematical security properties and oh by the way we know that that doesn\u0027t really satisfy operational security but that\u0027s an orthogonal issue that can also be worked on either you know at the same time or you know in due course but by the way I\u0027m not trying to say that the operational issues aren\u0027t important I think they\u0027re more important date so but one of the problems we have with paio when we looked at it was there\u0027s no diff no sort of mandatory to implement hash that goes with it so we\u0027ve got to decide which one everyone implements that it has a companion document the the whatever the next one in okay sequence the RFC sequence is that specifies I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s mandatory to implement but it specifies a hash so that pair of RFC is is complete right but we actually have to sort of specify which one it\u0027s going to because it and by the way if anyone wants to help us with this every we just kick this off because we had a need to do it I\u0027m more than happy to anyone to help or to take over if they\u0027re if they\u0027re more familiar with the space Stefan Wilson from orange ITF can\u0027t appreciate CPOE Cyrus that\u0027s fine but now talking from an operational point of view if the vendors are keeping supporting TCP md5 implementation why should we move because there is an operational cost for the migration and it does not really bring you strong benefit at least for us so while the vendors are still supporting it we will not make it I\u0027m sorry at least for the migration point of view for new implementation why not it would be really useful it would tell security folks that because we don\u0027t have to keep having these bytes at the risk of repeating ourselves md5 is very very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:45",
    "text": "close to broken if somebody gets in if somebody does discover an attack and they can get in very easily so the motivation for fixing things before they attack you is to prevent them from doing so I would hope that in this day and age we understand that that security requires that we be proactive I was around BGP before the reset attacks and couldn\u0027t understand why nobody cared about security and the learning from that time onwards has been for me that people are very reluctant to do anything till the disaster happens so my take is you have very little success with this unless until there is a disaster and whether that disaster is going to be one year out to five year at I don\u0027t know but I think our responsibility is to make sure we have specified something that would have prevented the disaster so when the disaster actually happens then the solution it rolled out in the way that md5 was rolled out after those reset attacks and I remember so well thank you a solanum Cisco Systems I just wanted to point out that at least from a standards prospective I don\u0027t know if people I know some people have implemented the key agility at least for OSPF but I don\u0027t know about algorithm agility I believe it\u0027s at least for always PF algorithm agility but it\u0027s easier it\u0027s easier secure protocol like OSPF then it is TCP I agree but 81 77 allows for both algorithm and key agility so the whole you know if if it\u0027s implemented the whole issue of not being able to update your keys you should be able to do this on an existing session it\u0027s just a matter of the implementations getting it right 81 77 is the yang model for key chains and it describes what Jerry was alluding to how you do overlapping keys and use important you know you send you\u0027re you support both both keys on accept and you send the most recent one and then we\u0027re not everybody\u0027s world you know it I mean you can you can on that envision how it works but that\u0027s even described in the Narciso so the operational stick from a standardization point it exists you know and conceivably you\u0027d have yet you know you use that that copper restaurant to push it all your devices in your domain okay well engage in the dialogue please because we want to do the right thing for the IFA and also if you really think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:47",
    "text": "you have relevant information please send that to the authors I have a feeling that asking so it was a very unscientific survey we did but the feedback was that there are very few authenticated LDP sessions out there the Iran md5 vs. shed some good ships and checksum tool but it\u0027s not really any authentication so we should not be a trusted third party to do a find out what the state of the world is I don\u0027t know who we would get to do this but it probably shouldn\u0027t be anyone attached to an operator or vendor University I think it would be useful okay find out what the real state of the world is okay I think we stop there and then you go on with your next presentation okay so I\u0027m doing a poor impression of Adrienne for this next slot so we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re talking about the MPLS based forwarding plane for service function chaining that about the list over the last a few a few weeks so next I don\u0027t I so here\u0027s the agenda we won\u0027t talk about the objectives and the non objectives of the designer I give a very short overview I\u0027m going to talk about the Edit the issues and the editorial changes that will go in to 0-5 of the document which had not yet been released and what the future plans are so if you recall what the SFC architecture looks like packets flow from source to destination they\u0027re classified into a service function path the service function path diverse is a series of service functions known as service forwarder functions each SFF and delivers packets to the service function SFP on a specific service function instance the SFC proxy may an SMC proxy may be interspaced between an s FF and an SFI in order to allow a legacy front service function instance to a deal with the service function chain so what are our objectives we\u0027re not trying to replace our obsolete the nsh that\u0027s been designed in the SFC working group and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:47",
    "text": "it\u0027s not out most to touch it we\u0027re looking at a specific environment where deployed MPLS rooters can serve as service bunch of orders we want to make no change to the forwarding plane we want to work we using existing MPLS forwarding operations it\u0027s push pop and swap and we want to be able to forward SFC packets at nights so we\u0027re looking for a high-speed implementation using existing hardware where their hardware is already deployed in the network our aim is to get high level of SMC functionality possibly has some features some features will be sacrificing to do this they will be sacrificed to do this we must support the SMC architecture we would like to support metadata as we can and we and it\u0027s an objective to try and integrate with the control plane work that such as the work going on in the best working group so the overview of the solution is that we\u0027ve designed this based on a to label block an FC FC context label and an SF at our service function label so labels will go into the stack as pairs neither of the labels is allowed to be a reserved label the SFF uses the top label first label it pops to identify the path providing local context and to select the path of the to the next s FF and uses an SF s as the second label to identify the service function that\u0027s rien SF l I think in that and I said yeah the second label the SFF uses the SFL identifies the SM so nits and editorials these are the things that we change from 0 1 to 0 for RFC 80 381 74 have been published we\u0027ve changed the use of the S flag and the S appeal to be the s bit what it should be bunch of abbreviations have been expanded we\u0027ve added a section on proxies which I\u0027ll talk about later we\u0027ve clarified metadata usage and we fixed some of the typos so below the discussion about sick of routing an Adrian sent a note from the from the author team to the list we we don\u0027t think really this is segment routing that we\u0027re talking about we\u0027ve removed all discussion from about about second routine specifically MPLS SR we only talk about normal MPLS forwarding plane operations pusher pop and swap as absolutely you know the the keynote of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:48",
    "text": "the work we do here we\u0027ve not discussed the control plane mechanism is in any detail we need to continue to discuss the use of labels doing flow code information included in an SH how to handle metadata data with labels some people like the idea of doing this some people don\u0027t we need to have the discussion we nee it seems that that the draft is now in a state or it will be in a state where it\u0027s really an MPLS draft and but we will need to review it in the service function training working group so as stated in the objectives are built from ordinary MPLS rooters able to forward packets at line speed built on the functionality of seven six 65 and 80 300 we think that this will provide a migration assistance allow people to get experience with service function training if you allow them to use provide gateways for use with control plane and other tools and it would be easy to use SFC in existing networks there\u0027s a debate on whether such a service function forwarder should exist should we need to know whether the author should describe how the SFF functionality works or whether and that should be left for the implementers and the vendors as part of their their some private work who is not our objective to obsolete or modify the nsh we assume that that work will continue and will continue to deployment so 0-5 will add clarity red text clarity on the objectives and the non objectives I thought John was going to say something um service function training so transport independence the NS H is transport independent this draft shows how MPLS can be used as that transport we think that this is the most likely use of this particular block of work between SF deaths and the service functions n SH and this document or transport independent there\u0027s a discussion on the next slide about proxies and SF\u0027s are usually Ethernet vh r and p w attached so you know then there needs to be some sort of mapping between the two nothing we don\u0027t propose to add any text on that 2:05 we think that is covered so far in the existing text if there\u0027s anything needed please tell us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:52",
    "text": "SFC awareness and SFC proxy so SFC aware means able to handle the SFC encapsulation service function forward are usually SFC aware but might be programmed with label forwarding operation spot mapping ports to to label position etc service functions are usually legacy in a VN s and p NS and are not SFC aware by definition so in order to get between one and one world and the other we have to use a proxy proxy has to strip the encapsulation past the payload to the service function receive the service function output back using the ontological port and then impose the encapsulation needed to get to the next service function NS asian MPLS encodings have identical requirements and issues in this regard stewart preeminence metadata the document acknowledges that we can\u0027t really think that nsh can do we can\u0027t carry metadata in the same way this discussion about how we might put some types of metadata into the packet through a label but also have this you know the possibility exists that the metadata could be carried out of bound drunk already provides explanation about this and we don\u0027t plan to change anything for 0-5 control main this document doesn\u0027t discuss the control plane but a control plane almost certainly will be needed the number of options here probably need a yang model if someone would like to write one that would be most welcome the SR type approaches Joe who is got a draft over in spring so we should think that that should be pursued over there there is a best draft on the use of BGP and again you know BGP seems to be the right way to do it in in the legacy world so the next steps this is the last night I think they\u0027re almost these to polish but we think this is now relatively stable support for swapping and stacking is a common way took some effort but we think it\u0027s got good benefits fits with the best control plane work so the authors the approach seems obvious and the authors think that this is in charter for this working group use of special-purpose labels definitely belongs in MPLS but obviously needs to be reviewed with the service function chain working group so I think the the action for the chairs is to decide whether this belongs and to resolve yet any of dr. adoption issues and the action proper for participants is to objectively have an objective discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:53",
    "text": "of the design so that\u0027s the end any questions my name is Joe from Alibaba how a question since post this job and my job are intended to leverage the existing MPs forwarding Magnum to realize chain I just want wonder whether the true draft should be pursued without which Artie each draft each working group or we should wait for recharging each working group and continue discussion those technologies it really it\u0027s up to the chairs right the chairs of both working groups and the rads own where work is pursued right our view is that it fits well in here it\u0027s well within scope and that\u0027s where it should should take place you\u0027re welcome to work with us on this but help you is that this is an MPLS issue but it\u0027s not my position as in order to oppose this it\u0027s up to the chairs and the ADEs so I\u0027m somewhat resistant to waiting for things to be retired because I\u0027ve had experiences where the retired chartering took far too long and you know so I brought prefer that we progress the work and then if we get recharter we can sort it out at that point in time where the documents you progressed to answer and you kept your line off to you and I\u0027m before you aren\u0027t in the line so this is the so there is no need to reach our MPLS to do this work we can just go ahead and do it if any other working group need to be restarted to do it well we will go and do what we can do what we can do with MPLS work if we if we decide to actually do it it is not a restoring assume I\u0027m a sure yes so we do have an overlapping I\u0027d it doesn\u0027t matter where we progress the world but I think the zoo RAF and this job is overlapping so if we need to resolve that we should do that in this working group here right okay yeah Stuart do you want some up okay so we stop here next week is CEO who you use that might you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:55",
    "text": "have the slides there and you have implement to move slice around zero they were one version dropped is murder of the following to chart sex robbing for his coordination 22 apart I\u0027m sorry that we couldn\u0027t beat some causes who are contributing on so two jobs on from page object first we want to turn on MPs as our another over q IP network this is useful in the incremental deployment of MPs SR snarl second we want to enable MPs SR in ipv4 and ipv6 networks and interim of as re six in this use case you can say - as our domains are interconnected over IP network we can use either we can use any MPs who IP encapsulation magnets such as MPs or UDP MPs or gie and whatever second case is unable as our MPs wielding IP network in the case we can realize IP on the way while we can leverage them empty SSR network program technology in fact this case could be looked at a special case of the former case if you look if you take the MPs as our Island and a single as our node to take MPs over UDP encapsulation as example here the MPS a label stack we encapsulated in UDP header the UDP tano a UDP destination odd indicate gdb payload is MPs packet a UDP sauce pot is filled with HIV labels the IP destination indicates the next SR router which have been indicated by the top "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:55",
    "text": "level of received MPs packet and you can say from this details since the source part the UDP handle is filled with HIV label if this the table label could be contained when the the packet that the capsulated UDP hender that the job label could be reviewed well really encapsulate the MPS packet with a new UDP header in this way is same no need or lemonade to need to insert one or more inch oval labels into the MPs label stack this is very useful in scenario where still has Hardware limit on the label stack readability and misses such an calculate this picture shows how to do packet forwarding with PHP see since the PHP is enabled when when SR notice that packet who next SR know the top label will be popped and then he capsulated remaining empty etiquette between a UDP handler this picture shows one PHP is disabled then the MPS label stack the in to save the packet that means the MPS label stack the top level of the ampion label stack should not be popped when encapsulated the packet with a new UDP header for whole solution controllable a control plan work is needed such as say about heisman tunnel calculated a lot of development but we believe it should be described in suffering document so we\u0027ll move some detail discussion from this draft next up since the 80s have rich agreement that the work should be done here and the technology self is stable now we\u0027d like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:56",
    "text": "to request so you want to change that question mark to an exclamation I\u0027m sorry right now I\u0027m actually are you asking for working group adoption okay but you have a question mark up there that\u0027s why I\u0027m asking you said that you also were given to remove some material from this draft so do you consider it stable enough anyway so the edits you have planned would be possibly get those done a very timely matter and then people could look at the document as it will be rather than okay so we go ahead with the next presentation that\u0027s Curtis [Music] ah here is I was careful starting to look around and push you up from the left the clicker yeah yeah okay sometimes ice this is Emily extend a formal apology rowdy this is Brooklyn with Cameron with Geoffrey and my caddy so it\u0027s been a while since I actually presented an MLB Draft here is Brooklyn and then actually fully occasion of you know George\u0027s lost chair here look through all the drafts we found actually one that we didn\u0027t submitted yet so that\u0027s why we decided our friends for this elated thanks your table in order to help with ever loopy drops with the last year\u0027s actually so this was a draft that we submitted but we sort of lost energy on it because for most apology routing that never really got the points so it was never really a real reason to move this draft forward now they did change a little bit now lost months because there\u0027s new work being done on HP algorithms but actually gets you so it is same solutions so reading the green in the draft and resubmitted now to support Milt apology routing in LDP a new address assembly has been created for LDP so that others from the encodes an IP address and an empty ID right for both the foreign key six so we\u0027re gonna usually exact same and assembly for ml DP so then you know that Ed Assembly applies to let\u0027s say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:58",
    "text": "all the ml to be settlements where your ankle pro universe so that\u0027s the multi-point address effect and the pipe Wildheart multiple factors and also we also introduced a new capability just you may need to speak up a little more because they were getting bleed from the other room and it\u0027s hard to hear back okay [Music] okay is this better okay sorry buck you owe me to restart okay so we also introduced a new capability right to know whether your neighbor supports a particular address family right otherwise you don\u0027t you don\u0027t send it now so the reason this God you know we\u0027ve got new energy to which pushes forward is is what we call the Flex algorithm which is both defined out for is yes and OSPF and flex algorithm is really a mechanism to sort of create a more lightweight sub topology so we don\u0027t need to do a full north topology but it\u0027s more lightweight and for multicast what\u0027s really interesting is the life life mechanism right red or blue redundant apologies so for that this technology is really interesting so what we do so and as I said software for LDP there was a small tree topology at assembly created but that only encodes the NTID and what we do is we augmented that encoding and take eight bits of the reserved fields to encode the IGP algorithm that we call the IPA field so basically the combination of the empty ID and the IPA creates a unique effect so each node that receives that combination can now take the empty ID the IPA and identify exactly which unicast routing instance you want to look at in order to resolve the route address to determine what your upstream LDP neighbors and that\u0027s it any questions oh good okay thank you so I like the fact that you actually bring IPA into standard saying thank you yeah commemorate our select we did for beer so sorry nyan cat actually from the be a working group to be in sync Cameron Cameron you\u0027re next hello everyone my name is karma Reza I\u0027m going to give a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:58",
    "text": "very quick update on LTP and LEP yang module activities so these are set of authors I\u0027m presently on their behalf this draft we have been presenting and updating for a long time for many IDF\u0027s there is five or six main list of authors but we have lots of contributors who have contributed through this work so a revision for we posted right before I clear a cutoff date in this revision what we have mainly is we addresses all the just all the comments from the yang doctor review from Jan we are thankful for his detailed review of the yang motto for LDP we were also missing a specification for the default values for the configuration parameters which was also one of the comment from the yang doctor so we have also updated those we have added a couple of minor configuration items which were missing in the original model especially specifically to handle dual stack in case of LTP v4 and v6 interworking and coexistence some of the some of the features that we had they were already an extended model if you just recall LDP had two models based model and extended model so so they were already part of extended model but they were not higher feature so they have been made feature and so this revision for was updated and we have few open items in the previous revision so right now this revision has no open items left so right so just just to highlight what young doctors comments were main comments so one of the main comment was that we have some funding to do work in the draft to close on open config IDF and nmda compliance so we have taken care of this item and now we are aligned with nmda model they were lack of default and mandatory you know attributes for some of the leaves they have been taken care of some other - stuff about better description of the Leafs and some automated mention regarding the password handling we have a d5 so right now our password handling in this draft is based on what most of the different deployments are so over base model uses mp5 and our extended model allows you to configure and based authentication for LEP but I but if there\u0027s a need and discussion based on you know earlier presentation by stay board on md5 we may react but right notice how the model is written we also took care as I mentioned about some of the default values so about a whole time you know gee our goal time session people our whole time so what we have the approach you have taken we have not specified for everything you know default values so the values which are already defined in some of these RFC\u0027s for LTP we have used those values the other other leaves which are not defined in RFC aware where the default values are not defined in their respective Alexei\u0027s we have you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:00",
    "text": "discussed within a team and come up with a good compromise so you know you\u0027re encouraged to look at the model and comment on default values you know and you can provide us a comment offline if if you you feel otherwise so next step for this drop so we are I think authors believe that the drop as goes all the open items we are at a stage where we can because I work in coop last call so with this position will like to ask for a bigger blast call from the chairs and the working group so yeah I heard I have one question if you look at the current abstract it\u0027s and I should have pointed this out before since I part of the design team yeah but it\u0027s rather better it\u0027s very short and it doesn\u0027t really yeah you need to do an awful lot about both LTP and Jiang to actually understand so say in the abstract I think it will be good to actually expand it like one or two sentences to and they\u0027re all good information in the interaction is just moving them into the abstract yeah we should do that that\u0027s not what responsive interaction already have a good suggesting bring some of those sentences back into our sexual yeah but we also know that the abstract is kind of important yeah so we need we need to need to capture enough in the abstract to to make it tightly grab the reader which is help plenty of opportunity to make that happen between the time it becomes you know goes to last call and and actually gets through i.t yet last call on all those things so you know I think we can handle that abstract gaspar little workgroup last call I was more asking for the reaction from Cameron but do you okay so during the working table was called we supply text for an updated abstract that\u0027s so you are saying that you don\u0027t have to spend any division we can take it as part of what you Pascal and comments so the working group last call process starts with a review from the one group share to see if really ready to go if that review results in request for an for another new version then we think we should do it I will wipe you don\u0027t need to do it any any commerce from the working group any questions I have one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "question okay so is it this light I think it is okay if there\u0027s no comment on MVP so what you can go to just quickly Emily P this is really a real quick a bit for ml DP and data model which we are producing in parallel as a separate graph so status for this job so we were focusing on LDP and to make it ready for working coab last call so no revision has been updated since last idea the pending item of the same well VP drops are again we are we are still appending some default values for some of the complication options minor cleanup is needed for this document and I think the one of the main thing that we are we have requested yang doctor review we haven\u0027t received younger career for this document yet so once we receive this you know yog doctor zero or next step is to address those comments from the under actor and address any remaining open items and we are hopeful that mostly we are does those this document should also be ready for working blast cough and you\u0027re talking about Montreal timeframe or next meeting yeah it depends on how how soon we can get yanked out receive you comments and then we or we should be able to address them before March other if you see them pretty soon so again I want to point out it\u0027s not necessary to wait for the next meeting you can actually ask do it on the mailing list also the working of share to start the working group last call a cylinder Cisco Systems you know I did an early review on this for the anchors and I don\u0027t remember getting anything more than a thank you from her as to my comments as they call this I did it earlier yang doctor review on this dock on this model okay I only pee only but at one point is what LD P and M le P for a combined document and combined monstrous ml DP okay I remember it was a can American III remember the the richness of the definitions really amazed me but so it\u0027s a compliment or I\u0027m assuming I wondering who would ever use anything that complicated that was my but I\u0027m not an expert in ml DP anyway so a supported you see we actually missed something yeah Tara no I know I did I did get I did this was this was months ago yeah I did I did you know there\u0027s an early review yang Duchess view and I did do one but I don\u0027t remember receiving responses to all my comments whether they were accepted or you know okay so we have name to shakaama yeah okay okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:09",
    "text": "any other comment nope okay Thank You Cameron who\u0027s next oh yeah it\u0027s Greg okay Greg mercy on behalf of my conference been a while since we discussed it they\u0027re just editorial changes not much change to the model itself updated references so what model includes maintenance entity group made in this entity fault management performance management their fault management our spitting for anti OSTP is supposed to come from the separate model do you need to be using the UDN model performance monitoring yes there is a question of whether anybody will start doing 63 74 was delay measurement model because then entellus TP will be just the profile so we do have to RFC\u0027s that demonstrate how to do proactive or OAM function management through our suite ET extensions and extensions to LSB ping so that definitely helps in developing the yang model and itu they\u0027re doing information model for MPLS TP it\u0027s a g8 152 so out of information model as I understand receiving or pulling on data model is the technical issues nothing so the there are series of open issues and recently we had a discussion with Sasha lunch team and who participated and such a broad series of questions very good detailed and pointed questions that I would like to set forth to the working group because we need to decide whether we want to continue this work and complete mpls TP om and I would say that given the scope of ITU work it will be ITF defined or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:12",
    "text": "him to set because I tu covers their own om what they did extending internet om or extending 1731 and if we decide that we want to complete that we need to analyze all this RFC it and see what needs to be included and what already will be covered by itu work so comments suggestions and discussion now over on the list it\u0027ll moosa from away just at point for information JT 152 is developing information model for MPLS tpoem and covers both ITF and i QT tools and is more based on the functions and then you can have additional attributes depending on the tool so and the question is will be about how do we want it are they did this DM order to be structured based on the functions or based on the tool and or based on a common architecture like Meg and all the stuff we to figure it out that it\u0027s not easy who is doing the water okay that\u0027s great news because when I looked at model might be I had earlier document but it was not obvious that they cover LS be paying and Vivi yes because they call it based on the function they call is a continuity check and collectivity verification proactive and on-demand and then that\u0027s the tool that the canoes can be EFT or can be 731 tool that\u0027s why it\u0027s not that straightforward to understand so basically it\u0027s more like a mountain point it\u0027s I want to configure activities checker between a and B at this rate and then Daniel\u0027s you have another attribute assess the tool to be used as PFD or sorry to achieve our CCM so basically them still you need a specific model that does this method yeah you need a tool that\u0027ll be the configure attribute is the same the rate is the same no matter whether we use PFD or CCM so the attributes the same and then when attributed says is the tool that is the CMO PFD and then if PFD requires additional attributes then you have additional attributes that are only for PFT so that\u0027s the way to structure the the model in 81 52 so as much as possible comma so durability commands that you need to do our 90% of the time independent from the tool and for the difference is you have a few attributes that are specifically thank you right on this is unity from Fujitsu and maybe my commented reindeer overlap with it\u0027ll at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:12",
    "text": "my comments regarding the ADA 152 and maybe at used to be consider how the entity Meg map as constructed area 182 point to the point of view and I\u0027m very happy to us coordinate with the in this imperious tpoem young here yeah arraignment is better so again the area 182 I described C or a man takes a point of view fair that we embed included modak point of view and please construct on this point and actually ITIL sent to the IDF after the February meeting the latest draft a table 52 so maybe you can eat it thank you okay so thank you for updates and again offers appreciate their discussion and feedback and decision by the working group whether the work to be continued and then discuss the scope of the work yeah yeah no I think it\u0027s linked to the drop maybe if you if you if you move to them and I\u0027ll make sure that I afford if I have it okay so give me some time so if I understand correctly we are going to pull up one more presentation from Craig and in the meantime we will have a Carson coming up and doing his presentation thank you my name is Carsten was enough of me NTC we\u0027ve been testing MPLS related multi vendor interoperability for the last 15 years I just looked up our first report from 2003 we tested IRC 25:47 biz was a couple of implementations and I always thought back at that time I would really love to get to know other guys who wrote this stuff really ingenious and new stuff so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:12",
    "text": "here I am so we currently were testing mostly Sdn PCE segments routing EVP and related matters and our test only completed by Friday last week so we haven\u0027t been able to gather all of the results from 21 random so far yet so I just like to focus one topic here which is LSP ping so in effect we we tested a whole lot of areas we have like some 6070 devices in the test from 21 vendors focusing on a wide area networking data center peering stuff like that and of course all of the Sdn control yang models etc the results will be published in 3 weeks from now at conference in Paris and so what we tested here what which focuses on this working group is our C to 80 to 87 LSP ping and traceroute for segment routing with MPLS data plane so in all configurations is is with as SR extensions was configured so everything seemed well from the get-go we started preparing this in October last year we had numerous conference calls with all of the vendors interested 8 vendors planned to participate in the end only 3 of them succeeded so 5 venice couldn\u0027t interoperate at all and the reason for that is i will explain in a moment but basically we had two scenarios we had one scenario for a ping and traceroute with an emulated link failure allowing us to see the effects of change in the topology and subsequent change in the traceroute results and the second one set up in the bottom right the diagram here for ping which allowed us to ping from north one to all of the other nodes in this topology so clearly simple fairly straightforward and then we mixed and mention all the different vendors as we went ahead so what happened was that it seems like the RC e 287 is pretty complex to interpret so it\u0027s a very elaborate document with many details many options for different effects for you know routing options and so on and so on as you know and so one vendor immediately so like actually you know this we can\u0027t do all of this multi hop FEC stuff so we only support single bob ping and traceroute then we select single hop trace right that\u0027s not really how its intended to be but anyway so those guys have to go back and do some homework but the other seven vendors struggled a lot on the interpretation of the sub TLB actually the type and links in an effective stack Giove so I looked through the RFC and I saw like this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:12",
    "text": "not the main point and there it turns out the links is actually never defined anywhere we have to go back to our CA t29 to really look at the links and there is an example somewhere page 15 I think which says a length equals 13 so it\u0027s easy oh the links does not include reserved elements that are bytes that exist there in the TLB but are supposed to be reserved at 0 so the length should be the net length not including reserved stuff although it\u0027s there so two of the vendors agreed with me and the other said like no actually we should we think the length should be the full lengths because if we don\u0027t have the full length then how can we find the next ste so there is a certain major confusion in the industry which might I don\u0027t know might be reasonable to result in errata or some sort of clarification to a t29 or or the LSP bring traceroute RFC and the other question was also like what how do we encode the type I\u0027m not sure if this is a problem here I just got this from our engineers if the type of 30 1744 actually makes sense I don\u0027t think so and so it seems also the type encoding is maybe sometimes questionable and of course in general what makes our life as an interoperability lab always a little more complex is if there are many many options in the standard and especially the protocols which were encoded somehow correctly you know is having OSPF and is is and the different protocol options that makes it more difficult for the vendors to come up with exists and implementations for all of the different aspects so one of the vendors actually had something hard-coded like oh let me always use one equals OSPF and if we use ISS for the transport well I don\u0027t even look at this it\u0027s you know a whole lot of encoding and dependencies in the code and so in the end that\u0027s why entire reality didn\u0027t work in this small case or I\u0027d like to bring it to your attention maybe to review some aspects of the LSB ping standard and also with regards to the yang models that were discussed just before me we love young models we love standardized yang models even more because most people just have their own proprietary runs today but when you standardize yang models please you know don\u0027t just make them a a collection of proprietary yang models just put into a big pot and stirred around because this is really making life very difficult and please use the complexity to a level that the majority of vendors out there can understand and even today there are still new vendors coming into this joining this game and implementing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:14",
    "text": "things for the first time so I don\u0027t want to name anybody but we had a vendor from Taiwan white box vendor this time also another Asian vendor who we just came into this game from China and they\u0027re very enthusiastic they are implementing SR b6 and they\u0027re sometimes ahead of even the largest Western vendors but they struggle a lot understanding the contents of our C\u0027s because some of them require a lot of you know reference reading across reading and options selection so that\u0027s just a very quick report we\u0027ll have much more details published on April 10th so I mentioned the URL here where we have published a full report is free of charge is open and we covered a number of other working groups groups specifically spring and PCE but I\u0027m not reporting reporting to any of those here this week we\u0027ll just subsequently make comments through the main areas any question Sam Waldron a quick question do you have the test cases available for us to review closer to more exactly what district yeah the detailed test plan is not public that\u0027s 160 page document which we don\u0027t want to publish what we do publish the test cases to a level of detail that makes our problems and issues reproducible in the report so that will be public back with him sounds good an additional question like how much of the label stack that we actually tested for and how we also test it for edgy censuses and have you tested for the label stack depth how far you can actually test it for in sense like how much of the label stack depth the vendor devices are actually supporting and the second thing is for the hsn.c suits and those kind of scenarios have you tested those as well well a second sorry I just since he said oh I see so we haven\u0027t tested for the label depths because that would have been like a more advanced in our anyway as you see we struggled with the basics with SRV six we only had very few implementations actually supporting it successfully so a lot of our testing was actually in in the basic areas of signal routing SR v6 and we didn\u0027t get to the more advanced topics such as LS peeping over a SR v6 they plaid to do that yes absolutely sure and whenever the vendors are ready we\u0027re happy to do thank you Telecom I of course didn\u0027t read your paper I must admit that what was your starting point we also had a look into LS beeping and we are applying it in our network our take was to start with looking at what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:15",
    "text": "the robbers through when you started paying from them and then simply copy that our experience is quite good so we always have a zoo of implementations on one hand so that\u0027s different from hopefully most operator networks and secondly we try to focus on the latest drafts and developments so of course a ton of stuff in LS peeping is working very fine and very nicely but we have basically completed those tests some years ago so I think we\u0027ve tested a sleeping since how long six five six years I\u0027m not exactly sure but we\u0027ve tested it for some considerable time and now we focused most of our efforts on unciekin rotting okay thank you do you have Greg yeah put it up as if it\u0027s correct McGregor set yours okay hello again within away for a while now we\u0027ll bring this for update and discussion so we received some good comments from my cell appreciate it he agreed to be on wrong coworkers welcome for self and couple of comments examples here you can look at a div of their versions just reading in probably would serve no good purpose we confirm that the current model confirms two new our management database architecture and we updated security considerations based on according to yang security guidelines examples again are what\u0027s being interesting that found we found that now it\u0027s recommended that configuration examples will use ipv6 addresses rather ipv4 okay no problem and discussion continues there are a couple questions operational questions that if I sell raised and I welcome to look at his email I can copy to the mailing list just to highlight open questions or you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:16",
    "text": "can look them here in the presentation slides in your spare time whether to use diversity in the destination IP address of LSP being encapsulated in MPLS for [Music] exploring different tasks or use a source port number these are options then do we need a traceroute moon separate or the traceroute mode is just instantiation of incrementing TTL and TTL control is exposed in the model and the question is that we have new facts being defined since the last time I will work on this part of the model and the question whether we need to include all the current currently defined facts or it could be extensions that will be mounted to the model as new types being added and of course comments discussion questions and consider working group adoption okay I\u0027ll be more definite I\u0027ll first ask working groups to consider working group reduction call that\u0027s good morning everyone my pleasure children from Huawei I introduced a multi field and the RC bt extension for appear courses are off from Hawaii this page introduce some background appeared defending to RC wine for peer architecture and the wine needs for peer encapsulation in the peer architecture it is also allowed to wrap here on a train on a train and also a new draft the in there be a working group describe how can how can the tree-based appear be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:23",
    "text": "used in a median and benefit and get some extra benefit also I\u0027m out of here and as with he the world owing to a building protocol so putting them together they are worst their war format he cast specific peppers so lacks the page this is the forwarding procedure and Pia encapsulation for g20 best appear when a packet with en calculation and the bitstream 0 1 0 1 it will be replicated from A through D and E and the path not to F so the the peon capitulation include peer label and yehuda the ple boy is also a patron P label it will change your hope I hope like normal PN P when folding rockets and the Peters dream inside of the package we are not changing hope I hope this it\u0027s a little difference from the normal fear of builder an AGP so this video the MLP extension to trade with well yeah where\u0027s some beer PA information the main part it\u0027s the is in the labor mapping message forwarding it mask is included in the lab imagine for example tea center to see the lip imagine it will include four Olympic mask 0 0 0 1 and seasoned to be with a bit Massacre 0 0 1 1 and Pearson to a bit mask of 0 1 1 1 this is the patron PPA LSP identifier I was to put this quickly and this is the Pieta way that created in the Liberty messages and this is the peer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:26",
    "text": "capability in the LTP a hollow object and the last is the VP extension to build a tree with the PA information the main information is carried in as through our information for example when he sent the resv message as a response to as asked well as to al-madiq request message it will include PF RIT Val of value 1 and if if F Center as we here resv message it will include a variety of value true this is the P 2 and possession object some extra felt it included this is the past message and this is the reserve reserve messages the post the post reports had asked to LPS RSP object and the object is necklace in this object PF RIT is included so that\u0027s the introduction of the true protocol extension and next up I will add some capability and era handle to the ass VP are weaved he loved the emotive he trapped ordinate of such a handy description also I\u0027d like to get some feedbacks also discuss army enlisted it is preferred that\u0027s what thank you any questions [Music] dark satrom Cisco did you consider make before great for rsvp-te and pranic pruning and grafting of sub LS fees how do you handle those cases like addition and removal is it in your craft honestly I\u0027m sorry I patent yo speakers Lonnie okay let me repeat again did you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:26",
    "text": "consider the case of Nick before break for our cpt point-to-multipoint LSPs the optimization case or the global reauthorization and the second part is the pruning and grafting of sub LS B\u0027s was that audible for the first question I think so the first one you the makeup you for per week under the second procedure so now that is the beginning of this draft here so the procedure will be refined in the later version yeah but now that you first to define some objects but I agree with you and these are the most important procedure for the people on here rsvp-te and I amount appear yeah we will refine this in the procedure section okay thanks thanks Robin looking forward to that so I also have an observation when we get the draft that says in the draft name MPLS RSVP beer that actually make it possible that it could be one of free working groups so Pavan was here before you here yeah are there anyone from beer here now okay so Pavan assuming that we jump to the point where we actually decided that to do this do you think this belonging mpls or tease close to the mic yeah at this point there isn\u0027t sufficient material in the document to take any concrete call on us but eventually the if they\u0027re going to talk about the signalling extensions we should start in peace but at this boundary we don\u0027t there isn\u0027t really much material in the draft to make any concrete columns so I take what you say is that there is a need for a coordination between the tree shares for every working group so I would take as an action item to send that mail to both teas and beer and MPLS share and we can take it from there my feeling yes now is that currently I would like to progress it here and they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:26",
    "text": "actually read it is you little bit later sure yeah okay the questions oh okay thank you and that\u0027s what\u0027s his name oh yeah ma - sure so if I understand correctly you have about 50 minutes to go yeah actually we\u0027ve been pretty efficient today I don\u0027t know it was the free extra minutes that Tariq put in between each presentation but we will finish early I guess all right okay so I\u0027m gonna talk about proposals to essentially take all right okay so let me back up and provide a little bit of context to what we are trying to propose this is specifically to indicate fault or do poor coordination for non corroded MPLS Tbls base the idea being that for low we say low power but actually it\u0027s low compute power systems where bandwidth on the CPU is a challenge and we want to do this fault coordination at a high scale and further adding to that requirement is that we want to try to do with the minimum number of protocols I if possible use the same single protocol to do that call coordination so with that if I was to take a look at this operational diagram if there is a fault between LS r1 and LSI to that fault indication is sent down stream to its le RB typically at that point it\u0027s some other or add some other process that is used to inform the fault upstream if assuming that there is no other protocol running what we are proposing is to ride on that a is message that has reached earlier B and let me finish and with an additional bit indicate the fault and send that a iced message upstream towards la RA where earlier aid if it chooses to them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:28",
    "text": "can coordinate failover to a backup LSP to do that we are posing a change to our FC 64:27 feel one of the fields to add what is currently a reserve bit and and we call it the RDI but which essentially says that this is an RDF remote detection indication flag that it\u0027s coming from a downstream L earlier and that the downstream earlier has received a fault indication okay can we go back I think that your assumption or the scenario that you\u0027re considering is not using correctly functionality of our medication signal walk so if you want to inform their upper layer of your mag then you need to have a lesser one reporting to lar what a the same so then you don\u0027t need to do anything from earlier be to LR a so you have to have a symmetrical use of alarm indication signal lock so I think I said this may be okay because otherwise I\u0027m talking about an Associated cutout it yeah in the case and I think we point it out in the draft that for a core outed LSP yes no it\u0027s not for carotid OSP it\u0027s just basically your need to use it symmetrically you cannot say I use it on one end and I\u0027m not using on another end because then you have a fractured system your state yes I agree then basically you have one leg or am you\u0027re standing on one leg on ARB you need to stand on both legs you need to inform earlier a as well through the same exactly already available means so if I understand it correctly what you\u0027re saying is that we have to have our end session running in both directions right that\u0027s that\u0027s your statement is in China okay first of all between LSR one in osr2 if you\u0027re using Proactiv failure detection more actually it\u0027s BFD right so it\u0027s bi-directional by itself already so both ends will know that the failure being detected so you\u0027re have all information on LS are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:29",
    "text": "one in the same way you have on the ORS are two and LS are one ought to report it if you want to report to inform your upper level that there is a failure in a server layer so you want to tell to the client that server failed don\u0027t be alarmed when you detect because why are you using s because you may be running some failure detection in a client layer and you know that your server failed you just want to say okay don\u0027t be alarmed I know there is a problem when you detect it don\u0027t bother okay so you need to do it on both ends so the scenario that you\u0027re considering everything will work if our star one tells our cell they are a hey there is a problem and LSR one is absolutely capable of doing it because you\u0027re using PFD well okay I\u0027m talking about a forward LSP LSR one is not able to inform why so this is you this is why is not capable actual okay let me answer that so this is an in band fault notification scheme so you have unidirectional LSP hang on a second you have a unidirectional LSP going from earlier a to a layer B and you could have been associated bi-directional going other direction right so in the failure of a forward direction LSP you are now in band sending a signal to the tail and le RB which is then sending the RDI to the head end that that this is the this is the scheme yeah that is a similar where\u0027s Mina this is nothing new this is all the time this a is our di is in 1731 and all that stuff okay that this is just bringing that to MPLS LSP so it works this is not for co routed bi-directional as it said there are these four associated bi-directional and you are you you have a unidirectional failure right but you can do it our medication signal out of band no but this is in bed okay this scheme works we have implemented and it works fine right so that\u0027s the other key is that this simply we have actually implemented this and it works at scale and performance for platforms that do support it you know for the platforms that do not recognize of course they can they will probably not see the idea of it but they will still see the Albert and will know that the fault has occurred yeah but the problem is that remote defect indication you\u0027re changing their content because effectively for la RAL are be there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:33",
    "text": "nothing wrong with this LSP okay and remove the fact in the indication is for the particular so basically you are doing alarm indication signal you need to change something in terminology that no this is associated bidirectional LSP that are forward and reversal ESPYs are not congruent and this is the way to handle the fault on the unidirectional failure this it\u0027s as simple as that okay then what happens if your LR a receives our di from B of D because that will be the real our di yes you sent a couple of comments to the Middle East it\u0027s not very clear to me exactly the scenario because you may mention about PFD and limited CPU power but in that main least you were speaking about 100 LSP and you can run PFD at one packet per second or so will be your solution generator receiver 100 PFD packets every second is this going to be a big issue and then your failure will be at one second interval in that particular case if your if you can choose to remember we are talking about okay system is a really low end system okay yeah that you allowed let me just finish that in context right yeah let me provide the context this is a system something like a 500 megahertz CPU and at best it can support 32 PFD sessions at 10 milliseconds on that system and LSP is that number into at least a few hundred of thousands there\u0027s no way for us to run a beardy session for every a list okay that\u0027s fine it\u0027s right I was speaking about PFD 8:1 per microsecond one packet per second yeah that\u0027s about a senior Lindy idea if you to do failover a coordination and as measured by also by hope the we have the PSC protocol which has exactly the same logic as the one you are proposing so as soon as you\u0027re back you get the failure your sensory packets and in addition supports it\u0027s a little bit more complex as they machine because it\u0027s not all if reporting failures or is also reporting operators command so which that\u0027s right that\u0027s the point is do we really don\u0027t have requirements to have not support operators commands because the user single protocol means that that in the long term you are going we are going to reinvent a PSC into FM if you have an operator\u0027s requirement operators common requirement type so only thing is that you don\u0027t need in this particular case to run another protocol you can use the existing message but the question is is if the operators needs operators commands are we going to stand FM to replicate to put all the PSC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:34",
    "text": "functionality into FM so again you know we\u0027re not advocating this for every router first for this is especially true for low-end routers so yeah this is a module again the you need a fault hierarchies right we you you can\u0027t run in band F BFT at 3.3 or 10 milliseconds for every LSPs right so by doing this you can scale well where you are detecting the failure at the break and you know you are passing on the ideas question is why do you use FM instead of PSC to do the coordination okay let me rephrase the question is intended track for this proposal experimental or standard we have actually implemented it you have and it works okay then why not keep it experimental because again as at our pointed out there is already standard based mechanism to address this scenario again depends yeah if you if you\u0027re talking about a million-dollar out absolutely you can put any number of protocol happen the problem is if it becomes a standard then we have two mechanisms that can compete if used on equipment and what is the problem with that I mean if if this race condition the problem is the race condition yeah so okay so simple advice don\u0027t run both the protocols no please if you have it in both layers then implementers get very very upset exert that that they could get you know true here and faults there and they\u0027re not sure what to do and just telling them we can pour it together did you cut it yeah so III think that experimental track would be reasonable I don\u0027t know if you can ask for a separate flag in an experimental track drop I mean we are asking basically this one is asking only for extension to the flag right then only LNR defined and we there\u0027s a new definition for that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:35",
    "text": "result bit that becomes our DNA but there is certain behavior associated with the RDA and flag values right and their document defines it and that creates confusion because it collides with a special ESC I think we should maybe have a more discussion I don\u0027t think we have concluded here yet that\u0027s a word Groupon you\u0027ll see in the other chairs in Montreal but I may be in the shadows somewhere but I\u0027m dr. Becher you meet a jogger but I do in me tackle no no I mean in in Montreal will you be in me tackle most likely okay thanks okay so that\u0027s it see you can spend the time I need one more Russia "
  }
]