[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "foreign okay I I have the top of the hour here I don't know about anybody else um let me do a quick check first for a note taker as we've done in the past um pretty straightforward for us the agenda's already in the notepad thing we just need some help from one or more people to just put some actions in there so we got at least one hand out there from Wicklow home but please anybody uh even remote participants you know just track in there and uh as we pass through things just capture uh whatever actions came out of it um I think uh in today's world given that we do recordings and you have the agenda there I don't know that we have to have detailed summary minutes um at least not for us and our discussions as a rule but capturing the actions and any results is is kind of important so a quick bullet about those things would be helpful all right so let's um get started I am Jim Galvin we have Antoine Boucher in here um it's been a long time so if you had the two of us sitting at the table together so uh you know yay for the working group I suppose or not depending on how you feel about things um but uh yeah registration protocols extensions we have an hour today and uh a very full agenda or perhaps we'll end a little early because I think one of the discussions we gave a lot of time to um actually is gonna might work out pretty well so let's uh jump in here by now this is Thursday night last session of the week of uh Thursday the full days uh you all know the note well you've seen it many times before uh please remember you know your contributions are are public and and part of uh the ITF uh as we uh go through this and of course our code of conduct always a good reminder to people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "to please be respectful and focus on the substance and the issues and and not each other um that's always a good reminder for us and so uh and of course in these covet times masks are required unless you are actually standing at the mic uh and or actively eating or drinking um so please uh do uh remember to uh keep your mask on okay this is our agenda for today a quick opportunity for anyone to offer up any agenda bashing um it's pretty pro forma um this is our standard agenda that we do here and the last three items are just uh some presentations that we called out because they got some time allotment but the other uh first half of this are just our standard gen items we'll just walk through things quickly and not seeing any hands so I'm just going to keep right on going here and into our welcome and introductions and uh we've already done the note well and the note scribe so just some quick notes about document management and uh Antoine you were going to say some few words about this yes so this is the part where we usually uh say how we are doing our work in this working group and as you know we have we've for some time now ask for document Shepherds when we adopt a document in this in this working group um and that works actually quite well we're very pleased with that um especially because we always imagine that not to be too much work and it also gives the opportunity for newcomers in the uh in in the ITF to understand the process um but for this time I've I've put up the process of how a document is published a little bit because what we saw well over the over the past not recent time but but for a longer time uh that um when we adopt a working group graph and that's a formal process then we have iterations of the document and then a document moves into working group last call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "um and the intention is that a document that moves into working Google Plus call is a stable document because we are a small working group we also notice that sometimes the document didn't get very very many reactions during the discussion in the working group so a document is moved into working group class called quite quite I wouldn't say fast but we don't have too much uh stringent rules about it but something that is very important is that when we want to have the process for a document Shepherd to be tracking changes during working group last call um we want that process to be easy so we've seen recently that during working Global school people start reviewing the document and the number of iterations take place so that there are multiple documents that the document sheper needs to review during working on Glasgow because Alters publish a new version of the of a document during working group let's call it the minute that they um agree that there is still an issue with the document um I would ask people not to do that to make documents stable uh we as chairs have decided that we're going to call outs working Google Plus call for a specific document and number and there are a number of tools that authors can use during working group last call to track issues um we that some people use GitHub there is an issue tracker you can use a Wiki page but please publish a new version of the document after working group law school changes because that will give the opportunity to you know in experience audience document Shepherds to track the changes and and make sure that the program the the the the process um works out uh quite well so that's just a request from us you know be sure that when you uh ask for a working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "last call uh that the document is stable and try not to publish a new version of the document until all your issues are clear during the working group last call and and that's basically my question [Music] okay any questions or comments not seeing any hands or things in the chat room so let's move along here uh let's move to published documents um sadly none this time we had a few that we mentioned last time but that's because we were catching up on quite some distance but I think we're gonna we're gonna move along a few documents for next time so moving right along uh we do have um documents in uh uh working group last call um actually uh so the reverse search and uh the uh Federated uh open ID um to spend a little bit of discussion on the mailing list so uh we'll uh you know deal with those on on the list and um I think the Federated uh eye open ID is probably going to come back to the working group last call there was a side meeting uh yesterday day before um where a few people got together and uh raised kind of a an important technical question uh which um I believe is is well is material enough that it's going to suggest bringing the document back to the working group to take a look at those changes before we press this thing forward so just look out for that on the mailing list so that we can you know formally do what we need to do there um and I believe the reverse search is is headed to closure right so so that was one of the documents where there were multiple versions of the document and you know the the another issue that it brings but it's just more for us as chairs is that it's it becomes very hard to claim consensus uh until after a document Shepard has told us that all the issues were resolved so we're still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "waiting for that uh there was still one issue that had to be uh called out on the mailing list uh and that was a week before uh before the meeting and so apologies that we didn't react to that immediately but um after the meet after this meeting we will uh we will close it and and move forward with that okay I'm going to keep plowing through here and thus somebody wants to jump up and get in the queue here to speak uh moving right along we'll get to status of existing work and uh chairs here are just going to ZIP down through these uh the simple registration reporting uh and the uh JS contact and the redacted Fields documents are all imminently ready for working group last call now we we have established for ourselves a bit of a process where we only do documents one at a time in last call we did do a little bit of overlap on those other two which is why there's two out there at once we had expected the one to close and so we opened up the second one and then there was a bit of delay in all of that um but on for the benefit of our group we just are recognizing we don't have that many active people here and so even though these documents all have been uh suggested that they're ready to go to the last call we're just going to issue them one at a time here serially so that we don't burden everybody with having to read them all all at once and given these other two that have a couple of uh I think they they might turn out to be straightforward changes so we might wait to issue the next working group last call till those come back we see what we're going to do with them and if we can get them right back into working group last call to move along I think we'll do that um unless anybody would like to do something different I mean this is just the process we've been following and we're telling you so if anybody wants to uh jump one of these first three in the uh queue here in terms of when they go to last call uh you know please do feel free to let us know say something on the mailing list really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "um and uh Jim Gould is saying oh reporting ready for work and good last call uh fair enough Jim Gould on the simple registration reporting um you're right uh I may not have actually said that on the list um but uh I know that um uh Antoine and I have talked about it but let's go to the queue here on a couple of things uh before I talk about data dictionary so Jim go ahead please Jim Gould can you hear me yes we can go ahead good good yeah uh there are some open items with the super registration recording draft um that were discussed on the list I mean specifically around splitting the draft I had the framework uh defined in a separate standards track graph and then have the actual concrete reports uh in a informational draft that was what was discussed thank you okay thank you for that uh I'll make sure to uh go back and and check that so uh we'll take care of that thank you uh Rick Wilhelm next thanks Jim um Rick Wilhelm PIR uh this is really a a quick comment related to the redacted fields and rdap responses as Jim knows because he's involved with me in another front um that's one that over in land of of icann there's some policy work that is right now leaning on the um on the ID and so it would be it would be good if that could turn into an RFC so from the technical community that that becomes stable more quickly rather than later uh so that would so as we look to see which one of these is going to kind of line up next there's a an auxiliary benefit of moving that one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "ahead but that's something you're aware of Jim but just for the broader group thank you so thank you for that um yes I'm glad that you brought that up so um you know that that's just sort of a suggestion to the uh chairs that um we I'm taking that as a suggestion to the chairs that we try to move that one along uh ahead of anything else as quickly as we can choose that for the next one to go to working group last call so let me ask on behalf of Antoine and I if anyone um has a different point of view about that uh to please um let us know uh say something on the list or uh come here and speak up and uh Jim Gould I see you in the Q next please go ahead yeah and relate can you hear me yes go ahead please yeah in relation to the uh regret redacted uh draft uh there is that uh normative reference dependency to the Json path base draft uh we reached out to the editors for that draft and the Milestone set for this month uh and they confirmed that that was accurate uh we have provided review feedback to that draft to hopefully move it along uh really the work is done with the redacted draft so I guess the question for the chairs is whether or not we can go to working in class call in parallel with this uh normative dependency so I just want to put that question out there yeah so the answer to that should be yes unless we are expecting something material to happen in the other normative reference that would impact our document then we might want to be concerned but as I understand it the other normative reference is fairly stable the JS contact has a similar down reference at the moment but um you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "know we can submit these to the isg for publication and they will then get their review and then they'll be tagged for to be held while we wait for the other document to catch up since it can't be published with a normative uh you know down reference so we should be okay moving that forward [Music] okay good I uh good so we'll go ahead and put a request on the list is that uh The Next Step then yes please please do do that that would be perfect great thank you okay uh Mark every hand uh go ahead please um to me redacted and just contacts should be the most the highest priorities especially because she has contact you know it would be a long process to get all the implementation you know and then get rid of G cards so the more we wait so redacted and GS contact in my book would be that the most prior okay thank you appreciate that um and uh as I said before anyone else who wants to make a comment about priority order of these documents uh please do let us know and and speak up okay uh the registration data dictionary uh is is just there they haven't requested last call um I understand from talking to the authors that they're getting ready to uh they consider themselves um almost ready like really close to asking for our uh working group last call so I just want to put that on your radar to be watching for that and that'll just end up being on our list here and we'll move through the documents uh one at a time as we said unless anybody wants to suggest something different okay uh not seeing it oh do you want to speak"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "go ahead yeah just for my sense of the room who has read or contributed to the data dictionary document okay read the document please and for the remote participants we had two people in the room raise their hand um and we've got a room of about 20 people here not quite um so uh go ahead Rick so uh Rick will help here I've I've read it and commented extensively about how much I don't like it so I'm not sure if that qualifies Antoine I want to get some sense of how many people are actually you know participating in the process so yes good to know thank you um we do have a an unfortunate reality in our group of uh silences no objection and tends to be supportive so it's good it's especially important um you know if you have concerns questions issues to make sure those get on the list so that we can take that into account um so uh please uh please do make sure to do that okay um with that we will jump into a bit of substantive work that we have here we are about 10 minutes behind schedule at the moment but we're hoping we can make some of that up and with that let me turn this over to everyone yes and uh so the next our next topic is going to be about a document that had quite some discussion during the IDF working group plans to order for the ietf last call um and uh a lot of work and a lot of discussion has been taking place there and um some of the work may be material and that's why we want to well bring it up here for uh for discussion I want to give some uh some people not usually in this working group some some time to discuss this document with us it's the international use of internationalized"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "email addresses document and James Gould has made some slides on the um the results of the the ITF right last call so uh Jim do you want to do your slides and talk about what the results were or what you think the results were yeah there is oh yes can you hear me all right yeah okay good thank you very much for being true on this yeah um there was uh plenty of discussion at the ITF Last Call on this draft and uh really there's one remaining open item that uh we really want to discuss here with the working group you can go ahead and click the next slide please so a little bit of background uh the draft version 10 entered ietf Last Call on May 27th lots of discussion lots of feedback um and we made updates based on that feedback specifically we removed the definition of a functional extension and changed the graph to be a command response extension the last version is uh version 16. so the one remaining issue is associated with the email cardinality and I cover on the next slide examples of the cardinality um actually go back to the prior slide I'm sorry I'm sorry I want to get the specific feedback so the specific feedback was if a non-ascii email address is to be supportive there should be provision for an all ASCII alternative to be provided so having an alternative email changes the cardinality of the number of email addresses that are passed but the end goal here is that we want to be able to support the SMTP TFA addresses and EBP and existing extensions and going forward so you can go to next slide so here is a list of Epp specifications"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "um that have email addresses in them now there are more I'm sure but these are the ones that I were aware of so the contact mapping has a single required email uh the mark and side Mark mapping is not an extension but it's used by extensions it actually has a required holder issuer email and a optional contact email this provides a little bit of complexity associated with creating an extension of that particular spec because you can't really identify which email is being extended but good news here is that's not an Epp extension uh the organization mapping the validate mapping have a single optional element and then the last two are proprietary uh extensions uh that have a single uh required on it so in summary on this we have a mix of extensions that have either zero or one emails or one uh email so go to next slide please so there are three approaches uh the first is the status quo which is the to keep with the cardinality in one or at most one um and leave it up to the server policy related to allowing for the use of SMTP utf-8 addresses in place of the ASCII addresses this is what's currently in the draft right now um and then this next option is to change the cardinality to a one or two this means that there would be support for an alternate email element um but that would require one email element to be provided when an alternate is used uh the alternate email element would be used during a transition period which would be defined by server policies so it's not predefined in the draft it would be up to a the server to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "determine when it's the right time to uh to require the use of an alternate email uh and then finally the the last one is changing to a list um and this would be where uh the extension would provide for a list of emails and there may be uh support for types in that scenario go to the next slide please our recommendation is to go with the second option uh which is the change cardinality to a one or two uh in the draft to provide a guidance related to the transition period this would mean extending the create command the update command and the info response to support the use of an alternate email element this will provide the ability to set an unset uh the alternate email as well as getting an indication of whether or not it's been set or it's not set with this recommendation it would follow the consensus of the working group related to be able support uh either an ASCII or SMTP utf-8 email value and I believe it will address the ietf last call feedback associated with being able to support alternate email at least in this case during a transition period next slide please there you go so in conclusion uh we're looking for feedback from the working group related to what is the best option uh to move this draft forward and then I'll just leave it open for a discussion okay thank you very much Jim um yeah I wanted to say John cleansing is in the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um so John go ahead and give your answers to some questions okay having been the one who raised this set of issues um I think the recommendation is the correct one I think from a semantic standpoint talking about this in terms of cardinality is the wrong thing to do but that may be just a vocabulary question um uh the key here is an operationally uh SMTP utf-a addresses not asking addresses are are not universally usable they're much more usable in their own context um and and countries and languages but if they there's any reasonable possibility that they could need to be accessible internationally their uh there needs to be provisioned for a not asking address whether that provision is sometimes always usually usually not used as a policy matter probably beyond the scope of the specification but there needs to be a way to provide that information at the point you start talking about more than two addresses uh you're talking about a mailing list for the equivalent and not about this um why not ask the address and one asking address so I think the recommendation is correct uh it may be that we need to tune the text it describes it a little bit further or not I just have not had time since that draft was posted to do a really careful review automatically okay thank you John um I have a question though but I think Dimitri was first in the queue then I'll put myself in the queue so go ahead Dimitri you first okay hello uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "yes great so oh I agree that uh as a temporary specification uh providing a backup ASCII address is the best proposal solution and I thought I totally agree with uh John uh that uh [Music] address are not widely not used nowadays but uh I want to say that uh ice personalize his life contradiction between uh uh the movement to make SMTP 8 uh addresses uh Universal accepted in particular bacon where the Epp protocol is completely relevant and the idea to support it with the backup asking only email address because well it means that uh we don't consider uh SMTP UTF addresses uh first class email addresses it's it looks sort of wrong but of course yes uh I agree I totally agree that for now it's a realistic fiction thank you foreign I'm just watching the chatter and jabber about the difference between what we're the way this working group seems to be using the term EAA or was and SMTP utf-a and Pete just made an interesting summary which is one is an email protocol and one is just an email address and maybe that clears up some of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "my confusion about it I don't know if that's helpful here so he I was going to get it done to say this at the mic then he said it in the jabber so I'm not sure I have anything new to say do you wanna sure okay okay so then we go to Victor in the queue go ahead Victor uh I also agree with the uh recommended choice but with the additional comment that I think the so-called transitional period is basically forever uh I don't think the alternate address the need for alternate addresses is likely to go away in my lifetime Lifetime and in part because uh uh different communities will have different needs and you know if I want to mail somebody in the script I can't recognize I always pick the alternate address because I know what I'm looking at okay thank you Victor and next Pizza on the mic yeah this Pete Resnick uh just to sort of explain what I mentioned in the chat room I think thinking about this in terms of cardinality of email addresses that you have multiple email addresses is the wrong way to think about this what you're saying is these servers these Services support a second email protocol SMTP utf-8 instead of SMTP and to support that protocol you need a piece of data which is the the eai address the non-ascii address the thing that goes into SMTP utf-8 that is different than if you're just supporting SMTP and so what you're doing when you communicate this extension to the other side is you're saying I support the sending over the SMTP utf-8 protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "and so any messages I'm going to send are going over that protocol and they're going to use this other address or they could use the email address that's also valid but I mean it's just a different way of thinking about it either way I support the idea that what you're doing is you're adding another field this International email address and uh or this non-aski email address and you use it in circumstances where the extension is available Jim so thank you uh Jim Galvin no hats I think we probably need to at this point it sounds like we we definitely have to pull this back to the working group for a bit more discussion on the mailing list because now I have the following questions that come up in my mind I like the distinction that Pete is making and I get it you know between protocol versus email address but I'm worried that we there's a lot more discussion that we have to have there's a lot more text that we have to have in our document to sort of play that out in the right way what we're after here um I'm concerned that uh someone will use the uh utf-8 field to uh push up and and ask the address and they'll stick that in the in the non-ascii field which would be valid because a naski address is utf-8 um and the discussion that we're going to have to explain in this technical document so that policies on the other side can do the right thing is whether or not that is actually a utf-8 address or if it is just a ASCII address we're going to lose that particular bit of signal right because what we're trying to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "here in the transition step is distinguish between those email systems that only support ASCII addresses versus non-ascii and um the policies have to be able to support that so that uh in the registration systems right I can I can make the right choice when I'm trying to send something um I am I making this clear I I just have this picture in my head so the other thing that occurs to me is the second thing that I think I'm hearing anyway in all of this discussion is concerned about which one is the priority so which is the one that you put in the optional extra element so if I want to put an ASCII only address in the optional extra element because I like that model uh so we could go with the original way that this draft was written you're going to signal uh in the Epp transaction that you're that you understand and can accept utf-8 addresses but there's nothing that prevents a registrar from just sticking a asking only address in that field which would be fine but what you really want is you need the extra signal that down the road when somebody retrieves this address they know that they can still use it in an ASCII only email system otherwise you don't want them to think that they have to reject it because it's a non it's in a non-ascii email address element so we always have to make that so there's a lot of discussion to be had there I think about how to really represent this and how much we want to say and and what the right order is um and how it has to be used I think that's where I'm going with this so yeah in the end I'm thinking that we're going to have to take this back and and walk through some more of these issues in the uh uh Discussion Group so thanks okay thank you Jim um I put myself off out of the queue because I wanted to make some some final questions but if there's any response to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to Jim's um story then go ahead uh John your next if you have a reaction on that Kim I think this is really really small though I agree with you that Denise come back from work text if you think about this as a preferred not ASCII address and an ASCII address fallback which is the vocabulary I've been using since this discussion started or you think about this in Pete's language about two different protocols but with a preference for the not asking address you wouldn't be specifying it then talking about this gets rather easy if you start talking about as a list of addresses using cardinality language then you have to start making distinctions about which of the addresses on that list are more important than others in what circumstances and it's just a list and that's why I've been objecting to cardinality language in the beginning but it's really up to the working groups whether from my point of view it's really up the working group as to whether you want to make this hard or easy and what Pete is suggesting and what I've been suggesting looks to me like the easy version and the cardinality discussion even if it's limited to two uh one or two uh looks like the hard way to do it because it involves all the issues that you just raised yes okay thank you uh Pete you're up next should have gotten an earlier start this is Pete um so I just said in the chat room what I think you should say protocol wise is that if you implement SMTP utf-8 the the if you implement this extension then you always use what's in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "field right you always use that address sometimes that address might be identical to that other field which is the ASCII email address they could be in exactly identical but you always use the one if you're going to use the SMTP utf-8 extension that's in the internationalized email address field if you're using the at if you're using plain SMTP you're not implementing the extension or the other side hasn't implemented the extension then you fail back then you use the ASCII email address does that make sense and the ASCII one must always be said because you might have to fail back to the old and you know it would go so you're saying you you always get both of them back yeah both if you implement the new stuff you've got two fields and they most both must be filled in don't care with what um the one that's the internationalized one might have um non-ascii characters but it might be entirely ASCII characters if you only implement the old stuff then you'll have one field and it will be the ask email address either way you've got to have all the fields filled in appropriately okay next one Dimitri thank you uh I won't just comment about the context of the contactability I agree that uh the email address is used for the contact but also we have a quite limited uh set of situation when um this address is can be used by a non-capable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "uh beer as as uh we we basically have uh three participants in the chain we have registered uh Who provided uh non-ask email address and is able to deal with it a register who registered that client and should uh either be able to deal with this address or reject the registration and the registry that normally should not uh contact uh with uh the registrant or using any address the situation becomes more difficult in several cases for example in case of uh domain transfer the accepting register until maybe not capable to deal with no mask address but well I think that it's mostly the problem of resistance business the other situation that is uh more difficult is uh the case of oh well uh registry termination or register termination when uh the the data is passed to uh to a new uh companies that maybe not uh capable to deal with no mask addresses but well speaking frankly I think uh this uh situation is quite rare thank you okay thank you Dimitri as you've seen with close queue we spent we we reserved quite some time for this discussion um but we still have two poor presentation so next for reaction John if you can keep it short yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "I will try first first first of all what I said in the chat about something else in the chat earlier is this transition period likely to be forever it's not just the technical problem it's a problem with language and with local mua implementations and with a bunch of other things and as long as the working group continues to think about European languages spaces between words and an absence of not breaking characters and a variety of other things this is easy and the point you start thinking about it other kinds of scripts very different inventions it suddenly gets hard and that's where it gets hung up and that's one of the alternate addresses like that you needed for a very long time and you know I I guess I just stopped there because I'm gonna end up repeating myself but again this is why uh why he's talking to this is need to be there and in addition why you need to think about less just what's happening in this particular transaction or what's happening in these addresses when they go into registry databases and who want to be able to access them afterwards whether voluntarily on the part of the registry side or involuntarily on the part of some right sub-regulator or legal side okay thank you John uh next up is Vienna Vera if you can keep it short as well do you have any more comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "I guess not so okay sorry I looked for the button on the wrong on the wrong place um we've had a need for alternative email addresses for already 25 years ago specifically when the email address ends in the domain name itself and once it is taken down then you cannot contact the uh the party so wouldn't that be good opportunities you just be totally liberal and say there's going to be an opportunity to put more than one email address and not care about distinctions whether this is UTF SMTP smtpdf8 or anything like that it's just an alternative email address it serves a purpose okay thank you um Jim if you're gonna go back two more slides and I'm gonna have some final questions or some some closing questions um because that's I think this is the one right um so the the question now is what are we going to do with this document this is basically a question tomorrow Murray because I think that uh James agreed that some of the changes to this document can be quite material so I don't know if we need to how the process works to get this document back into the working group to discuss these uh and I also saw that James said that you know the create command and the update command they all need to be extended so I I'm guessing that this needs some some more action to so what's the process here um I guess I'll take input from you about how big the Delta you think it would be if it's relatively easy to settle this um you can just leave it there and update it once and then we can continue it from there if you want to iterate it at several times I'll just return it to the working group and we'll do a an abbreviated last call the next time but you guys can like you're part of that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "decision I don't have to tell you one way or another okay so basically we need to discuss it on the mailing list and if we think that it's you know material and need some more work yeah let you know and does the working group think that they have a path forward from you like you know what edits you need to make or at least what things you need to go and discuss so um I would say that uh Jim Gould has already indicated he has a a revised document ready to go which is a starting point discussion we should certainly have him submit that get that published and then we have this little bit of nuance about when when we require both or not requireable so we'll have a little discussion we'll see what that turns into okay and then we'll make a decision about whether we need it back to us because it's material or we can just update it send it to you okay um I I don't want to sign John or anyone else up for work unnecessarily but I want to make sure that that they get those like it gets the right eyes on it so right so if you want need me to help coordinate additional external feedback please let me know okay thank you so we're just this all right it's close thank you all very much for the discussion and as said we will continue on the mailing list and uh James can publish a new version of the document to start that discussion and then we go over to a next presentation which is by Tom Harrison about our search [Music] all right thank you next slide yeah so there we are good uh so this is a fairly short document that defines some new search and search related functionality for IP ranges and asns the first part is sorry searching by handling by name for IPs and asns"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "along the same lines as for uh domains and entities in the existing documents there's a new link relation for getting the next most specific set of objects for one of the hierarchical object types and there's also a bit of text that incorporates reverse search and extends its application to IP ranges and asms so the idea here is that an RAR that implements this functionality in conjunction with some of the existing extensions can reach feature parity with the who is server and that helps with transitioning people offers and onto art app which is uh good for us and it also can help with potential deprecation of whose services in future next celebrity foreign just shows the requests and responses for the searches by handling name are pretty straightforward the only real difference here is that there are new uh search response types for the new objects so there hasn't been an IP search or not num search defined before so this document includes that content next slide please and this one shows how the link relation works so there's no structure defined for the for the link itself it's entirely up to the server uh and the response is the same as for a search for uh the relevant objects type slide please most of how this document works is very straightforward that really couldn't work in another way except perhaps for the link relation part so the reason we went with the link relation here it keeps the interface really simple uh there are fewer chances for things to go wrong for clients to misinterpret what they're getting back uh it means we don't have to Define behavior in error codes and so on so that was the first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "reason for that and then the second reason which falls out of the first reason is that because there's more flexibility on the server side uh it just gives the server options as to how to handle this so one server might do inbound searches uh another server might trade-off disk with CPU and pre-generate everything ahead of time uh so yeah just give us some more options in that respect next slide please so next steps we're looking to get this adopted it may be that that can't happen right now because there's a lot of stuff in train particularly in the art app space uh so you can put that on input on that would be good uh we need to get input from the various sub-regional Registries that do add up so there are some national Registries in the opening region and in the laknik region that do this so we need to talk to them uh the document defines an idap conformance value like like every extension but it doesn't actually use that as a prefix in the searches and the reason for that is it's would leave these searches kind of misaligned with how things are defined in the core documents uh you don't you'd end up with a search and a chord document like slash domains for for a domain search but uh if a prefix were used here then it would be slash rir search underscore IPS so it's a little bit clunky but uh the existing requirements in this space mean that we really should have a prefix there so we need to think about how this can be handled if at all uh and we did an implementation of this at opening pretty simple all seems to work as expected but more implementations uh would be good that's it thanks okay thank you Tom are there any questions for Tom I don't see anybody in the queue um yeah thank you Tom but you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um so your intent is to get this uh adopted um we will work for the world on the mailing list I presume and ask for uh for some more review okay so yeah so and you have a question go ahead uh yes so the more specific domain name is that about reverse DNS oh yeah that's just for the most in this so we probably should put some text in there just to say that it's not intended for use with uh with non-reverse domains um I suppose it could be used for normal domains but um yeah it might be better just to put that out all right and uh I I support the adoption of this of this work because I think it's it's needed so thank you okay thank you very much Tom then we have one final presentation I mark we're going into space hello uh adapt for space objects next next slide please so um so I've been involved with networking space and as you may know we're getting more and more networks in space and spacecrafts and all kind of stuff uh those objects in networks are actually owned by entities of locations of identity or network address um there might be there will be IP based networks as well as the other protocol that is more delayed and disruptive tolerant the dtn protocol is called bundle protocol um you know you could go to Sana which is um an entity created using the inm model but uh providing service for the space"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "standards Community mainly ccsds ioeg and ISO and others so um in the context of uh offering access an access protocol to those objects that are registered to owners um the requirements were essentially 99 in line with the requirements of rdap including rest API Downstream registries you know objects pointing to others and also uh things that are being discussed in the uh currently which is authenticated of oops authenticated access to some data some objects redacting some Fields all this stuff is exactly the same um and actually uh rdap space object server will eventually Also Serve rdap internet objects for example as I said there will be IP addresses that will be used in space and therefore the same rdap server may be also uh offering that information so the question is do we reinvent the wheel or we use airdap so the idea was to reuse our lab next slide um so the next slides are just examples um to show you you know what it could be um I actually used to create a prefix in the path for the queries just to not have any namespace Collision in the future but you know that's a detail next so um poor you know good or bad all objects have been identified using an object ID from the official ISO oid tree so any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "object for example these are actually you know real um you know objects number or object IDs that number the first one actually is the ID of the NASA Mars in a sense Arbiter spacecraft and the other one is uh the range of bundle protocol node numbers for NASA Goddard so you know these are real numbers next um yeah so that's another example of a query where similar to IP addresses now you're actually querying for node numbers um which is the uh as I said the bundle protocol way of addressing nodes um so that's an example of a range very similar to what we do with um IP addresses next slide given time Json responses uh since we started from scratch we preferred to use GS contact and two examples service site and aperture and these the current examples are actually not clean in terms of final because you know naming is actually dumped from the real database so you get it in that sense but as ND was pointing out on the mailing list you know these should be cleaning up property names next slide so this is again a real data of a service site in Norway with you know latitude longitude elevation you see pointing to other objects with their oid so you know this is something also that semantically we have in rdap"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "currently um you know next slide uh this is a aperture uh I don't know which one is this one so you also have as aperture is the deep space network of NASA the big you know antennas the three antennas that are as big as this this building um next slide so um before you start uh usually the usual question so this has been discussed a bit in within the space community and one of the question was uh transport are we doing are that uh queries over you know um a link you know through Mars or something yeah maybe maybe not but that doesn't matter the fact that you're querying for information about an object is doesn't mean that you need to do this in space um that we will need to do some finding automative servers um similarly uh as we do War for uh our adap current objects so there's you know ideas there for uh the oid bootstraps registry maybe others next slide and I think I'm done so um question to the group is this is very very similar um you know examples where uh presented any interest in regex I think it would be very viable to be here probably not the same you know lower priority than others given that space networks are deployed slowly that's it thank you very much Mark are there any questions from the audience before so you know we had a little hallway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "discussion already Mark about this and and you know the Epp and the uh art up protocol are supposed to work for any registry um with I think in our Charter it has one limitation and that it is for uh internet identifier objects um but anybody of course is free to use the provisioning protocol and the uh the data access protocol for any needs that they need so is your question basically would this be work you would like to be reviewed by the working group or do you want actually to have documents adopted um I think it is valuable that that regex at least review even better if we'd be adopted um but you know it's up to the working group obviously and I would punt that you said on the internet right the internet and the fire well I would find that space networking is actually just an extension of the internet and soon we should be the same yeah I was just mentioning it because it is in our Charter right so we're yes within the shelter yeah okay any more questions if not then thank you Mark and we're looking forward to having that discussion in uh on the mailing list and that brings us to our next and last item which is any other business is there any other business that people want to discuss if not then we have one minute left oh there's still there's one more question from Victor so we'll give him"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "the last minute yes um Gavin Brown is working on a proposal to add TTL data into requests from registrars to Registries I'll probably be putting my foot into that if people are interested in working on that and maybe have seen my presentations to oark and I can I encourage participation in thinking about how to uh make it safer to roll back uh changes that are regretted uh whether they're DNS like specifically or perhaps not even okay thank you Victor so if you have anything new to present you know send it to the list and uh if you get any positive feedback then ask for working group adoption that's the process that we usually take right okay thank you Victor and if there are no any other business then exactly on the hour this meeting is adjourned and thank you all and thank you to anybody who contributed to the minutes or not taking two thank you all right next time um yeah so we can get myself"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:03",
    "text": "I believe so if you're happy you know we'll take some time to have a bit of discussion on the list we'll see what the text looks like when we're done here and then we'll uh let you know yeah thank you all right um"
  }
]
