[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "and we are right. 1, 2, 3 testing. We can hear you Thank you. Okay. Well, my system's testing complete. Now we can start. So we have bus the hardware and welcome, everyone. This is the core session at IPF 117. I'm Mark Filockemike, which is both sending remotely are Simon Jimenez and Karsten Borman. We assume people present here especially in the interest of the explicit discussion to have read the documents in the agenda today, the goal is to do good use of our time especially to solve open issues. And then that will applies as per next slide. the blue sheet is connected automatically if even on-site, you log in to Miteka. So please do. Please help circulating the blue sheet with the QR code logging in to me take a the on-site participants. Thank you, Hank. Yeah. Yes. And we have tunotakers, Rick Card and Christian, thank you very much. helping anyone helping them It's much appreciated. And this is an officiality of meetings, so the node will applies. be familiar with that. If you are not already, it's not about IPR patents and so on. It's also in the especially about our couple of conduct. So please be nice and professional. with each other. Yeah. A few practicalities, of course, this meeting is recorded for the on-site participants. Again, please remember to sign in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "using the QR code on the screen or manually from a browser. for joining the queue please join the queue first on the app. and then go to the mic. for a remote participant, just user video if you are presenting or actively speaking. And you can ask, in case, through the question, just typing that in the chat, prepending it by mick, something like that. So the agenda for today us with the usual updates from the chairs, and then we have constant presenting the progress on the core count documents and on HRF. Martina present in the ISO were coop. and Christian with some updates following interim meetings, especially on attack some co op. recall presenting updates on kudos and also capital proxies finally, Christian has some updates on Copelbergat. and the on-site presenters should be only record and Martinez does anyone want to bash this agenda? have none. Let's start with the usual updates from the chair. We have one document in IETF last call started 2 days ago. core target at for which Karsten already addressed the a d review from wisdom. So it's proceeding well. We have a number of documents in in post working request called processing, actually. There were 2 versions of the group score document recently submitted addressing especially the shepher review from a Christian additional discussion points that came up following that up. So the authors believe that is now aligned with what request in the shepher"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "view, and it's, again, in the shepherd's hands. for the next steps. Coros Koredoc is waiting for Shepard up and actual Shepard review, and that's for for Karsten to take care of. Then this slide is about a core comp about which Karsen will talk more in the dedicated slots, and few of these slides are the agenda for today, we still have a seat on on version 20. for which you expect to have, anyway, a next working group plus call. and comma for which version was submitted recently and for which we also expect anytime soon. working request called, possibly in parallel with one for seed. Young libraries technically waiting for Shepard read up, but we just have to wait for the previous two documents to move forward and most likely a we get a new working group last call for that to And more, we have groupconvys for a while in post working group last call because we're still waiting for some expected auditorial comments. And for a follow-up on the comments from the working robust call if they have been appropriately addressed or not, and the share price is expected to be Kirsten. For conditional attributes, we know from build that planning to submit a new version. 7 anytime soon, after this meeting, we completed the working group last call. The next version to come should not address all the comments. As far as we know, there will be more work left to do. but it is expected already to indicate that the documents as discussed and confirmed on the list is switching from informational to Thunderstruck. And shepherd is already appointed to be a Jaime. And then we have a draft that was in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Custin? Yeah. I did just I would like to add that there has been some activity on the ISG side. Maybe Murray knows more about that. looking at the IPR issue this this draft is pretty interesting because it was split. at some point at its life, and it turns out that that the IPR stuck with one side, but when you look into the data trigger, then, of course, you'll still see VIPR on the other side. So I think there there will be some discussion of this by the IETF Council trying to find out what what we can do about the current situation. k. Yes. And thanks for checking about that custom. Okay. Then we have a which is also in the agenda for today, and it was in workinggrouppluscologyin yesterday. So we can consider that completed, the revision will be expecting it was mostly about positive feedback from Thomas on the list I provided a review at I think Christian also wanted to give some comments. I suppose they will come someone can be addressed as part of the plus call processing. Can you confirm that, Christian? Yes. Okay. Thank you. we'll see more about that later. in the slot. more documents. The was recently updated working of document. Oscar Killemeets that happen to be split out from the main kudos draft key update for Oscar. Now it's an informational document. on its own, got updated not in the agenda for today. After IETF 116, there was a document adopted performance measurement for COA"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "and the author's plan submission on version 1 in the next weeks. that was their plan. Then we have a document see for a while pending and working group adoption, especially formally, but since version 6 when that sort of trajectory was was talked about, there are no real changes. It was just transformations to keep the document alive. More documents updated individual submissions. 2 of these are in the agenda for today. that's oscorescapable proxies in top of our gut that we mentioned before. There were also updates on the cash flow loss score, mostly top to bottom editorial revision, and then Karsten Revive coreclar draft also in the interest of a discussion we plan to have about that topic later this week. at an informal side meeting. But we have more information about that. also later on Okay. Speaking of which, we have scheduled an informal, always discussion oriented site meeting for Core. This Friday, add the well, first session's lot, basically. Yeah. Also thinking of local time, but same time of today for core, just 90 minutes. For those of you here on-site, it's in Golden Gate 4. we'll try to use Miteshko. the room is scheduled already in case of any issue. I think we can quickly resort to something else, like, GThenson. The goal is to focus the discussion, especially on coop nontraditional responses for which we have a document that was discussed in a number of interesting recent interim meetings And it's mostly to understand better what trajector that can take all simulation with other documents or RFCs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "that are using had used that sort of concept. and time allowing, we plan also to get back to the CoreClar document mentioned before as the trajectory document can take should take for providing clarifications and corrections about coop. time allowing custom propose also something related locally significant to your eyes. I think also related to something that Christian recently introduced in copper over gout. but you can find some more information including this. In the entry, in the Wiki page for the side meetings of IPF 117 And last but not least, we also had a concern call on the list with no objection about resuming the current 3 meetings according to the usual currents alternating with a seaborne every other Wednesday. n on the odd weeks, same time as usual, so the European afternoon. So having heard an objection, the chest will proceed with booking interim meetings after the session or later this week anyway. see you there. We plan to resume on August 30. Okay. Are there any questions on comments on the working group at the high level. None. Then we can start with the first presentation, and we have one already 3 plus minutes. And cars, then the floor is yours."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "If you're talking, we cannot hear you, Kirsten, and you look like muted. That is actually true. I'm for once using the old interface again, the new interface is so great, but I don't know how to do the the document management in the interface. So sorry for being slow here. So the the first set of documents is is the Qualcomm set. We have 1 RFC in this space. We have one document that we sent to the ISG and and got back And we we are trying to react to improved understanding of Yang, in in this space, So the the remaining task is to to actually extract all the identifiers from a yang document. I'll talk about that in a minute. we have a working group last call passed in call Comey and probably want to do another one. we have a document that we probably would just revisage after all this all this delays. So let me quickly talk about car seat, So as I said, the the remaining item is to make sure that the example we have in this document actually lists all the data node identifiers that this example contains So we are going to to use the PGA tool that. We actually use that before, but we we find that it doesn't spit all the identifiers you want. And Lorraine is sitting in in the first row as somebody who who actually has hacked ping a little bit already. And my plan was to get people from Laurent's group to actually work with me and and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "fix this so we can use this, but that hasn't happened. So the the last throw was we were going to do do during the hackathon. But, again, I I didn't manage to get this going. So Eric, who is currently the the who who's currently the Responsible AD for this document even though it has been sent back to the working group. diagnosticize that we we probably will have Francesca back before we get this done. I I still hope peace falls, but the the probability that his food is increasing. So, you know, if I talk to you this week. I hope you have some some time to help me finishing this. So this is the cost document The other one is the Koma document. which really is the 1 the next one in line. but that actually did receive some attention and some some increased Ying know how. So when you're talking about getting a whole all these documents are are in in a big Abb is between the the core working group and the net mod Netcon management working groups. And, of course, all all the questions we had about working in a constrained environment, and so on those we we were able to process, but it takes a little bit longer to find onto us. to to the yang. issues, and that that's why I'm going mostly going to talk about yang issues even though these are really not the one that this working group should be. you're Anyway, what was missing from the document was an RPC example, So Yang has 2 different forms of remote invocation. There is something called remote procedure call or RPC."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "and there is something called action, which is really a remote method in vocation on a specific object while an RBC is something that that's the procedure independent of an object. And the document had an example, which was labeled as RPC example, but, really, it was an action And so I wrote an RPC example, and looked at the interaction, and it turned out it really really needed the identifiers that we don't get from Cosset at the moment. So I looked more closely and found out that These identifiers actually are redundant. So the the whole thing can be done without actually giving these identifiers. So rest concrete HTTP version of of what what Koma does. does send these identifiers. So they they are nested in the RPCR action, and then you get the actual data. but the Koma document now says just don't send them. And this means the COMA work can proceed without waiting for those. identifies And then unexpectedly, we got Ayanna early review, which pointed out that if you want to get in Jeng module rational storage as an IHTS module with Ayanna, you not only have to have have to register a UR in for the edge. but also module name. So which had friendly information I submitted dash 15, which is a new version just for this this Diana early review. And they they finally nay down the terminology, so I'm using now now the official terminology. and I use this for logistics."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "So this is all I did. I still have to check with my coworkers are we ready for for the final working class call that will allow us to ship this to the ISG. Again, So that that's really the the next step And for Corsit, the next step is that probably some 10 or 15 lines to be added to to being to get these others other identifiers out there. Questions? Questions? Bora says he wants to work on this. Very great. Okay. So let me go to Next slide. Next slide. which is the the ahref document. And just as a reminder, we called it Href because we couldn't decide how the things are going to be called. we finally called them CRIs, but the the name stuck. the document name stuck So I apologize for any confusion that comes with that. And the basic idea is to to build on what we did 10 years ago or a couple more than 10 years ago in COAP. we we normally don't send the actual URIs, over the wire, but we pass the UIs and send the raw information that is in the UIs over the y. But we do this in a a very core specific way So the observation was that all of our application protocols carry your eyes, and it would make sense to be able to send past your eyes in the application verticals as well."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "So we try to extract the data model that is behind your eyes, and that's an interesting undertaking. and came up with with a c ball representation of the data model, which which is called CIIs. And just as we have UI references with URLIs, which are relative your eyes, we have CLI references with CIs. So one problem we, I think, now have under control, is new rate identifiers for UI schemes. your schemes are character strings, And we had some ten UI schemes that had numbers, and we now have decided, let's just do numbers for all of them, So there is an appendix that has all the the current UIs queues and the number assigned to them. I just updated that a couple of hours ago, And so this is well understood. And, yeah, we we now have a current version that that has a lot of for little editorial things that went through working class call. which lasted until yesterday, and the the what we now have is we have an extensive review from Mako. which is great. The the processing is ongoing. There's one last item, we we have to nail down, and then we probably can can finish this PR number 75. And what Marco found was there was some confusion between the terms CRI and CRI reference. And I think the the office can can pretty guilty on that one because we we originally just called everything CRI whether it was an actual CRI or CI reference, and then we tried to this apart editorial, and we didn't quite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "succeed everywhere. There are lots of other editorial, Nits, that I don't want to list because I really want to focus on one remaining question which is the representation of empty paths in TRIs. And one one little problem that that Michael shown your light on here is that that the draft has some text that explains how is here. I reference and transfer Form. gets ingested data gets exported again to and the wire format. Right? We don't have a similar section for CIs themselves, and CI's benefit from being able to leave out parts of the the defined structure if they are not if they are absent, they're not necessary. So for for an absent path, which we have in in many situations. The not the least being the use of DNS, COB over DNS. being able to transfer a null saves a bite. So that that's not the world, but it's also not not completely irrelevant. And so the question is whether we we can we want to speak with a natural representation of 0 Parliament, which is nepter. Right? whether we want to to actually translate this into another and essentially remove it from the data structure before interchanging. it. And I think we had some discussions that that unearthed the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "preference for null, but that hasn't completely been reflected in the the recent changes to document. So I was hoping we can verify this today and and then make the change in one direction or the other direction, get it consistent. again. Again. Tomorrow, Yes. So but very inter very interesting issue. We have the same with Shik, if we want to sign a rule then we have to make the difference between an empty array on neural. So maybe we we can align on what you will select. Okay. Can you point us to the document that that has that? There's no There is no yet document, but it's something we will have to sign the rule, and so we need to have the very strict representation of the rule, and this is one ambiguity we we found. when -- Right. we serialize it So you you'd don't have a document yet yet you could point over that that has a representation of the rule Yes. But but we have some some time empty table, and so we we have to decide which way we go if it's empty table on yours. So think we will align on on your representation. Yeah. That would would be very good. Any other comments on this? Christian, No. I'm I'd raise my hand. I'm just in the in the in the list because I don't can't I can't get to the mute, unmute button fast enough with -- Oh, okay. -- taking no not taking. But do you have an opinion on this? nosed on one in particular because In in particular, the if if I remember correctly, the normalized form of a coop UI would have the would have a slash at the end anyway. And while co op doesn't make that difference,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "In CRIs, you can make that difference, and you will probably want to transfer the normalized version then makes the kind of would would make would would not make any difference anymore. for whether it's null or an empty rate. Hello? As an individual to answer the question, there's, like, definitely preference. for now in the interest of the illusion. also thinking of some comments around documents around in incorrect plan to use CRI as a replacement to a texturing your eye now and yeah, if we shave some some ways, it's just better. Okay. So Christian is not not against doing this, but points to possibly limited gains because the COBRA is normalized to having a slash. So you have 10 path element, which on the other hand in in Cueb is is defined to be identical, semantically to not having. a path element And, yeah, we we can shave off this page by not sending around these URLs and normalize 4, Okay. So I I take this as a definite maybe, But since I'm also a little bit in the shave the bite camp. I will implement this by by actually sending another in all these cases, and I need to find out how to actually, do this editorially because that information has a little bit distributed in the document."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Okay. So the plan is to actually submit a dash 14 after we have satisfied Marco that we have addressed his comments, of course, if there are any other late working group last call comments we will look at them. So you you haven't missed the bus here. If you missed the deadline yesterday, But please do send them quickly. we don't have to wait for the ATLAS score. fixing those. Good. Good. think I'm done. Thank you, Kirsten. Nothing else in the chat, but no one in the queue. Okay? we are very much ahead of time. is good. Just think yeah. I'm surprised. is good in case we need some discussion on some topics later. But the next is DNS Over Club. what year I'm Martin Lenders, and I Hello. like to talk about Dennis Overcrop. Yeah. For those, still not in the loop, we trying to provide encrypted name resolution for the IoT. And our solution there is to use DNS over code. Besides the encryptions communication, we then also have blockwise transfer to come pass MTO problems and also share system resources with a co op application, which gives us some resource advantages. So we Finally, are on the track to publish our evaluation of DNS overcorp."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "One I think the most interesting result of that is that with OSCO, you actually can save lot of memory, especially in in the room. And if you are interested in the full evaluation, It will be published at ACM Connex this year. there is also a preprint available on archive. Yeah. So how does does this draft relate to the DNS seabor draft I presented yesterday in seaborne. this draft in, as of a co op, provides a content format for the application gain is message. media type, which was introduced in the DNS serverhttps. RC. It is basically just a classic wire format put into a co op message and So this is easily transferable to other DNS transports. However, if you look at it In general, it's sometimes not small enough. even with the classic name compression you have in DNS messages, So we decided to provide a seabor based format, which, as I said, presented yesterday. it is more concise. by the first place using CBOR and also in omitting some of the redundant DNS fields, like, for example, most of the traffic is for a record request or a record request. in the IoT. So It is basically implied if you just get a name in the seaborne array, It's a question for an a record what a record? And it is more compressed by having an optional support for packed seabor. But we still like to use application DNS messages to have a fallback. First of all, it either if the application doesn't support this DNS placebo format or which might sometimes also be the case that the cbo format is actually larger than the wire format."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "Yeah. Since the last native we added some recommendation on that the root path should be used as a DNS resource path for the doc server. we rationalized why we did all the CTL rewriting, which gives us some caching advantages when we have in on route caches on the co op level. And we added an implementation status section where we added our implementations. And then we had an interim a few weeks ago where I basically presented most of the stuff already. But since then, we also clarifies the mapping between doc and doh. which is basically just to use the DMS 4 water and not try to use some coop to HTTP proxy to maybe get some advantages out of that. but that's basically just too complicated. Then we set the content format for the application DNS message forward. During the interim, it was still yet another number, or now it's 553. And we also clarified very prominently that it's this joint from DOH so that it's not the same protocol just on deal with bit of Justin Coop. And we also added recommend mandateation not to use unencrypted modes of scope but to but provided some security considerations for that in case you want to do that. Yeah. Then there's still some open discussion regarding the the service fee records. So how to find DNS over coopserver And, basically, we came to the conclusion that at least for TLS as an ALPM already existing. But for detail as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "it doesn't work. At least it was decided that we keep it for tier TLS only and need a new ID for a DHLS And for Oscar slash ad hoc that is basically no such thing at in the scope at the moment. So Yeah. There there is some draft on that maybe needed to discover DMS over co ops resources. But in the end, we don't think that the doctor sales is probably not the best place for this. Yeah. And for next steps, we basically only wait on this service b record discussion. And if there's any other feedback please give it. And, yeah, our Last thing is what needs to be done before the working group last call. Okay. Thanks. Ben? Ben Schwartz. Meta? So thanks for Thanks for thinking carefully about all that feedback and and finding ways to incorporate appreciate it. I appreciate it. I I noticed in this presentation your discussion of application DNS seabor, That's something that I've never heard about. And that's a little surprising because I do follow the DNS op mailing list. Mhmm. I think that there's a a process question here. where there's some history of people trying to including me, trying to define alternative representations for the DNS queries and responses. And those have fairly contentious, and it's in general, as a matter of process that I think needs to happen in DNS op. because those especially representations that subset"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "the capabilities of the DNS format. are have implications for the the the DNS system general. As I pointed out on my slide, it's not remain to replace wire format But use a concise method to send it and you can still use the wire format as a forward. So so I suspect that this is a topic that's going to be of great interest to DNS. Okay. So I would encourage you to bring it there. and and get that feedback early. Mhmm. Early. Yeah. I mean, during the hackathon, I provided made some first implementations of that. And I noticed that I still the the draft still needs a lot of work. So I guess we don't probably we'll definitely keep Dennis up in the loop about that. Great. Great. As for the interaction with service bindings -- Mhmm. I am happy to try to help provide more more assistance to to come to the right conclusion there. but I don't know the answer myself because I don't know anything about how co app is normally is. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Any other question? Karsten is in the queue. Yep. Yep. Yeah. I I join the queue for something else, but I think from the point of view, view of getting this work done. I think it it's a good thing to first do the the DNS and Seabaugh work in the context of the Siebel working group because we first have to find out what what we actually get. So We we want to do this in a way that we don't do a lot of additional programming for for DNS, So you want to use CBOR and CBORPECT as much as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "that works for the application. I think we we need to complete that work so we know what we actually get from that and then can go into Genesop and and see how how that would be. Received. Benjamin, do you want to back to the start sheet? had benchmarks again. Yeah. So this isn't DNS or seaboard. So maybe this is the wrong place for the discussion, but I think But with with you know, with with it. especially with these questions about compactness and efficiency, DNS' is usually not the long pole in your in your diagram. It's not the big wedge in your pie chart. of where the traffic is. So shaving off, you know, 50 percent of your DNS bytes is is not likely to save you more than 1% of your of your total system No. Right? The problem is because DNSes involve a lot of them bootstrapping is that if you're working, for example, in a low power area network a wide area networks, where you have very long latencies, yes, it's a small pie part of the pie chart, but it's still significant for the communication part, especially if you go to sleep a lot, So Yeah. Alright. So, yeah, if you For example, if you have have sort of a an example system deployment. or or even maybe, you know, measurements of an of an overall system where you can show that actually you know, DNS actually is a big component of the of the total throughput pie chart. I think that's something the DNS op would love see him with them would motivate a compressed representation. That's not what I said."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "that it's a big part of the pie chart, but it's still even though it's not a big part of this pie chart, it's can have a significant impact, then because it it it's a little unclear. It sounds like you're you might be saying, that that this is because of some a synchronization effect or there's a lot of DNS -- No. If you have, like, a sleeping note on a on on a LoRa link, for example. Yeah. Yeah. that needs to bootstrap every time it wakes up, Right. then it has to do some DNS requests. And if these DNS requests larger than a normal LoRa, payload. then you have to wait a long time just for the name resolution. And that's why we want to get it so small. Okay. That's interesting. That's a so that's really about wake time. Latency is just they can. Yes. It's it's latency of the LoRa link is the problem. Yeah. Okay. And your and your sense is the fragmentation actually introduces significant Let's see that. yeah. Okay. That's interesting. Yeah. So Just just to give a little bit background since we're in the coworking group. The the COVID group has to work a lot, to ensure we can run our assistance without DNS. so we'd never run into this kind of problem. But but of course, it it's a meaningful thing. to to enable applications that do use DNS. So this is just a very obvious thing thing to do. And, yes, Constraint systems have have very different performance requirements from the the large DNS server environments that you probably are discussing Indian as well. yeah, I think, you know, that's a really interesting set of of use cases and parameters, and I think it would be great to sort of bridge that gap and and help the broader DNS community understand this. category of use cases and and get more input about how we can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "tuning the systems to work well for for your cases. Yep. Carson had another comment. Okay. Now that's my real question. You had you had this recommendation for using an empty path for a DNS resolver. Yeah. and I'm wondering whether we are doing this recommendation in the BCP 190. compatible way. So the the there is an RFC that that is a BCP and tells us we have to avoid nailing down parts in our document because the server should be free to decide. And I just wanted to to verify that we do this right. I it's just a recommendation to use the poll path. There's no, must know, say, uses, but with with the reasoning, why it best to use the default pass because it says byte in the header. it just says, yeah, we recommend to use the default password. the room. pass. Pass. Pass. Sorry. Yeah. The the question really is is the strength of this recommendation. if you only can get implementations that actually do that, I mean, That's that's a little bit from what I heard about DNS over HTTPS, basically there in the examples, there's specific UI used And the result is that all the implementations then use this parse which is not ideal because it actually was never standardized. but maybe you can say something about tipping. I could. Ben Schwartz. Yeah. I I would say about 80% of of deployed servers happened to have chosen essentially a path that was mentioned in one of the examples the RFC. That's what I read in papers as well. So And if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "there's certainly a a temptation to to start pinning that path in different places. We've managed to avoid So we are but and that's basically why I put that in there. So it's basically to encourage people to maybe use the root paths the to save the bytes. But if we say, hey. This is maybe too dangerous so that or people will then think that the root path is required. we can also remove it again. I'm just -- Mine is -- -- $10. Don't mind the countdown. We have time. May may I jump in Yes, please. because then I was just I think we we we we'll have another look at the wording, but, generally, this path is discovered and I've think this document can even with that recommendation still follow what what we've done earlier in resource directory that is ever suggested kind of have values that are examples, In this case, we'll also say that it's a good idea to use those values, but still emphasize, emphasize that it still has to be discovered. Yeah. I think that that -- -- any better because we'll have examples in there. And if even an example can send the temptation to us vacation I'm like, we we can't avoid that. Maybe you can have at least one example that actually uses a different Yeah. path. I just want to make sure that that we use language that indicates It is the service decision. and the service decision is discovered by the client. and clients are supposed to be agile and they should use the discovered path and and not assume that to the the passes empty. So that that that I saw that I wanted. So it's not a technical issue. It's an issue of editorially bringing the out in such a way that people understand it. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "Yep. Okay. Any more questions? Not in the chat. None in the chat. Okay. At least. then thank you. Thank you, So I think it's my turn now. Hello? Yes. This is my Christian. I'd like to give you an update on what is happening around the Texan Coop. So as we haven't had this document around in in recent IETF meetings. I'll give you a very brief history around that. This happened, like, 6 years ago or so. There used to be 2 documents, CORO copactragers and request tag. that both describe things that can go wrong when even when using QR properly. and provided the the relevant mitigation. Back then, it was decided to to turn things around to have one document that is talking about the attacks and another document that is providing the solutions. Now to the solutions that document has eventually become a a request tech, and, finally, RC 9175. and co actuators was left sitting for a while. and was essentially now taken up again as a text uncool up. what the document intends to say is that even when you're using coop with the state of the art security methods, and assuming that the encryption, etcetera, has not been broken. It case we couldn't do anything anyway. then there are still these and those pitfalls. to look at then that can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "And what we thought a few weeks ago was that Yep. Now that 9175 is out, We can do that. turns out, we're not quite at the point where we have all the things to point to. So John has brought up something already in the 9175 review, but got lost of it there. So the rough interaction was that he he he found an issue and After a lot of back and forth, I found how I'm missing do how 7959 works. and we might need to do a bit more here. Now the the rough shape of the attack is that we have an attacker that can interceptor message, prevented from being received by the recipient. and then replay it later. It's something where replay protection won't help us So if a client is send and and the the thing that we've already mitigated in 71 9175, is that if this is happening somewhere where there is a lot of block one transfer going on, and then there is a block 2 phase. now things can't get mixed up because there's a request tag on that ties together the different Messages in the block 1 phase. What is happening in the detection here is that there is no block 1 phase, but there is still a request payload. a a full request body, actually, in in the original request. And then the remainder of the response. body. is fetched by additionally requesting, Block 2 parts. And this those request later. This post request on a new token that is asking for the block 2 of that of that resource."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "does not send the request pay those anymore. So there could be a mix up between 2 requests of which one has been essentially interrupted and and canceled by by the phone, by the attacker. and they can then inject that that message later to to cause confusion. So what can we do about this? There are roughly 3 proposals around and Personally, I'm not sure yet whether all of those whether any or all of those adequate the addresses yet? One is to extend this cases in which the client has to send a request tag. So previously, this was only mandated for cases when the client is sending the request in a fragmented way. Now it would also be included, if the client if if there was any chance that the response is fragmented, and there is a request payload in requests of that shape. impact wise, this is Almost trivial on Oscar because Oscar really needs to use any take take But for users of TLS, this would mean that in practice because a constrained implementation can't track too much of those details. implementation in DTS would essentially need to send a request tag with every request that have that can have both request payload and the response payload. we I I don't have numbers on on how bad that really would be."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "but I'm not sure whether this completely addresses the issue either or whether the easiest solution either So this is up for for further experimentation, further exploration, in this document rather. A variant of that is that the server could send a request tag in the original in in the first response, and then the client would use that request to take to pull out more blocks. it's certainly efficient on the wire. It does introduce state on the server. So for the moment, I'd keep this as one of the options that are around. Sorry. Yep. And then there is a third option that Also, it's not completely sure yet. That would be to type to add constraints on where the same e tag and where different e tags have to be used in situations of requests with the request payload. and might also be sufficient. So that's where we are right now. roadmap going forward is to Take the examples that we currently have. turn them into a mini more example or a set of minimal examples that cover the whole problem area. and then evaluate whether the the proposed solution once they have a bit more text around them, really work for them. I don't think it makes a lot of sense to to rush a text on coop through without having an solution at least adopted by the working group. So I think the document is stalled until we have clarity there. That's it from Assad. Questions, comments,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "more things we missed. for something. Yeah. I find this interesting because we are in this transition away from using get for for everything towards no longer jamming all the a nation into the UI, I but use fetch. And fetch, of course, has a request payload. And that is usually not a monster. So it it it's it uses the fact that it can be binary. So you can use something like like Siebel for framing the data. but it might not actually be much larger than than the or even smaller. than the URI parameters would have been So that's actually an optimization. and if we now trigger additional mechanics from that. I'm I'm wondering where this will lead us. But think things would certainly have been easier if blockwise, we're done in a way that in a combination of no block 1 but present request payload and block 2. then that that then just the request payload would be sent again. because that might actually be shorter than all the workarounds we have to do now. Yeah. Can you fix that? 7 Yeah. we fix that? that that possibly, yes. The quest option is what are the guarantees that we give on option numbers that are out there. So procedurally, we could just say that, yep, we are doing a 7 month we are doing this an update to 7 9 pipeline. We've certainly changed the behavior of block 1, block 2. Chance, all that implementations are either as susceptible to the current issues any way and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "or or or might, you know, already be broken or they'll just tolerate it? But it's still it's a breaking change that we would introduce on on an option that is already around. if that is something that we are happy to do, my my impression was that we don't do that, but maybe we do. In that case, Yeah. That would be a that would be a fix that I'd appreciate. Not not only because it is this particular issue But because it allows a stateless implementation of of of hedge operations on the server in the presence of block 2 parts. I I don't want to design this thing in in this meeting, but just as an example, Let's assume we do do an elective option. that a client can use to indicate that that he is ready for a new way of of doing work too. And that would be a one byte option. And the the server could have a one byte option to say, oh, yeah. Sure. I can do 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, Would this be a breaking change then? No. That would not be a breaking change. But it's would just be using 1 more it it would be using an option out of yeah. It would be one using 1 of the 1 of the 1 of the 2 options. Yep. Yeah. So maybe we we should try to design a fix 447959 in competition with the workaround, and see which one hurts more in the end. thing that I'd like that that might be worth looking into that is I don't think we've ever done large interop tests thing on 7959. intermobility, given given given that I was wrong about this, and I have implemented at least one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "moderately widespread co op implementation that does block wise. So I I don't know how how much you would be actually breaking. k. And not only was I wrong, like, No. Nobody nobody spotted it in 7 in 9175. Yeah. The problem, of course, is that that 7959 was before we do it fetch. So the the the kinds of applications probably shifted under our hands. So that that's maybe why we didn't think about that set up. Yeah. Back back back then combining block 1 and block 2 was, like, the examples we had were soap style requests. No. As my impression is that nobody here likes those anyway. So those were treated a bit like 2nd class it's possible. k. Thank you. Just one question, Kristen. on the document here in mind to schedule the solutions to work on. Looking forward to that. By the way, you mentioned what you would update. So I understand 9175, but Why you said maybe also 9177? to just You just 90917. It's a maybe. If if it doesn't need to be updated, it's it's fine. I don't know the precise statements that are in there, on on how request tag needs to there. if it's using it in a way that just inherits the updated Hi. Hi. Okay. Thank you. Thanks. Any more comments or questions exactly for Christian? Heardings seen none. Then we are 10 minutes ahead. we'll schedule next is And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "Next is record with kudos to start with. Present yourself. Yeah. Sure. You just do the next. Right security reset. yep. Yep. Yep. Right. So hello, everyone. My name is Rico Heaglond, and I would like 2% updates to this draft, key update for OScore that we have titled kudos. Next slide, please. So just to recap what this is about, This document used to be structured into the separate part of which one port has been now extracted. So the first part is about the actual core functionality of the document, which is the kudos update for Oscar procedure. which has as purpose to renew the Oscar master secret and master Salt. thus deriving new send and recipient keys for Oscar. and it has some beneficial properties, including achieving perfect forward secrecy and also not changing the ID context which is an old score specific identifier. that can be preferable to leave unchanged in certain contexts. It's loosely inspired by the appendix p 2 procedure that's been defined in those car see. And that's also about performing a key update. So that's part 1 and the core functionality of this. Then we had part 2, which covered the key usage limits in our score."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "and that is guidelines based on a document in CFRG. detailing how many times it's saved to use a specific key before you need your key to not lose security properties of your AAD algorithm. But has what has been decided and and confirmed during previous meetings is that decided to split that content out, and this document has indeed been split and is now living in a separate informational document. that is also being worked on And then we have part number 3 which is about updating OS core senders recipient IDs. where essentially your peers reach to get new values for their sender recipient IDs to continue communication. this is done to a corp option. And And next slide, please. So, yes, there's an overview. of the kudos procedure. You can see that on the right hand side, On a high level, it's about an exchange of nances. N1 and N2. placed in a new field in the score co op option that we have extended. And then we have an internal function called update CTX. that practically takes as input analysis The old context information shown in including the old master secret and master salt. and also an xbyte which contains certain flags and the length of the actual nonsense. and this x byte is also present in the extended loss corruption Yep. Next slide, please. And, yes, we start going over some updates since IETF 116. The first thing to do down here is we extended the considerations regarding minimum non size. to make it clear that while while each pair produces a random nonvalue, we now also recommend that 8 bytes Nuns shall be used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "And based on feedback from from some people, we also now make it clear that, yes, there could be situations. for very constrained devices. where they really need to use a smaller non size, and that is acceptable as long as your overall security level, in the system is at a sufficiently high level. And we also mentioned some some more considerations on, like, risks of collisions and and the birthday paradox and such. Another point is we clarified what information you need to write to non volatile memory. because if your device reboots, well, you need to have stored away a certain set of information to be able to use kudos in the forward secrecy mode. And, basically, what you need to store is all the immutable parts of the score context. But you if you want to be clever, you can include some things that you are able to redarrive from other parts of those core context. And we also covered some general improvements of corner cases and specific scenarios that may occur. and how you should handle those things for instance, if a QDOS execution fails, you, the client may want to retransmit certain messages not to lose information or rather it needs to read or submit certain messages to ensure that it gets the information that it originally requested from the server. Yep. Next slide, please. other things we did, we added a section about considerations for when you're using SHIC with OSCORE. because, actually, usage of sheet can affect how often you need to perform rekeying operations And, basically, this is because of two main reasons. Number one being that if you're using sheet and you're compressing your partial IV, well, it sounds"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "now you have a smaller partial IV space. Meaning, that you have to now perform more frequent rekeying as you're, yeah, you're working with a a smaller space, and we you will run out of partial areas more quick And as it's also stated in the in the sheet document itself, Basically, if you update your sheet context rules, that means that you also need to perform a rekeying if you're using o score to refresh your keys. Yeah. And we also did some a lot of work on the Oscar ID update procedure space specifically, explaining in much more detail how this procedure works and how the message flow is meant to work both for the reverse and forward message flow. So, basically, we you either the server or the client can take the initiative to initiate procedure That's what we call the reverse and and forward message flow. We also have a detailed step by step narration for the examples. We also showed that basically, this o score ID update procedure it can be run completely standalone, and it we designed it as a standalone procedure. but you may also want to integrate this in an execution of kudos So not only are you updating your score security material, you're also getting new raw scores and their IDs and recipient IDs and we show the a more elaborate example now in appendix a of how you can do this combination. And we've also added a lot more extended guidelines for considerations when you are running this procedure integrated in Acudos execution. Yep. Next slide. Another point, and, I guess, a minor change, but we extended the recipient ID option"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "such that you can have a length in there. It used to be restricted to a specific length. But, basically, what we want to do is that this option can have some general usage There's no need in this document to restrict its size we specify it as any. However, when you're using it in the context of the ID update procedure, basically, the The maximum length of this option will be the maximum length of the oscores and the recipient IDs. So when it using that context, it has a a maximum length in practice, but there's no need to limit the actual option linked. Next slide, please. Right. So now I wanted to go over some open points and points we would like feedback 2 from the group. And point number 1 is about this Oscar ID update procedure. So as I mentioned, basically, this is procedure for the pairs to renew their sender recipient IDs. and it can be run completely standalone. or embedded in a CUDA's execution. But, I mean, fundamentally, it's a stand alone procedure that is not really related to colos. and what we would like to propose or get feedback to is if we should split this content into a separate working group document such that we'd previously with the limits content. And we actually raised this in the past. and then it was mildpreference or no opinion to split it out. But, basically, what we concluded is that let's revisit this question when we have extended and expanded this content. and including all the content we had planned. And now we have come to that point, so we wanted to raise this again. because, yeah, the procedure now includes all the information, and it's fully featured, let's say, So the benefit here is that if we do split this out, this document would be mean, specifically targeted on kudos. then we would have another documented specifically about the ID update procedure."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "So a Christian, k. Then I'm just As I understand, there is one link between kudos and the and the app and the ID update that is When you do successive ID updates, you have keep a list of all your previous IDs until you do something like kudos. So the key update would for any practical implementation, still depend on the ability to do kudos and ideally to do that in one step. Is that correct? Yeah. I mean, the thing is that, yes, if you do consecutive idea dates. Basically, you have to keep a list so that you ensure that you don't accidentally start you know, basically, like, you may otherwise accidentally choose an ID that you've been using in the past, then you end up with a situation where you're kind of deriving because the key derivation is based also on the IDs. in such case, you would be driving the exact same keys you already used in the past. So, basically, you would either need to to keep this list and ensure that you don't Well, basically, you constantly keep a list And they're only way that you can clearly list is as we've detailed when you run an execution of kudos. So I suppose in that sense, that link exists in the in the meaning that, yeah, to clear that list, you would need to run kudos, or I suppose there are other ways, not necessarily kudos I mean, as opposed to if you ran something like and hope for such I mean, that would also be There'll also be a solution. then it will be about essentially, running something that refreshes your your master secret. any other feedback input on this split in itself,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "And, ultimately, Karsten Jaime, what do you think should happen with this. You're on. Yeah. I think the split makes sense to do. This is confined functionality that you It's well to describe in in a separate draft even even if this this case where you I mean, you need to obviously, to keep track what identifiers you have been using in in either case, I don't see that. Yeah. to to to not split the specifications in two parts. think it's a good point that that Christian had, but I guess we if I we do this split, of course, we should mention that. Yes. You need to keep this list. but it's not exclusive that you must run kudos. It's really about, okay, you need to keep this list until you perform an action with updates your master secret. which could be kudos. It could also be ad hoc. It could also be I mean, if you're using something like the Oscar Ace profile, etcetera. So it's tied to forming a functionality that updates your master secret, not necessarily kudos. But Yeah. Let me then go to the next slide. Sorry, Karsten. Hi, many of you on that. before we move on. Oh, okay. I'm your takes away. today. Sorry. I used the the big, unused, not digital, unused. I haven't made up my mind here. So I figured that important that we find homes for this work."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "document splitting really is usually something that I like to do when the people working. on the the spit out parts are different. I don't think that That is actually the case here. So I'm Not so entirely sure that we should be splitting this it also doesn't hurt. So Again, I haven't read up my mind. Not urgent. Yep. Thanks. Hi, man. my my case, I to be honest, I haven't followed closely this draft so I don't I cannot recommend any direction whether it's splitting or not. but I can take an action to do that after this meeting. Sounds good. Yeah. Let's keep keep this open for Thanks. further discussions. Next slide. And don't mind the countdown too much weird to me as I have. Okay. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. Another open point we had was We're defining this xbyte in the extended also corruption. So, basically, the we call it Xbyte, but, essentially, what it does is it's a place where you can specify the size of the nuns So you need to specify the size of the NAMS to be actually able to parse the Telescorption. And we also take advantage of this byte for a certain flags in the context of the greatest execution. So currently, we have 2 flags. flag number 1 is about if you wanna run kudos in the forward secrecy or no forward mode. and the forward sequence mode is the main and the default mode you should run. no forward sequence in mode is really for very, very constrained devices that may be unable to store information to nonvolatile memory. And the other bit we have is about keeping observations after rekeying or not. because then there's special actions you need to take. But the idea here would be to define a registry for the x byte"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "which can aid in the future accessibility and then one proposal would be to say that, yeah, in a similar way to was done with the Oscar Flagbyte to say that we're served with 0. for future extensions. And we say that bit 1 and bit 8 to 63 will be unassigned, So yeah. And it okay, Chris. Christian, Christian, As as as the person who is currently on the put on the on the outer registry here. I don't see that this brings much benefit over just using other bits of the of the Oscar option here. I'm sure there are two bits that could be used But I think it would be fine if we just let left them reserved. And if it turns out that there's really a use case that benefit streaming things here rather than in the Oscar option, that document will just up say this one and define the flights and be done with it. I think that's the most straightforward Okay. Thanks thanks for your feedback. So do do we know whether these fit must be 0, or are they ignored if they are set and not understood don't recall the bonus I actually what we say regarding that. I if we actually check them and say that must be 0. I believe we do. I would need to double check that in the text of the draft. Yeah. That that influences what these bids can be used for. Yep. So right. I mean, if we if do want to leave this possibility open, and we do have the registry. Of course, we shouldn't then in the kudos document, we should be flexible enough to to adjust the text accordingly. to leave that door open."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "Right. But okay. Yeah. Can go to the next slide. Oh, yeah. This was another point. So the question here is about When you are executing kudos, and you're sending kudos requests which is basically messages where you actually have the Could those related content in those corruption filled out. Then the question is, If a client wishes to initiate kudos with the server, should it Target specific kudos type resource Or would it be fine if the client targeted any resource, even non existing resources. And we cannot narrow this down to 2 options. And option number 1 is that, well, yes, the client would need to send request dedicated kudos resource. But the downside here is that this kudos resource may then need to interact And in terms of code, with methods in the Oscar related code base. or you can kind of reverse it and say that those correlated code needs to be aware of which resources are kudos resources. then we have option number 2, which then would be, like, And similar to what is done in Oscar appendixp2. where the client requests can target any resource, even non existing resources. but the server should then not act on this re Quest because That's not safe behavior. And when their response comes back, the client must ignore any and the payload and responses. the downsides here is more that Doing it like this may require modifications to those core library itself. I mean, essentially, like, if we say that This should be about a standalone kudos resource. it may be possible to implement this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "having, like, a an external Oscar library and you're only implementing this kudos logic in the kudos resource. for option 2, if it's about yeah. You can send the request to any resource. Well, Now you basically need to, like, intercept requests within the o score library or within the Oscar code itself. to know when kudos should be triggered. So I would say both of these options, they will work. It's more like taking into account implementers and what would be simpler and less of a burden on them So here we'd also like if anyone has any feedback on this point. Yeah. You're on. Yeah. I sent I may have just before the things, which related. There were two points there. One of the points was the question whether this will depend on whether it's their forward called the reverse flow. on or or if this is sort of generally applicable. For I mean, in the reverse, flow that the first request from the client will be any resource, basically. So that that we can't this fight. And for the forward flow, I I think it would be perhaps simpler to have a a dedicated resource and and and in that case, the client is not intended to do anything except to include us because that's the that was a forward flow means. It's it's client initiating the key updates. So so I don't think there's a problem. I think there is an advantage of having that good resource in that case. No. I think it's a good point. I mean, basically, this this solution can also be more flexible in the what we've shown here so you can have a kind of a hybrid approach where in the reverse message flow you may go for one of the options, and you say that, yes, like, the forward message flow, yes, the client must send this request to dedicate the curious option. but that's does not pull the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "hold true for reverse massive flow. And then this also can be combined with the concept that you know, an implementation may want to implement only the reverse or the forward message flow. So the case and implementation is implementing only the forward message flow And we say that, yes, you should target a dedicated CUDA's resource. then you may come to this possibly nice scenario where You could just you don't even have to touch. You can use that 3rd party Oscar library. and implement all your kudos related logic into the resource handler. which could have benefits for for implementers. Yep. I agree. Yep. Let's take the next slide. Just to mention if Christine has an opinion, but he will follow-up on the mailing list. to avoid to beat the tour. Sounds good because I think this point can can require let's say, a longer form discussion. Yeah. Please do, Christian. Thanks. Okay. Yeah. So I think there was this was the last update to be covered about One thing that kudos allows is for attaining generations after a king and basically, when you do this rekeying, you create a new score security context. that means that you reset your sender sequence number back to 0. However, This can have a negative effect in certain situation where you're using observe. because telescopes are notifications rely on the notification number for ordering and to replay and in practice, the partial Avis used as a notification number. So if a pair is set, there's another sequence number to 0. then they will start sending notifications with Marshall AB0 and What we don't want to happen is that that notification is then reacted by the other pair."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:03",
    "text": "Because at this point, you will actually you will have actually performed the rekeying. So accepting that notification is safe So to avoid this problem, basically, what you would need to do is unset the notification number After you perform the rekeying, such that You reset it, and not only do you reset it as resetting it back to series, not correct because then it would be saying that partial Avisero has already been received. So rather than setting it to a specific value is more about it completely. So it's not set at all. And Because if you do this, then that forced notification after working with partial will be accepted as Nintendo. So overall, the proposal here will be to say that When you perform rekey, when you create a new score security context, The notification number should be made as it's uninitialized. Because otherwise, you have this problem of notifications coming after the king being reactive while it should actually be accepted. No one screams? No. Let's take the next time. In one Okay. Yep. Summary next steps. So what we wanna do is address the open points that we do with that we presented here course, taking into account feedback. And Yeah. Otherwise, we continued processing the opening we have they're all documented on the GitHub repository for the draft. And, yeah, any comments and reviews are very welcome. Yeah. Christian says he also comments on the previous point, but I'll follow-up on the list. Sounds good. Thank you, Christian. Okay. we are basically back perfect on time."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "So if there's no other comments, and I see none. we can switch to the next presentation. Here we are. Right. Yes. So this is about another document, the OSCore capable proxies. document. Next slide, please. Just to recap what this is about, This is about enabling the scenario where you can have Communication, using OSCORE between a client and a proxy I mean, as you all know, corp support proxies that be used between the client and the server. But what is not currently admitted or defined in o score is how a client and a proxy or a proxy and the server can use a score between each other. Oscar only considers the client and server as OSCORE endpoints, and the proxies just relayer in the middle, not taking part of the OSCO related communication And originally started as an appendix of the core group Comproxy document. but it was agreed in previous meetings that it's better to put this in a separate draft. Next slide, please. So it basically, contribution is on two points. Point number one being to define the use of all score a communication leg including a proxy. So this can mean between a client and a proxy, a server and a proxy or between different proxies. And, yeah, essentially, enabling the concept that not only client server can be Oscar endpoints, but also that proxies should be able to be Oscar endpoints. the second point is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "admitting nested score protection. So to enable this, I mean, if you have Oscar between the client and proxy, and then also between client and server. this point, you have multiple layers of Oscar protection in a nested manner And the focus is no score, but this would also be a about the group of score Next slide, please. And Well, there are multiple relevant use cases for this kind of setup where you would like to enable Oscar also for communicating with the proxy. I mean some of these are listed here. You have For instance, observe multicast notifications with group of score, you also have a use cases related to lightweight M2M. And we go over all these use cases in these sections to 1 to 2 225. if you want more details on them, you can check. But there's a lot of relevant use cases where this can be were useful. Next slide, please. And as far as the actual content of the document, the message processing steps that's well defined and stable. there's no need for any camera explicit signaling to guide the message processing. We have a high level and create them defined. that can basically, you can take the algorithm and then acting as a client blocks your server. that algorithm will guide you through the steps of the message processing. And we have a specific section that will cover each message, and the direction of the message And, also, we did get some recent comments from Christian where we clarify that well, one one thing that vehicle didn't say, but one, of course, a very big point of this draft is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "This will enable the proxy to perform authorization checks of the incoming request because now there is a security association between the client and the proxy see. the proxy is actually able to check if this client is authorized to use the proxy as a message relayer. Now we explicitly mention that, yes, indeed, that check is to be done. Next slide, please. And, yeah, I won't go into this in detail, but these are the steps of processing and incoming request. So, essentially, you you start there in the top left corner with an incoming request. then you need to check a number of things. First of all, you need to check if there are any proxy related options. because then if you're a proxy, you may end up forwarding this request. And, essentially, I mean, the way this is structured is a is like recursion. So you see in that bottom right where it says decrypt, There's a blue arrow going back to other proxy related options. So you start over. And this is because, again, you can have the situation with the layers of Oscar protection. So each time you go through this this flow you will end up doing is basically either running into some kind of error or you will be decrypted 1 oscar layer. or you will be actually forwarding and sending this request out But so if there was, you know, a two layer script protected message, you would go through twice decreipped in first. And then eventually, you end up But forwarding if you are proxy or you may end up processing that request if you're on a if you're a server. But, again, this is a flexible reset, suitable for client, proxy and and servers. Next slide, please. And some recent updates that already are present in version 6 We clarify they are a bit on the Oscar protection of corp options in outgoing messages."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "So now we actually state that If you have an option originally defined as classuori, I I believe that the the the previous version, we only were covering class u options, but then we realized that well, class i is also relevant. And that has also been added to the rule set for option processing. So one part of the document is basically, like, how should you protect core options? Let's say you have a class u or class i option, and that's defined in Oscar. Well, in certain situations, if you have the net loss score, and now you're actually able to protect them as if they were class E options. And we also improved the general rules, covering some corner cases, And, well, it's like a sanity check. We use the request hash option to understand the if our rules for option processing was correct or not. And you can see the current rule formulation in section 31. there's basically three cases with some sub bullet points. And overall, the design rationale is to try to encrypt as many options as possible. of course, considering that the endpoints need to be able to see the option content in certain situations. Next slide, please. Yeah. In section 5, We also now added some guidelines on establishing Oscar security contexts. I mean, overall, this document is really agnostic about how you originally established the context But nonetheless, we wanted to cover that point. In the context of OSCORE, we have some guidelines if client is using ad hoc. So you can do this kind of the same nest that the execution of Redhook will start by running end of with the proxy. to set up an old courses ratio and trying to proxy. And then as a next step, use that first security association to run a doc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "between the client and the server through the proxy. here, you can also take advantage of this optimized end of workflow we're defining in a separate talk given the Choruscoreadog. And for group of scores, it's a bit more straightforward because you're in a end up relying on the group manager Next slide, please. Then we have some updates for version 7. So, yeah, we expanded the use cases with 2 more more use cases about the co performance measurements. and also EST raw score. when going over a call to HTTP proxy, And, yeah, these documents also have a informative reference to to this document. we had some clarifications on And group score. When group of score is used, thanks to Christian. And just to clarify, we had some kind of note previously saying that the proxies or it's not allowed for the proxies to be to be part of the same Oscar group as the server and client. But realized that was too that was too strong of a restriction. so that has been removed. We have some more security considerations in section 7. Some are inherited from group score. Some are inherited from all score. And Yeah. Yeah. Next slide, please. We will start some considerations now on usage of. Yeah. So compression of co op headers, I mean, that's defined in our C8820 for When you're using OSCOR, basically, you have, like, an inner and an outer compression step for sheikh. And this new draft, the CK 824 update. spells out how this is supposed to work with proxies. But what we want to clarify in this document is basically that the we need a conversion for how to do sheet compression when you have nested"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "nesting of Oscar compassion of Oscar protection. It's not changing the core mechanics of Schick. It's as considered in the case of Neste, those core protections. So, basically, okay, how do you do it? Well, you have one inner shape compression step for each Oscar layer is each layer of o score protection that you apply. And basically, then each of those grand points will strip away that layer. and but you always have only a single outer compression step that is done last after all the inter compressions. So it's using she guesses. It's just about defining how you do this in and out compression steps. Yep. Yep. Next slide, please. Yeah. More updates, we improved some notation in examples in appendix a, to make it easier to see, like, it it can become a bit to read because we have this again, we have the nested protection of oscores. So it can be a bit hard to understand exactly which layer of protection you're in now, so we improve that a lot. We also removed the old appendix b, that was pointing towards this concept of Oscar protected unknown forward forwarding. That was decided during a previous interim to remove. but that has now been moved into a new experimental document in t2TRG. that's this TWTRG on your core document you see there. reference 8. But then we added a new appendix b, where we have some state diagrams showing the message processing. Basically, that that figure I showed previously. We have showing those steps and that flow. Yep. Next slide, please. And, yeah, just to summarize. So this is about a proposed update to RFC 8613 to define how you're supposed to use o score to the finance allow in the first place usage of o score,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "a communication leg including a proxy. And what this also does is explicitly admit nested oscoreprotection you have Oscar in multiple layers. Again, you can have one layer between client and and one then layer them between client and server. So two layers for that particular message. And we kind of had a name for this that we we consider it was this metric core. for this nested protection concept. And, yeah, the benefit here also is that I mean, this is mostly about like, we we talk about Oscar here, but this is also, I mean, seamlessly usable already for Google's core, the actual mechanics and approach, they're stable. There's signal free message processing. And, again, our kind of guideline or, like, overall goal was to try to protect things as much as possible. So if we have a corp option and it can be encrypt dead it should be encrypted. Yeah. Both transform additional material about establishing those core security context proxies, just examples, how you can set that up with a doc And other solutions, considerations on sheet, like I mentioned, and examples of message exchanges also showing, I would say, more advanced scenarios where you're using ad hoc combination with this nested Oscar protection. So, again, you can set up a doc, but you run it, like, client to proxy, and then you run add a client to server. setting up both those associations using using a doc. And, yeah, I mean, at this point, we believe that this version 7 that we're at now it's ready for working loop adoption call. So we would like to get to raise that to the group. and next slide piece, but it's it's over now. Yeah. Thank you all for listening. In 3rd call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "there. I'm Matt Gilmore from Micron. Hi Thanks for your presentation. I'm also chair of the Light Wind Home Working Group. And I was curious about one of your use cases where You described in section 2.4 went up to a gateway as a reverse proxy towards external end devices. Light Could you be a little more granular about that? Yeah. I mean, we we explained that in that second I believe this use case originally came from a No. It's live for you. Right? Right. So you were talking about the second one there, the, like, temperature server uses a light to 10 time gateway as a reverse proxy towards external end devices. That's pretty ambiguous. I guess it's a bit ambiguous here. I I to be honest, I'm not a lighter term expert. We did get this as a specific point of feedback from one individual that was involved in lightweight and RAM, and their seem to have this use case in mind. as a specific use case. But I think okay. Like, we definitely elaborate on this in the text next explain this in more detail what we actually mean by this Yeah. It's a maintainer of light wind into them. I'm like, I've never heard of this. The input came from Derit Navarro. Yeah. It's discussed in the draft delivering a barrel. Okay. if you are using coop, the life within 2nd gateway is practically a cooperative as proxy So you may want to keep talking to the gateway and in the end devices behind it. with these sort of security associations in place. Okay. Maybe perhaps my mistake. I'm a little hung up on that bullet point because it It really threw me off. But thanks for your feedback. I think it's important that, yeah, of course, this is tangible to the people working on these things. So We should definitely elaborate on this and explain it better."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:03",
    "text": "k. Thank you. Thank you. And there's cast in in the queue now. Yeah. So without my work of chat on I think this is really necessary work, and It does. It does. It does. It does. does feel a gap that we have had before. and I also think that the document is Definitely in a state where where it shows the direction that the work will work will take. I actually think it's already way beyond that. And so I'm very much in favor of adopting this drug. And, Karsten, Yaron, Thank you, Jonathan, So just on the point on the lightweight m to m, scenario, if I remember right, this was this was a one time ago, was the requirements phase in in the in in device management service enablement group and I was looking at the situation where you have an application server, talking to like with M2M, management, server, talking to, like, the content client, and The question was how do we enable end to end security between their verification server and the client because lightweight in the scope of lightweight time frame is essentially the call between the Lycos and term server and the like, become term client. that's that's as far as I can recall, the the question about how this this use case came into to the picture for for this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "I don't know if that's ring rings a bell the people involved in, like, they can turn today. Yeah. I think definitely one thing we could do here is is revisit this with David try to flash this out a bit more and and come back to him and see m to bring him into this discussion to expand on this on this text. Sorry for the minutes. Can you state your name again? just for the minutes. We missed it. I'm Matt Gilmore. I with that, with Eichon. I'm with Eichon. to be honest. I'm sure -- -- Gilmore, so I'm registered and Thanks. To your to your comment, go around, if I may. 2, Please. Please. I know The whole point is end to end security with Oscar, and that's why I'm really confused about that use case about light window film gateway as a reverse proxy to external end devices. What does that really mean? I can't I can't explain that part, but I just I'm trying to recall where this originates from. It was fun. It wasn't a requirement. for I mean, this there was a requirement space, like, 5 years ago or something. And and this was one of the use cases looking at how how you handle the end to end security and and the formulation with reverse proxy, I I I don't know. That that was that doesn't come from from the requirement. I'm I'm pretty sure. that serve something that's an interpretation of of Yeah. I am I think that this is based on that discussion with with David Navarro. And But let's come back to him Regarding this, I think we can flush it out and explain it better. I just quickly notice Kristen in the queue for a second. want to say anything, Christian? No. It got handled. Okay. Okay. There are no other comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "I think it's on curtain, Jaime, to think on any follow-up here. Okay. Thank you. maybe we we actually do want to get a sense of the room so we can do the adoption call based on the sense of the rule. So beef before I ask that, Who has read version of of this document. where we'd I don't have to run a poll. Just do a plus one in the chat. So I see one person who has read it. Johan has reddish Yeah. The offers, I hope, have footage. Well, that has read it. Very good. Okay. So we we do have some reception. in in the working group. So let me ask the question who would object to adoption of this the draft in this working group? come to the mic or say something in the mic, and Thank you. In the chant? Okay. And now I actually have to pull out this power tool. Sorry. I haven't used this in a while. So here's the poll. I hope you can see that. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:04",
    "text": "Sorry for the short question. I didn't want to copy. Okay. So I think it fits with here, so I think that that is user result we can use, and we can base the the poll the confirming poll on the mailing list on on this result. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay. Last but not least, Christian. So hello. I'd like to talk about Global Orchid. Unlike the last times, this has come up. I won't give background, And, Kristen, your your VV on audio is it's shopping quite a lot. Okay. Weird. Better now? Better now. Yes. Okay. One one issue one issue to address was about discovery. if the if I'm in a situation where I'm opening the the my cell phone browser, whatever, I'm trying to see what is there that I can connect to. Things work fine. if I already knew what to connect to Not so much because much information would only have been available after a connection was established. that a collection establishment would be easy, but still it would take time, and it would be a manual process, especially from a browser."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "So Well, the main update in Hello? semantics for the service data field, which is part of Bluetooth lowenergy, dvertisements, that says, a running this service, I I I I'm telling this and that if That could and that could easily be packed into the address. So as the result of that, the address form have changed a bit. And now the proposed format And I think that that dotedotapa or the Opera event your ice scheme things generally are what we should talk about today. So just for context, the previous idea was to have core plus gap forward slash slash, and then the the address just as a hex screen. So what motivated the change apart from having had both parts around and having to decide on 1. is that right now, we're having 2 means of identifying the device. One is that it could be identified by its MAC address, and that is useful for some kinds of applications, but other applications can't use that at all. And those other applications would typically have those types of scrap names from the service data below. So we already have 2 kinds of binary data into addresses, and that would be afforded by having for example, dotpled.rpandadotplesc.rp. SD for force. What's the term service data? Of course, the the other approach would have worked 2. But if we look at what your how your eyes are usually used, Sure. 3986 says it's some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:05",
    "text": "Right. we can still go going for the DNS style Authority components with the corp or so that suddenly there can be some mixing. So, for example, someone could try to use the URI Start Corp. comorconverselycoopcos// some sense something like b lead of arbor. I wouldn't rule those out. I don't find either of them particularly useful -- to define risk additional DNS records a 4000000000 record. Be my guest. I'm just I don't see any compelling reason to do it. thought I had one I thought I had one more slide here. I'm a bit confused. other way, Other than that big change, the the steps to explore have been cut down a bit. So A few of the options are things that I would like to keep for for further exploration possibly outside of that document. yeah, that's where we are. And, I've with the question about working group adoption has been raised in the previous thing already was draft of b, situation hasn't much changed much then in that there is no current of stage of stage of 4. but I'd like to bring that up with what with in one of the next interest. That's it from my side, and I guess, we will continue on the on the you're asking, question because that is the I I hear Carsten having a question here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "Yeah. I don't have a question. I just want to mention that that this was exactly the reason why I put locally defined you are eyes on the agenda for Friday. because I think we we There are a lot of ways to to fry this particular egg, and maybe a bike shed to a certain extent that may have advantages, disadvantages. So there there are other places. So for instance, we have these beautiful feHE UIs, with link identifiers in them and so on. And maybe we want to to have a common idea in the callback group to have these locally valid are as as as part of the architecture. you Yep. They definitely fall into this FEET your eyes fall into the same category. yes, that is something that we should that we should talk about at some point. I just want wanted to briefly add that slide that for some reason, I think Mitekko wasn't refreshed. What was missing? there there would be one more option around this I'm using kind of for for for you guys here. that is our c 90 39 with its dev year end But as I understand, there is just no clean way to get the your to to use a URI in the authority component, And the generic ones are messy, and the non generic ones, like, if we start doing something custom, I think we can just as well go full custom and have deleted our per ish identifiers. Doesmouth you? Using them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "Mac Gilmore, using the MAC address as part of your urine, isn't that like, a complete layer violation. As are you saying about did you say URL or URL? It looked like a URL, but it could be a URL for yourself. So Well, as as for the as for the year ends, Well, that that that is that is at least something that is that has been defined and is in what use. As far as I understand, So as as for the use in the URL as it is also proposed not only on the on the year end slide, it it make it will make some some sense for some situations and not for others. I would treat it as similar to the use of an IP address in a URL. So if I'm if I'm using the URLs as they are intended, and follow the the cool uris don't change a document. around w three c, then I would use neither a MAC address or an IP at an IP literal. For the local communication -- -- web. or assuming you're some co app, you already have an IP address. then you're putting the MAC address in part No. No. No. No. No. Okay. I should I should take a take a step back here. So the that's that's essentially what I skipped around the on around the background. co op over get is not using is not an IP based transport. cope over cat is a particular transport particularly intended for devices that have no way of doing proper communication with the device that is within their radio range. and is thus defined over Blue CAT, which does not transport IP at all. So it is, in a sense, that is similar to corporate WebSockets where you have a device you have a user that is constrained not by its resources and energy level and so on."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "But by the environment that it's running on, are typically like running in a web browser where it doesn't have access to all those nice things, like, the IP stack and the UDP protocol, but it only can use what is within the web browser. And in that case, it's either global web soft goods. for communicating with a server somewhere in the cloud. we're a we're a BLE, with a device that is nearby, and there is no IP involved in Cobalt or GAAP. So the MAC address is actually the only address that is usable in in that context. customer here is still in the queue. You want to say something? No. Why am I an issue? And yeah. And there's also the mic open. You don't have any comment No. Okay. Just for illustrative purposes, I'd like to share screen again with slide from from an earlier presentation. on the same topic. that that That's that's the context of it. So When when when using Blue to Zle, the the the option I would recommend is just use IPA with BLE, and then you can use Corp or UDP. There are alternative proposals that do a full IP stack over get proposed, I think, by the Fitbit but that requires having a full basically a full IP stack in in in JavaScript in the web browser, or as the alternative, and this is on the left, what I'm what I'm presenting here. having a transport of coop that is that is clearly distinct from the from from Cobo VideoDP. It's not much different. in the sense that there are other transports that are running a lot of things."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:03",
    "text": "cope over SMS has been proposed, cope over narrowband IoT is used in in live with m to m. and co op over serial has been around as a draft as well. And none of those are running over IP, but they are using the addresses that are around on that particular medium and that particular medium being yearly gap. your EMAC addresses are what is around. the transport indication draft And provides means of using different your eyes in that context if those locally significant URLs thank you, Karsten, for the for for the name. are not suitable in a in a language communication. Thanks, Christian. So something will follow-up this Friday, something will come back at interim meetings. Okay. We are perfectly on time to wrap up and close this meeting, and it must mean comment input. Yes. And the remainder again. Thanks, Simon, for reminding me to remind her again. After reminding again, we have coring formal site meeting on Friday. check the chair slides for more details and the Wiki page on the sign meetings at 117. That's a thank you all for your Fine participation in great work. Enjoy the rest of the week. See your things for meetings. Thank you. Sure. Thank you. Bye bye."
  }
]
