[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign for me is to start I've I really like the uh the people that started five minutes after the after the gives everybody time to like straggle in from their last meeting yes it's the coffee buffer or whatnot yes foreign no Kirsten I cannot hear you so did you hear me know yes much better um so I I did make slides I just typed the the four lines the four bulleted items uh into the notes yes it will work so maybe at that point we should simply share the the notes yes indeed so I'll get some coffee now let's go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:13",
    "text": "foreign Christian we are waiting the usual few minutes before really starting hello three times thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:11",
    "text": "so Kirsten I think you're back yes but it's still hard to unmute right okay so let's get started and welcome everyone this is a core an entry meeting of the co-working group uh I'm Marcus my coaches are uh Jaime Jimenez and Kirsten Norman and as usual the not well applies uh gets familiar with with them if you're not already is not just about IPR it's also in the special about our color conduct so be nice and professional we want another and we have a pretty slim agenda for uh today actually uh the main point was going to status update on the young seed document um in no more to add and then we just quickly wanted to check uh with folks today about the may we received yesterday from Ayan on uh possible links uh to add in some Registries about a few um cooperata uh any more points to add to this agenda or any agenda version in general there's none so we can start right away with young said I'll try to take notes at this big things to note down uh any others appreciated um so Kirsten do you want me to share the notes yes please okay there we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "um yeah so can you scroll down um so the we had a design team meeting on on last Thursday and we discussed the the potential ways forward and uh we in particular we discussed whether there should be additional information in the status uh field in the item status field that we had we um discussing and in the end we decided um you could put lots of information in there but it's not quite clear how actionable that information uh would be so instead we decided to to revert to a simpler stage um but added the the obsolete status that was suggested by Rob I think that that's a good idea to be able to carry around Sid assignments that that are no longer used in the version of the module that the Sid fire um is supporting um so that was the the item status and then there was a discussion about a per Sid file uh status so one way to obtain a personified status would be to look at all per item status entries and if they are all stable then apparently the Sid file is stable uh but we opted for a a bit more explicit transition from an unpublished work file to a published definitive uh Sid file so this should be explicit and tools never should make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "uh the decision that something is published on on information the tool has except it's explicitly requested uh in in the invocation of the tool um so that makes it more more obvious that sit fire actually is still um being worked on and that allows us to actually send around uh documents that are proposals for for stable uh Sid files for for Publishers advice but I'm Percy published yet um so that's an interesting uh result of the discussion have a relatively simple status per item but then add an item at a status per Sid file so we uh can can make it easier to recognize what a Sit file is supposed to do we also discussed whether the Sid file status should be reflected in a file extension but uh uh we we saw lots of tool issues come up uh when we do that so so we didn't pursue that we just said there should be a personified status thank you so that that is probably the most important result and there are two issues that really are beyond the scope of the current document 144 and 147. um so these can be taken on in in one or more further uh documents in particular the the whole annotation support um which is important for for certain styles of using gang that requires some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "some more thinking how to properly do this in uh sibo in in the Json version essentially all the um map keys can get an ad design prefix and then have a different meaning uh but that's not really something that we should be doing for for since so um yeah some some Innovation is required there are some experimentation some tool building and so on and that's definitely not something that uh goes into this uh version okay so uh What uh remains to be done is to do a dash 20. of this document maybe also covering the the tasks 139 66 and 88. these are just things that you essentially have to do every time you touch the gang and we are touching the gang so that that should be done and uh then we will supply that then we will generate an updated response uh to Rob so that there is a draft response circulated between the authors and we will update that with the result of Thursday uh meeting and then send that response to Rob asking him to look at Dash 20. and I think that's all I have so definitely version 20 will also incorporate any possible follow-up comment from Rob yeah we we wanted to have the next interaction based on this 20. um so Rob will get a response that says"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "please look at this 28 and it does that uh in your requirements so if Rob has further comments we would wear there's 21 there's no problem what's doing it as 25 okay well anyway or another we can expect some more update in two weeks then I suppose yes okay that's great anyone uh with more comments on Sid or karkov more broadly well Herring on let's nail this down thanks again Kirsten so I stopped sharing um the next item is about the mail we received yesterday from Ayana and they actually wrote to the RFC editor um ceasing Oscar so they noticed you um approved rata about Co-op that I linked here in the notes they are wondering if any of this Errata should be linked in any of these five Ayana registries um so my personal take is uh none is really needed to even heart in principle uh to link the first rata um to the cop option numbers registry of the core parameters just thinking of the placeholder option numbers reserved for for future location star options but it would be just to give more context it doesn't really add anything uh related to the actual registration procedure uh so we may just reply well nothing really needs to be done and that's it but I just wanted to hear more from you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "my my main problem is that I think that would be difficult for people to understand why we are linking to these router reports so there would need to be some additional explanation uh and uh I don't know where to put this explanation except maybe into a rendition of the correction center applications document okay so in principle anything to say about that can can come there later on anyway I think so Christian um I agree that we don't that we don't really need to put this there this there it doesn't add to the registry right and that was really the only point I could uh remotely see as to be considered now because the other rat or the other registers really are yeah apparently not really needing anything yeah except for 4954 which actually changed the registry and that is duly noted so right um that seems to be under control already anyway yeah yes I'm 49 45. 4 okay thanks yeah that's that's solved okay uh I can reply to Ayana the discussion of this meeting yeah we don't think anything really uh is needed okay uh if there's uh nothing else well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "I think something is moving also about Target after by the way uh so my plan was to to submit it before today's meeting and then the usual disaster happened so the the version of XML to RFC on my laptop suddenly decided it no longer can cooperate with the version of Wheezy print that I have on my laptop now I don't need to use Wheezy print to submit drafts but XML drivers seems to to really like busy print and try to engage it even if it's not needed and yeah that was an interesting hour before the meeting but I didn't through with it okay sorry and I feel your pain [Laughter] okay um he's coming soon then and uh we know that at that point it should be ready for working group last call am I right yes so the the the target attribute and the the ad hoc document should have synchronized working last call from my point of view of you so for the Target as we would I say this as an author for the ad hoc uh document the call ad hoc document I say this as a working group chair and uh yeah then we will look at this um essentially before the the internet draft deadline so we might even have an updated version to look at in your karma"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "I really think so yes okay so he should work to start the working group plus probably already at the next interim meeting or right now I mean we have discussed both extensively that you want to have the new version of Target posted yes okay that could happen today if if I manage to I convince examinated RC all right Andrew is ready for England yeah yeah that's definitely stable a few weeks already okay yeah should we just um yeah handle each other's draft or do you prefer high Met to handle both I would prefer Jaime to handle both that's good yeah okay we will sync with him uh offline I suppose then yeah great thanks which brings us to the any other business um I just wanted to mention we already have a plan agenda item for the next entry meeting um there was uh some discussion between the chairs and the authors of co-opm and and before considering to to proceed it's good to have a pedagogical overview um of the building blocks uh used in in the PM document so that the the core participants get more familiar uh with those to better understand and judge the draft so we are going to have this uh this sort of overview um as a presentation from uh Giuseppe mainly and other cauthors um in the interim in two weeks but of course feel free to propose other topics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "by then so just to remind people of what was going on there so there is this draft that that brings together ippm measurement Technologies with car and the the car people said I don't understand this draft there is ippm Technologies in there and the ippm people said I don't understand this draft this is uh there is Car Technology in there so that's the typical situation of a draft that brings two technologies uh together and in the end the chairs decided we could do it in in core um so the ippm chairs and then the car chairs and uh so we we will have uh a little introduction into the other half of the technology and then decide whether we can go for working group adoption okay for for what we had in mind at least anything else you want to bring up for today if no then we give everyone 60 plus minutes back enjoy those thank you thank you all bye-bye thank you bye"
  }
]
