[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "if you\u0027re not happy in the end of this plane right sure no that was I wanted an update but feel free there you have to talk to Barry about this I don\u0027t even remember I put it down your tenderness very much very wants to have a little bit of a conversation about improving maybe really working group would like just hey what what Ria\u0027s the community can do to help make this a better place so that might be something to this whole thing happen dismiss a piece of attention and with some swatches Francesca that I\u0027m using for the retro solution handles [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:25",
    "text": "[Music] just works okay can we begin to gather begin to be a little bit quieter deep cleansing voice lead everybody in a moment of silence okay we about ready excellent so I\u0027d like to work welcome you to the working group chairs forum here at IETF 104 the co-chairs of the edgy team currently Miriam Kuhn and I the first thing I wanted to do is actually to publicly thank her because I have no other opportunity to do this for over 15 years of working in the edgy team and it\u0027s she has done us a great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:26",
    "text": "service and we owe her some gratitude so I\u0027d like a round of applause for Mary [Applause] thank you I will say it\u0027s sort of an example of how you end up doing things in the IETF I went to a boss that she was chairing I could have sworn I said I would take the minutes and the next thing what I had actually said was I would co-chair Reggie with her which I don\u0027t actually recall ever saying but that\u0027s okay so anyway this is the working group chairs forum it\u0027s still part of the IETF here\u0027s our note well our agenda for today we\u0027re gonna talk a little bit about the working group chair design training working group chair training design team which is looking at the organization and content of all of our training materials for working group chairs we\u0027re going to spend a little bit of time talking about the agenda time experiment and also just scheduling in general and then we\u0027re going to have an open mic so with that I would like Francesca hi everybody my name is Francesca Patton beany and together with Tom inside I am co-leading this effort so this is all the the team names is written there so this started after IDF 103 so the goal of this design team is to perform an inventory of the existing training material such as an including website data tracker wiki etc our first goal is to map the gaps in this material and to gather ideas for how and where the material should be organized and also to identify any ideas for filling the gaps so the output of this team should be to draw a list of what should be included in a basic set of of material that new working group chair should have so we think this is a subset of the above this is the set of inventory we have done so far so we have gone through all of these or most of these and make a summary of what is there what is not there what we would have liked to see in general as a summary we think that there is a lot of information that can be found in all of these places the problem is that is not optimally organized it\u0027s not very easy to find and there is some overlap information and some outdated information so I just wanted to focus on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:30",
    "text": "on two particular resources that we looked at we we thought these were the most important and with most information in it one is the working group chair resources that are at ATF dot org slash chairs and this page links several resources about procedure and tools and is really for anybody not only for working of chairs and there is a section there about new chair resources which has a link to the wiki second is the wiki so the working group chairs wiki which is a great place to start for new chairs and some information is links are updated some information is missing and it\u0027s way more info than just as a new working your chair you would want to see so there is a lot of details there as well so just to go through the wiki a bit more in detail here at listed so the the main bullets are the sections in the wiki\u0027s and the sub bullet are what we thought are gaps so there is an introduction we would like to see a new section this so this is a gap about obligations and responsibilities for work working group chairs that is missing right now there is a section about rules so so we in there we would like to see maybe a summary of what a new working group chair must read that\u0027s a BCPs and and references then about tools we identified some some some more gaps like info and links to meeting material management medical jabber and leather pad are now missing text on how to use them for for people who have not seen those before and links to mailing list archives eating\u0027s and and this useful link would have been good to help there then there is a section about known tools and there it would have been nice to have some inter about how to plan and run a meeting consensus and the role of the chair in between meetings so again this information can be found often somewhere else but it\u0027s just this is what a new working group chair would like to see all in one place then there is a section about document state and again some intro about the document state process would have been appreciated this can be found in another resource that is a slice of leadership training I think that was a training material finally some more some more section about working to draft herding soliciting implementation feedback email addresses holding effective working group meetings and there is a really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:30",
    "text": "nice meeting checklist and that would be nice to have highlighted and older working of chairs forum and then there is some topics to add which are quite important I think as well for new working group chairs such as how to schedule an interim and others so for this design team we have now met three times usually and the proposed next steps would be to start creating an index for these for the working chair training and we think the wiki is a good place to start we would like to see a structure to separate between the basic must-know info which is useful for people who are starting as new working group chairs and the rest where there is a lot of details and any working group chairs can find information and then yeah point to all the resources in order of priority then we should review and resolve the overlapping material and the result of missing and outdated information so you can help you can identify more gaps anything we have missed so we have Google Drive folder when we have a document called caps and there we have listed anything that brainstorming whatever we think yeah if we couldn\u0027t find information about or you can also send to the chairs mailing list or you can also contact me and and be part of the of the design team and and participating in trade calls as well thank you there\u0027s any questions tiny red button at the bottom seven there we go so two things first I didn\u0027t see on your list of materials that you had already looked at I know the routing area directors have been running a working group sort of sessions training sessions I\u0027ve know I participated in one and they\u0027ve got recordings of I think if not all of them a lot of them so that might actually be a good source of material that would be great I don\u0027t know if we\u0027ve seen those particularly but yeah the question I had was one about doing some sort of in-person training is that under consideration for new chairs do we know what the churn of new chairs is would there be enough folks to at every IETF meeting or every few IETF meetings have a you know in-person kind of training and QA so that was not the goal of this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:33",
    "text": "design team the idea was that the output would be like a set of material that the chair could read it me personally I had this training by my ad I do you think that\u0027s something we could add to a list of things we might want to consider and you might want to you might want to add that to our gaps yeah like yeah like maybe there should be some training but it will come as no surprise to anyone that I\u0027m a ham and I\u0027m perfectly happy to do consensus discussion as part of that so right there is a there is an old tutorial that was done on working group chair training it\u0027s it\u0027s and it\u0027s one of the things that was in the inventory ELISA Cooper thank you very much for doing all of this work definitely much needed just in response to Pete the work the idea of doing a regular training chairs has was discussing the iesg after the last ITF open mic at the plenary you know something like once a year and recording it\u0027s for other people who could see it other times like we don\u0027t really know what the cadence would be but I think like once this content is organized in a straightforward fashion it seems like a logical thing if we can find volunteers to do it benedick so Alyssa was not really highly o rapping with this I mean I we had talked about trading but was that intended to be for continuing training versus for initial your first time chairs I mean why would you limit it somebody wanted to come to the training like yeah well I think when we talked about it it was for new chairs right oh no your memory it\u0027s definitely better than mine so I don\u0027t know about that I think I was pretty groggy that session but my memory says that it was for for continuing training I mean clearly I both are useful and you know I would support doing both I don\u0027t know where the relative priorities lie any other questions okay thank you very much for asking Barry hi we have things that we\u0027ve been discussing in the isg that I\u0027d like to have bring up here one is the free time the the the unstructured time and what the hell that has affected scheduling there\u0027s been quite a bit of discussion about that and I just I don\u0027t really have much to say about it I\u0027d like to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:33",
    "text": "turn this to you and say let\u0027s have a discussion for can you time it to 15 minutes for right now and this will cut it off at that point of the need for unstructured time how that balances with the need for working group structured time and what effect this has had on on conflicts and other issues with scheduling please come to the microphone and talk to me about this for right now and while nobody\u0027s getting up to the microphone I\u0027ll say the experimenting with this unstructured time in different ways by putting it on Friday in Bangkok and putting it on Wednesday here has been the result of comments from people saying they needed the unstructured time it may be that non-working group chair participants and working group chairs have a different view of the need for this and how it affects your working groups here we go people are coming up thank you hi rich salt I\u0027m curious because this seems to have been a concern of the iesg growing but non constant drumbeat over the past times and I know you\u0027re on and off the I is GC you may not know but I\u0027d like to know where they\u0027re getting the input or hearing that this is coming from may be divided between chairs and non chairs or other or the people I just I hadn\u0027t heard much of a request from that or seen much of a request for that in the little area where I work so I\u0027m just curious if there\u0027s a way to characterize the input that the IC has gotten such that repeated experiments are useful and necessary or whatever okay one thing I know is some of it from surveys but Elissa why don\u0027t you jump the line and give a better answer to that as someone of continuity yeah so in terms of like the between last time and this time we based the decision to try this try some experimenting with unstructured time again off of the hf 103 survey showing like two-thirds of people who filled out the survey thought that unstructured time could be valuable midweek so we put some on structor time in the agenda midweek prior to that though before the 103 experiment I think it was more ad hoc we had mailing list discussion in various places I don\u0027t know if Michael Richardson this year had you know been suggesting lots of different ways that we could experiment with the agenda and other people coming to us on the side and saying hey should we try this or that so again just sort of threw something out there for 103 which nobody liked which is fine but that was more ad hoc to come to the conclusion to to try that hi Tommy Polly so I think as far as the experiment come last time to this time it certainly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:33",
    "text": "seems to be that the Wednesday location is going to be more successful based on what I\u0027ve seen of people scheduling things in various groups and I think as both a chair and a participant I think this unstructured time is looking to be very valuable it to some degree means that your week gets even more filled up but these are useful things so in one example like as a chair I\u0027ve it\u0027s nice to have these outlets for things that would otherwise become rat holes and take up a lot of time in the group to have focused areas go off and meet and be able to come back and report that seems to be a very valuable thing and also as a contributor to a working group I\u0027ve I have a site meeting that we\u0027re doing that would not be appropriate to take away time from the main working group but it\u0027s still very relevant to a subset of the people there so I think it is a very useful thing to continue doing and it seems like we\u0027re going in the right direction for how to manage the experiment so Robert sparks I\u0027m just adding a little bit of data to Alice\u0027s answer to rich the requests for unstructured time were happening like in these working group chairs meetings and at the plenary it was it\u0027s something that has been asked for quite a lot I have individual comment that I\u0027d like to throw and I think that the ability to assess the experiments would be enhanced it would be easier to understand whether things are working or not if and it would be easier for people to take advantage of it if the shape of the experiment at any given meeting were telegraphed earlier than it has been so far so I think yeah the first thing that should happen is that we should decide what we\u0027re experimenting with write that down and then write a report on it so we can see there is the results because I think it\u0027s supposed to be reports for experiments that we run on process in the IETF just like some I recommend of the process this has been better than the previous one the previous one either gave people a day off to do some tourism between that and the I Triple E meeting that followed or it gave people the opportunity to sort of leave halfway through Thursday that was a disastrous way of doing it in my view I think we understand that yes this one is a bit better because actually it\u0027s quite tiny because of the unstructured time there\u0027s a really first class tutorial that anyone who ever wants to know what a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:33",
    "text": "Rooter looks like and the implications that has on their work should probably go to so we\u0027re kind of you we\u0027re really only down to about two hours of unstructured time if we start to put to talk decent tutorials in the first half of that remaining time however I am really worried about the number of overlaps we have the number of times that there have been two or more working groups that I want to go to that I can\u0027t go to and if we\u0027d use this unstructured time for it then maybe there would have been less there clashes and for me that is the most difficult part of the experiment and finally on scheduling you know we created the infrastructure that allowed Big Data to happen why can\u0027t we do some decent big data collection like who was at which meetings who is writing which drafts and what the overlap set really is as opposed to what happens at the moment the chairs guess the ADEs sort of sometimes guess a bit more for them but not always and the net result is that lots of people who should be in the same room at the same time art and so we don\u0027t do the work we should do don\u0027t sit down Stewart I have a question for you on the second thing you said okay do you think do you have any okay is it you is it a perception or if you actually looked at your schedule now I know there are several working groups where there are two I believe I believe that what I\u0027m asking is is it demonstrably worse this time because of the unstructured time than it has been at other meetings that\u0027s the question well let\u0027s spin it the other way around there was the unstructured time was time that we could have used to do some more disinfecting in yes we\u0027re not taking advantage of that and the really fundamental thing here is the face-to-face time there\u0027s many non structured times available there are four evenings at least there are lots of lunch hours you know we\u0027ve always managed to work the unstructured time within the unscheduled time in the normal format of the meeting so I have not quantified whether I\u0027ve lost any more this time but it seems to be pretty reasonable to expect that there were four hours that we could have used deconflict some of the meetings okay thanks Dave altameyer is there any thought about maybe doing a hum or something during the plenary asking people some question relating to this this topic to get a broader you know sense of of the room cuz its own I fear a little bit that maybe we\u0027re talking to ourselves that there\u0027s you know some you know confirmation bias around around these kinds of topics it\u0027d be interesting to see where the where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:33",
    "text": "the consensus is in the room as far as you know the general participation and in the I ATF maybe that might be a way to get a better sense it would not surprise me at all should this topic come up again in the plenary at the moment Mike but I think there\u0027s a difference between talking about it at the mic and actually getting a sense within the room as to whether they share that opinion okay benkei doc so with respect to Stuart\u0027s point about overlap or conflicts I mean yes we have this four-hour block of time but if we did want to schedule in structured working group sessions during that we would need to leave hour and a half for lunch and not leaves one maybe two slots that we could schedule working groups in and so you know if you have a conflict you know eight conflicts eight sessions where there\u0027s conflicts now or you want to be in two or more things we can only fix two of those at most maybe one or maybe only one and so you know how big of an impact is one chunk of unstructured time really having on your the conflict list ELISA Cooper so with respect to the interaction between the unstructured time and the conflicts there\u0027s actually the same number of slots available because we slightly changed the length and the distribution of the lengths of slots in order to make that unstructured time work and that was true both at 103 and here so strictly speaking if there is a person you increase in conflicts it doesn\u0027t have to do with the number of slots available because the number of slots is the same or it can occur it can accommodate the number of requests that we that we got both times as far as humming at the plenary we have I think between unstructured time and conflicts five questions drafted for the 104 meeting survey about this topic and they\u0027re all multiple choice with like at least four choices each so I would be a little bit reluctant to try to gauge that matrix of opinions in the plenary a lot of homes but I am we have a slide in the IHG portion of the presentation where we\u0027re going to talk about this and really strongly encourage people to fill out the meeting survey including those questions and we\u0027re going to send it out a little bit closer to when the meeting ends to increase the likelihood that people will do so and I think that is maybe a little bit of a better basis to extract broad-based opinions than how many in the plenary ironically Wednesday afternoon is my most conflicted period all this week and I think it\u0027s actually over II oh I think it\u0027s actually a little bit because of the format of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:34",
    "text": "providing that big block of time without the usual schedule of function how that works so a number of things I\u0027m interested in and then my working group is interested in you know self-organized for these side meetings which is great but then they made like a three-hour agenda which is a little unnecessary and becomes on you know untenable to get them all in so we took perhaps the same block of time and dribble them out an hour at a time through the week I think that might be a better run gondwana elicit covered most of what I was going to say but just generally the idea that if you say would you like some unstructured time everyone will say yes if you say to you what do you not want you\u0027re making this a conflict everyone will say yes if you don\u0027t propose it in the way of a trade-off and what the pros and cons are then people are just going to say yes I\u0027d like one of everything please that\u0027s why one of the questions that I had for all of you is how you would like to balance the unstructured time with the working group time anomalous speaking both as a chair in as a general participant um people who kind of have an expectation of what their ietf week is going to look like and I think in the book case of both 103 and 104 it would have been better to have gotten certainly a lot more warning that the schedule was going to look different and this is what we\u0027re going to be doing differently than what we\u0027ve done in the past that would have been useful and and then just looking ahead for scheduling you know we have an IETF coming up in Madrid and and know and like we did in Buenos Aires we\u0027ll probably want to be adjusting to the local customs there and so that that would be good to also the burnouts well in advance as well so two things there are the last first we the first time I recall us doing a shift for that was Paris in 2004 where we permanently it turns out changed the schedule and illuminated the evening things by shifting things later and stuff like that so you know we are responding to that and looking at how they work out sorry just what was the first thing that you said very briefly oh it\u0027s been a warning sorry yes yes we think we did give a sufficient warning so maybe one of the questions is how can we better communicate this so that people are more aware of it do you have any ideas about that well certainly you know a general broadcast on the IETF list you know as early as possible is saying you know be aware for the upcoming IETF we\u0027re doing you know with you know Wednesday afternoon experiment with unstructured time and and so you can plan you week based on that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:36",
    "text": "and we believe we did that so Alyssa got back in the queue and she couldn\u0027t okay thank okay cool thanks Ben Gaelic again interesting ly enough I had gotten into the queue to raise essentially this topic before Andy started talking and I guess the situation is maybe a little bit less clear than anybody has been saying so far I guess Robert had also started to ask about sort of the question of warning and so may yes we think that we did say we were thinking about having unstructured time well in advance but as we\u0027ve been discussing on the working group chairs list we didn\u0027t really say yes we are definitely having unstructured time and it will be at this time until the draft agenda came out and there\u0027s been a lot of people saying on that list and and hear that having a concrete indication earlier would be good but from the point of view of scheduling this stuff if we\u0027re gonna make an early commitment to having unstructured time in a specific time while we have to make that commitment and there\u0027s a cost it out which means that it constrains the scheduling of the structured time and so to me at least the question I have and I don\u0027t know the answer to is whether this unstructured time is sufficiently useful and good enough that we do want to make that early commitment because I think for for 104 we were perhaps not entirely sure that we were gonna do it or how it was gonna look like until we knew what session requests we got and how we could schedule it hadn\u0027t cut the line for this topic ever I agree with everything that been said for one on three we announced this in May and the meeting was in November so we announced for 103 before a couple months before 102 I think we\u0027re unlikely to ever do better than that for something which we call an experiment that\u0027s a lot of lead time and we knew we wanted to do that because it would affect people\u0027s travel plans that\u0027s why we did it that far in advance Brian Rosen slightly very small a slight variation on this topic but specifically to side meetings I\u0027ve there there is a policy against not allowing remote participation not a resource limit but a policy you can\u0027t have remote support for a side meeting I think that\u0027s a problem it is a problem I have this very problem I have four or five people who desperately wanted to get into a side meeting and can\u0027t and I\u0027d like to have that dealt with noted Thanks yeah necessarily assume there\u0027s not there\u0027s not a resource limitation for side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:37",
    "text": "meetings that occur concurrently with other things that are going on yes sure if it was if it was just a resource limit I absolutely understand that and wouldn\u0027t want you to add resources for that but to just say no without me having an actual at my strain as we\u0027ve noted the request I just offline could you maybe send me where that policy is documented so I can refresh my memory so one more thing I want to I want to veer a little bit on this still on this topic are you finding the wiki to set up the unstructured time to be an effective way to show the schedule of the unstructured time sessions do you have other needs that aren\u0027t being met by that that you can suggest for some small amount of tooling or a different way of presenting the information Ben Campbell\u0027s an individual I don\u0027t have an answer to that question so I\u0027m gonna step back and see if anyone wants to jump in front of me it doesn\u0027t look like anyone\u0027s jumping so I was just up here to make the observation that the instructor time seems to be filling with structure and so so which makes me wonder how much people how much these people are getting it to be able to ad hoc thing it\u0027s like I just realized five minutes ago I need to have a conversation to find the right people yeah this beat to echo what he just said I went looking for some time to get together with the Directorate that I run and there was no time left on that structured schedule whereas if it was you know yeah making room reservations is nice but having some of these big rooms available with corners that could just be assigned to people would be a much easier way to go so you in other words we are engineers and we tend to put structure on unstructured things yes okay the other topic that I had that I wanted to talk about here was that the IAS G has started discussing helping you help the community to make a cultural change about behavior in meetings and on mailing lists and I\u0027m not talking about the harassment end of things which we have covered I\u0027m talking about the general demeanor with which we operate and the fact that people have come to us both in the plenary and offline and said I or people I know have been driven away by the way people are treated in the IETF some of it has gotten better some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:41",
    "text": "of it has not and I have a list of some things that if I should drop my reading glasses but I didn\u0027t but you know we\u0027re talking about things like name-calling and other overtly nasty language that I think most of us can agree we shouldn\u0027t do two things that there\u0027s a line somewhere there\u0027s and that line is gonna vary from person to person things that aren\u0027t black and white things we might call unprofessional behavior and bullying and and sarcasm and things like that where at some point it\u0027s still okay and at some point it\u0027s not and it\u0027s tough to judge so I\u0027m not gonna not going to go through the list but I\u0027m gonna say what the bottom line is that in my notes is that we want to encourage people to stick to technical arguments and not talk about a person\u0027s affiliation motives qualifications country they come from any of that stuff stick to the technical arguments and explain why you disagree rather than saying that\u0027s a stupid idea or otherwise being dismissive what I\u0027d like to see and when I say I we\u0027ve discussed this in the IES G but I\u0027m really giving my personal opinion right now is for the community as a whole to say essentially dude we don\u0027t treat people that way here so that people who come can see that that\u0027s it\u0027s the culture and I think it\u0027s it\u0027s you guys it\u0027s it\u0027s the working group chairs who are best suited to passing this to the working groups and enabling people in the working group to to do that I\u0027d be interested in any discussion you have about what I said and how we can help you do that that sort of thing or whether you don\u0027t want to do that and why I think it sounds like this is Barbara stark I think it sounds like a good idea I would like to add one additional element to that list of I guess demographic characteristics it\u0027s been noticed by a number of people that operators are rather underrepresented and they seem surprised to me when I tell them one of the reasons operators stay away is because often a list goes a discussion is along the lines of well those operators are stupid and they don\u0027t know what their doing and it may come as a surprise to people but that kind of turns off a lot of people as well so that\u0027s an additional demographic of why a lot of people I know and I work with really try to avoid the ietf I do think it is something and I think it\u0027s something where I have tried in some of the things I chair or contribute to to simply push back and you know that\u0027s not a good thing to say and oftentimes I\u0027ll do it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:42",
    "text": "privately sometimes I\u0027ll do it on the list so well that just leads me to tell a story about that the what do we call it right before the newcomers meet-and-greet when we\u0027ve got the West was running this thing where the the newbies go from table to table and I was at one of the tables and some people came over one of them was an operator and he said he\u0027s been avoiding the IETF for years and finally got sort of pushed into coming to one and I said well tell me something about why and he said because frankly I\u0027m I belong i participated in enough toxic organizations and i don\u0027t need another one now to be fair he added Nanog to that list of toxic organizations so it isn\u0027t just us but that\u0027s exactly the kind of thing that I\u0027m looking at and he and as an operator he felt particularly called out there Mary okay Mary bar so I mean I agree with your point that we shouldn\u0027t behave in certain ways I think yeah make it for normal high people okay not been high okay and so and so my challenge and you called me out right I had there was a sarcastic thread it wasn\u0027t a technical thing it was about the agenda and I personally thought I don\u0027t know if any of those people are in the room but I it was one of the silliest discussions I thought I ever had and I got sarcastic because you know I was grumpy and some of the people were fine with it like what are the people I know really well and I know he didn\u0027t take it personally right and the other person was an experienced person although I don\u0027t know them very well so they probably hate me now um so the thing is you called me out we had to you know I need to find nicer words to use sometimes and that\u0027s fine I\u0027ll do it the thing is you need to call people out when you see it cuz we don\u0027t always realize that we\u0027re causing that problem right we\u0027re just and I made that point on the worker tears list we\u0027re not the most socially attuned people in the world right and like I said my mother has tried to deal with it but she failed miserably so we need to help each other right let\u0027s talk to somebody after a meeting right or if it\u0027s really bad during a meeting stand up and say that\u0027s not acceptable right thank you Mary why do we give affiliations when standing at the mic I\u0027m sorry said again yeah sorry my name is rich why do we give affiliations when standing at the mic yeah we have been encouraged to I don\u0027t know with what we really push you to is say what your name is and many people state their affiliations but I I\u0027m not aware that people have been really pushed to say their affiliations general there may be some working group I think a common practice is that people will say you know echo Mozilla or rich Sol\u0027s akamai or whatever and therefore the newcomers come up and say it and figures prove it random operators you know or enterprise data center people they feel like they\u0027re painting a target on their back so maybe we should actively discourage that and just say when you come into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:44",
    "text": "Mike say only your name okay Kent Watson when this conversation came up on the list I made this suggestion that perhaps a something akin to the note well could be made or and then I each chair could flash a slide beginning of their working group session they\u0027re just something along the lines of you know these are the parameters and we try to run our working groups by not that we would have to do this for every ITF meeting going forward but you know one meeting once a year perhaps that\u0027s all we need the reason for that is because he gives the chairs the cover to then make a statement during the meeting of hey you know remember that slide from the isg you know because if the chairs are just having to make a statement on their own they may not feel empowered right they don\u0027t have the backing they don\u0027t have to take the blame they don\u0027t need to the heat they can say I\u0027m just I\u0027m just referring or repeating the information that was provided from above it\u0027s P and I was always under the impression that riches last name was Akamai but there you go I know like Larry Spamhaus yeah so a couple of things first something Mary said we kicked in my head which is a lot of the people who are ill socialized enough to do goofy things not because they\u0027re being mean but because they\u0027re ill socialized also don\u0027t react too badly if you say please stop that because they\u0027re not offended by you telling them that they were being ill socialized they\u0027re used to it thank you mom that was very good the other one though that I thought might be useful a lot of times people get wound up in working group meetings especially at the mic by making arguments about something that\u0027s pissing them off and I as a chair I think it\u0027s useful and you can set this up by putting parameters on the discussion beforehand but also when people are speaking to say what do we do make it an engineering question what do you want the document to say what what should the change be can we leave this alone does this need to move to a different working group what what\u0027s the outcome not why it\u0027s bad don\u0027t care what\u0027s the outcome that you want and that will tend to turn the people away from getting personal about stuff thanks Pete that\u0027s a good one Ben Campbell so so two points this reacting to what\u0027s been fed in the line when we talked about naming our affiliations it wasn\u0027t but a couple of years ago where people at the mic of the fund are you asking us to do that so I don\u0027t do it personally and and I agree with the idea that we probably shouldn\u0027t I think it fits what we at least claim as our culture better to not do it but I do want to keep in mind that there are people in the ITF who have been asking us to do that and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:44",
    "text": "think they do that because they understand that corporate money influences policy and etc etc so there there are concerns both ways so I think we have to be a little careful on that point on how we balance things the other one is I think we should be and this is just kind of a net but we keep coming up with new things and we keep thinking maybe we should add it to note well or add it to a slide at the beginning of working groups everything we add to that dilutes everything else and we are ready to the point where the note well is very very dense and pretty much a lot of working group chairs myself included just throw whatever it\u0027s like note it well move on they just just remember one knows what it says if we need to convey new information we need to find new ways to do it then hey Doc so with respect to the whole you name your affiliation thing personally I don\u0027t but I was in the smart Baath I guess it was and the chairs are one of the chairs explicitly slide please state your name and affiliation and I thought about getting up and objecting to it at the time but because it was a Boff that was targeting a research group I did not really feel like I had the standing to make a formal objection and we\u0027ll cut it off after Adam okay Mary Bart see and so I have two points on the thing about affiliation there is a service provider that\u0027s not here this time and you will never get him to stop saying his affiliation and if you\u0027re try and get him to stop then he gets angry and so you really don\u0027t want to do that so don\u0027t make a big deal about it with certain people um and then on the you know the snark or sarcasm that\u0027s nice I\u0027m a special special specialize in sarcasm um mine was on a discussion with an ad okay so it has to come from the top as well right they need to think and it was because the person didn\u0027t carefully consider what I put in an email right so it\u0027s you know it\u0027s got to come from you people - it does and I didn\u0027t mean to say that to imply that it doesn\u0027t yeah Adam Roach I just wanted to put a fine point on what Ben was saying which is presently the note well slide actually does have pointers to at least two documents that bear specifically on this so yeah it\u0027s right and a bullet point I mean yes so I mean specifically covered in the note well it\u0027s just that there is so much stuff there that unless you tell chairs you need to spend five minutes on this slide it\u0027s going to get lost and that\u0027s not a useful like way to spend people\u0027s time yeah III agree that we don\u0027t want to put up more boilerplate slides in front of every session that mob the messaging anti-abuse working group they have conduct policy and don\u0027t talk about this and talk about that and every session has three or four slides like that and it does get tedious from gondwana sorry Barry I know you just closed up the line but something that came up from this was that we do the note well at the start of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:45",
    "text": "every single session if we made it five minutes of solid work that would be it a lot of repetitions for us a week dhf has no starting meeting that everyone goes to where you could present something like this is that something that\u0027s worth bringing back is going through that at the very start and then spending a decent amount of time on the note well and on guidelines for behavior throughout the meeting once so taken thank you yep and just to be clear that this Kent again just be clear I wasn\u0027t actually saying add it to no well though that\u0027s not a bad idea I was saying a special slide just on this point I understand and in general anytime there\u0027s a new thing that you would want to add to a note well just create a slide for that point and then you let the chairs flash that slide for one meeting only and then put a little well and disappears Thanks so then there\u0027s one more thing I just want to say and then I\u0027m done Karen sorry I just I didn\u0027t want to get up and walk all the way over there if you don\u0027t mind if just a couple things I wanted to point out I just stuck this slide up here because it\u0027s in the newcomers over you I\u0027m not real fond of the slide I think it\u0027s kind of silly to tell people to remember to sleep but you know but help with the kind of language that we have here just like three or four bullets so this is what we\u0027re telling the newcomers and I wanted people to know that that\u0027s we\u0027re telling newcomers and the second thing I wanted to point out was we\u0027ve kind of glossed over it but in Francesca\u0027s presentation she had that the gap the first gap was obligations and responsibilities and we were sort of looking like you know what are the ten things that we you know one sentence each what are the ten things we wanted the working group chairs to remember that they\u0027re responsible for and one of them would be maintaining appropriate decorum in their working group and one of them would be you know make sure you pay attention the IPR policy so Francesca could probably really use some help with developing that so talk to her about that thank you well you have this slide up I\u0027ll point out one thing I\u0027d like to add to the third bullet talk to people and listen to them a large part of the issue that we have sometimes I know what I think I took listen now so if again what I one of the reasons I got up here was to encourage the chairs to help us pass this around through the community and use your positions to do that if I post my notes that I was looking at on my iPad to the working group chairs mailing list and start a little discussion there are people interested in doing that okay I see nods I don\u0027t see anybody running out of the room thanks for giving me the time okay at this point we have ten minutes left it\u0027s open mic does anybody have anything else they want to bring to the work under chairs for them okay I don\u0027t see any people at the mic the only thing I wanted to mention at the very end of all of this is with Miriam stepping down and some of the other changes that are ongoing we\u0027re going to take a look at a number of these programs and so if people have any thoughts on what this particular forum "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:46",
    "text": "useful not useful used it used to be training feel free to mail the edge\u0027 mailing list or or send feedback to whoever will be more details coming out but I just wanted to give everybody a heads up so go ahead then Thank You doc yeah I was just sort of curious if anybody had had issues with remote movie centers because I know we do have through Medeco the option to give them like a special presenter mode versus just standing in a microphone line and pushing the red button right no there is but not everybody\u0027s been using it and you know I think I sent an email out like Sunday or something pointing us out but was that email helpful very much scan so we had a remote presenter I didn\u0027t find out until like so very late and so we did it the way where we just pressed the button and I think it worked okay right so I mean I think you know and then we also I was proud of us I didn\u0027t realize we had a newcomer actually present in our session yeah you have no never mind my affiliation so I see this a lot with remote presenters that it always starts with was this thing on or they start out muted because they needed it for the previous presentations there\u0027s always some technical stuff and usually they\u0027re incredibly loud I mean compared to somebody just talking to the room mic they\u0027re incredibly loud you can hear them we know what when somebody is remotely presenting in the other room because we are hearing them through the walls especially here so this is something to do and the presenter mode helps with some things I presented once like that but there are other technical issues that are not really addressed by the present remote alright yeah Jonathan Lennox I mean I think that this is more from observing other working groups that in mind but it\u0027d be good I don\u0027t know how technically eases this for me to go but if it\u0027s possible to get somebody you know you do not have to rearrange the remote presenter mode because when you have a real remote presenter then you actually have both the remote cue and the remote presenter simultaneously as opposed to the remote presenter just being the person who\u0027s at the front of the queue and often you know as a chair you don\u0027t realize for the last minute oh hey this person isn\u0027t here or they miss their flight or whatever we need to have somebody remote present right away and while the cube thing works it would be nicer if we could get a you know through a way to turn something into a real remote presenter at the last minute if you I mean I will say having done this a few times mideco tries pretty hard to accommodate and so they will if you get a last-minute one they\u0027ll try to work with you just as a side note the what go ahead "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:49",
    "text": "Ben Ben Caidic yeah I have also noted that and I\u0027ve also noted times where we discovered there\u0027s gonna be a remote presenter like during the session you know to talks later and Morocco gets them set up like during the session but I was sort of you brainstorming on the fly perhaps Media Co could like give a presenter like backup URL just to the chairs and the chairs could have that handy to send to descendant and remote people oh that\u0027s a good idea I would encourage people to use the remote presenter thing because the other thing it does I\u0027ve used I mean uh it\u0027s happened both ways and in my working group and I\u0027ll have to say that if it\u0027s planned in advance then then there\u0027s an opportunity for testing and all sorts of other things which generally leads to a better result so any other questions Oh with that we and six minutes early thank you all have a good day [Music] you "
  }
]