[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign let's get started here this is sedate if you intended to be someplace else you're very welcome here [Music] let's see here suddenly let me try this here that's all right yeah yeah okay let's try this again thank you that looks good okay uh the usual note well um it's a small enough type that um it'll be hard to read but it's something that you probably are aware of from every other working group that you've been to so I won't spend a lot of time on that uh there's some basic meeting tips here if this is your first time there is uh in the uh ietf 115 agenda there is a link to our working group and uh it has on the right hand side a link to the on-site tool um that's the one you should probably use uh that also does the job of automatically signing the blue sheets for you and we do have some remote"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "participants I see so that's great um we'll make sure and keep an eye on the queue as we go along uh in terms of resources for this ietf meeting uh the agenda is on data tracker uh meet echo of course is what you're using to participate um uh there is zulup we've sort of moved to zulup as the uh instant mesh messaging Tool uh and there's of course uh the chat room associated with meet Echo and we'll keep an eye on that as well um in terms of resources um here are the usual ones uh Braun is going to start putting notes uh in the notepad that's great the mailing list is right there um enough about that here's our agenda this is the simplest agenda that we could possibly have uh we're basically here to see whether or not we've made enough progress on the sedate draft and Karsten will take us through that and we'll see if there are any remaining outstanding issues otherwise Braun and I uh be doing an assessment um we're supposed to do it tomorrow as a matter of fact if we need it we can talk about the liaison that we have to tc1454 I'm not sure we need that but we can decide as we go along and so with that uh we come to the end of my prepared remarks and um we're going to give the presentation to Kirsten let's see here there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "and I can run the slides for you or okay you can use that thing I think you might be able to use that oh well that's impossible as it turns out yeah okay thank you so this is a pretty illustrious Community today but we will go on YouTube so it's worth doing this so this is really the only slide I uh need to show um because we are pretty much done and the document has converged surprisingly we found a problem with the document that we were supposed to build on we go into some more details and added a fix to that through the document even though we promised that we were not going to touch our best documents so that's really the interesting part today and so we also found out that it is really hard to discuss this problem next slide so uh just to remind everyone what RFC 3339 is this is essentially described by this data model here an RC 5339 date has a UTC time and optionally a local office that's the whole data content of the thing and uh well that was defined around the year 2000 essentially the profile of ISO 8601 that we all love dearly so they used actually the 1988 version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "for that one could argue that they didn't quite provide it right but that's maybe not that important there was a 2000 version of 8601 and that's even cited by 239 so let's uh think about that so um I'm noticing that uh when you look at the characters you don't necessarily see a UDC time so when there is a local offset the UTC time is encoded based on that local offset but the data model view of of this data is that you always have a UTC time and you actually have a local offset so uh there are no floating times or anything like that no calendaring times this is just a time stamp on the udg UTC time scale uh plus optionally the local offset a hint and the reason why that that is given for using the Oracle offset is that this is often useful information so how do you indicate that you are not providing a local offset when you're generating and Roc 339 timestamp you use negative zero as your local offset so that is going to be important in the next issue besides things like this so what's the date actually does is extending 359 timestamps um so you can add additional hints just like the local offset hinge is a hinge there are other hints and in particular there is a way to indicate the time zone so the local offset only tells you how"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "many hours you are west or east of UTC why the time zone actually tells you which political construct uh you are referencing to to arrive at that local offset so for instance Europe Berlin right now is plus one uh but uh in summer it's plus two so uh the the time zone information is a hint that is added but it doesn't change the uh content which is still a UDC timestamp we also have ways to add keys for other options and as an example we put in the calendar type which again is a hinge and not changing the base semantics of the timestamp and we can even identify options as critical as much must understand um I we don't have an example for that in in the document right now but that's easy to see how that would work okay so this is all really not very complicated it's not rocket science and our main job was to make sure that this works well with various existing and uh in standardization interfaces to timestamp libraries that we want to make sure people can continue to use next slide so yeah this should be my last slide unfortunately next slide it's not quite as simple next slide um so the the problem is that roc-339 defines the ISO 8601z"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "suffix and the plus zero zero colon zero zero as synonyms for a local offset hinge of zero minutes so you are on UTC but you are not only on UTC this is the you're telling the recipient that uh for instance the person who generated this timestamp actually uses the local offset to convert the UTC time into their local uh thinking and to opt out of giving that information again we have minus zero zero colon zero zero that means no local offset a given and this minus zero zero zero zero was essentially imported from RFC 822 or actually to a22 which is the first version of the email standards that actually uh documents this so in uh email date may contain this minus zero zero colon zero zero and that is actually in use it's not like uh 30 of the mails so how have that I did a quick check on a small repository of emails million or so um I had and I found like 0.3 percent I don't remember the number but it was uh not nothing but it also wasn't an overwhelming majority of emails using that but at least that's in use so it's good that that email has that so people can for instance indicate that this email originated from a place that simply has no idea what the the user who was ultimately responsible for the email being generated users as their local offset now uh the RLC 5339 implementations actually uh generally don't deal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "with minus zero zero colon zero zero uh some of them actually follow the the words of iso 8601 and don't allow that that is actually rare but most never generate this because 8601 in this 2000 version not in in its 1988 version but in its 2000 version suddenly started to disallow minus zero zero colon zero zero so since people who write JavaScript implementations or other programming language implementations often look at isil standards in parallel to the the profiles we generate here they decided not to write that number so in practice they wouldn't have a way to actually indicate no local offset being given but the reality is that all implementations that don't deal in time zone offsets so what would really have to use this minus0000 all those implementations use Z as the suffix because that's short and other implementations that actually do have the information uh have tended to give Zed as the indication that no local offset has been given and plus zero zero colon zero zero as the local offset 0. so we have uh an interoperability problem between implementations that Implement through this resign and implementations that Implement what other implementations Implement what the majority of implementations out there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "Implement so this is based on a survey that Justin Grant did then which can we find in one of the issues of the sea date Repository so next slide what do we do about that um well there is a the whole issue of handling conflicts for instance between time zone information and uh information that is uh in the the original uh RC 539 um I think we have that correctly uh covered so we know how to handle that except for the problem on the previous slide next slide and uh the the result that didn't take oh uh the result is that we essentially now have two problems uh there are two options we can ignore the problem feign ignorance and just add our our optional suffixes and act as if nobody uh uh nothing will miss oh that's something very good or we can do the right thing and uh the the discussion on the list went into preferably doing the right thing next slide and uh so the radical proposal is that we actually start to interpret Z as minus zero zero zero zero so that means no local offset is implied so if you want to imply a local offset of British winter time then you write plus zero zero colon zero zero um so this happens to mirror the consensus in the implementations so this would essentially just be adjusting the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "specification uh to what the implementations do but it goes outside the charter of sedate because we were not supposed to actually modify uh 539 so uh we thought maybe we need a little bit of discussion beyond the sedate working group Next slide so I sent an email about a month ago two five working groups or actually art is not a working Uber artist the discussion list of the area to which sedate belongs to in the ietf applications in real time and the forwarding of sedate sibo and JP and tick tock now the reason that sibo ntp and Tick Tock are on there is that they are also doing something with time and they probably need to know what's going on now Tick Tock is is kind of closing right now so this this maybe wasn't that necessary ntp is uh in the process of essentially making up their mind of what should be an ntp version 5 and there is actually some some discussion about having a time zone aware version of ntp and to be normally isn't just about UTC so they they wouldn't care um but that may influence their discussion so I thought it might be good to include them uh sibo has a Time tag which is a binary data structure that is supposed to be compatible with other representations of time so of course it should provide a binary version of the sedate extensions which it does and of course see date because we detected the problem next slide now it turns out when you bring up this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "problem problem then people start first of all discussing whether we should be referencing ISO 8601 at all which is not irrelevant to this working group because that was a decision done by 539 but still there was a lot of discussion in the thread about whether we should reference non-free uh standards normative okay irrelevant there also was a discussion about the need for floating time so floating times are different from the the Z times that I have been talking about these are times where you don't know what the local offset is but also don't know how the the time you're looking at uh relates to UTC so the only thing in a floating time is you know it's 1400 um afternoon but you you don't know uh what that means in UTC and that's strictly outside of the scope of this work group because we started with the UTC time uh representation 539 so yeah it's an interesting discussion uh but uh maybe not that relevant there also was a discussion about sub manage time zone offset so uh the Netherlands in 1923 had a time zone offset from Germany that was something something plus 23 seconds um yeah that's certainly interesting but it's not something that that really impacts uh date and time implementations that we use today so nobody has submitted time zone offered offsets in use for things that happen to to matter for Commerce so we can ignore that as well then people brought up calendaring"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "issues what if I do a if I plan a meeting next year uh in the summer and say well it's supposed to be 1400 afternoon and uh then my government goes ahead and finally implements the decision to get rid of daylight savings time or summertime uh yeah then what happens to my meeting the UTC timestamp I might have computed for that meeting it's no longer going to be right so I will see 53.90 really wasn't the right standard to represent uh that in any case so this is about calendaring times and not about time stamping uh information in a way that is unambiguely referenced to uh UDC so again relevant and of course you can then from there go into tangents on unstable politicians and times or definitions and yes that has happened in this thread so so after reading the whole thread I'm none the wiser except maybe the fact that these five things came up and not really uh criticism of making the change or making the change that that we are intending to make here shows me that this isn't really big problem apparently so next slide so my recommendation would be to consider the discussion done at this point check with the every director and with the ADHD in general whether we can go beyond our Charter which probably means we will have to change our charger to actually fix Roc 539 in this context"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "which by the way I think is a useful outcome so aligning our documentation of how a timestamp implementation should work with what we people are actually doing out there is a useful thing to do completely independent of our Charter of adding additional hints to these timestamps so this is where we are and I was hoping to actually use uh the time here to get at least an in-room conclusion of this again we have to verify anything on the mailing lists uh that we do in the ietf and we have to talk with the ad I don't think there is an ID in the room there's an ID online oh good so let's open the discussion in ritual go ahead Audra all right you seem to be on mute here it doesn't seem to have a sound switched on yeah first of all can you turn your audio on hello does that work hello this is excellent well I I hate technology okay uh well apologies I I had one question uh maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "not just for Carson but for the entire room uh when we were starting out with this work uh sort of pre-sedate chartering and everything there were Ambitions initially to uh sort of revamp three to three nine right there were a few other things like uh you know extended years and so on that that could be done back then uh all of those faced a lot of resistance uh and and in the end uh we decided to go with this sort of more conservative approach of leaving 389 as is uh what I'm trying to say here is that I while I'm completely with you that uh you know the I'm sorry uh that the charter sort of restricts us I I do have to remind that there is a reason why the charter is explicit on this thing so uh if we decide to sort of uh you know recharge it today and and move ahead with with this I hope that we can reach a conclusion as a working group that the change we're talking about here does warrant uh sort of that change and and uh that we wouldn't receive further pushback uh yeah that that's all okay I think um uh I understand that Francisco's in the queue um go ahead Francesca let's see if this works well it does work okay great yes I was going to say it was just said that [Laughter]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "that's our youngest engineer kill it let's train again sorry about that as you can hear I'm Not Alone um I was going to say that yes this this starter was crafted with a lot of attention and um and it was a very um it was a compromise to get to to to this text so any modification to this Charter will require a lot of work to get consensus from the community and um while I understand that fixing things is um it's obviously very appealing but we need to have a community consensus that uh agreement on what we're fixing and the scope and the use case and everything so it's not as simple as saying let's extend the charter and um and get this done and I we are I see 17 people in the meeting today I know that this meeting collided with media man uh media man and so I think that a big part of the uh the resistance that was there during the initial Charter discussion uh people were not are not present right now so um I'm just catching up with the thread I don't know if this was discussed in the mailing list uh but I think that we should have a consensus to to do any sort of retartering and then if there is consensus of course I will support it and bring it to the history and move forward with it but the first thing is you know getting consensus in the community"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "yeah can I quickly reply to that um so the the purpose of the October 4th uh mayor was to find out whether there would be such resistance of course I don't know that everybody who would be resisting this is on the art mailing list or actually reads this or actually replies to what they read so this is hard to assess but I was surprised that there were no uh there was no discussion uh that really questioned what we were trying to do there were some misunderstandings of what we were trying to do so I think these were corrected um but once they were I think yeah people just went off those five targets that I listed so my assessment is that uh we don't have a strong opposition against that um but yeah I'm not sure in the pay grade to actually make this assessment before before I call on Brian here let me use Chair say that I think we need to be very clear that we're talking about two things right we have an existing sedate document that um are the working that the working group has and that's currently in last claw and then there is this problem which certainly the working group could document um yeah right right um and use that documentation as a mechanism to support the ad as a background to re-chartering so I I guess what I'm thinking here is that the working group has two tasks excuse me number one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "decision about the existing document and number two um a revision 3339 bits or whatever we want to call that so Brian go ahead sorry to interrupt that's okay thank you um my memory of the discussion to start off with about changing RSC 3339 was that people didn't want anything which would make the wire format backwards incompatible in any way that was the concern if we did something that meant that existing passes broke the nice thing about this change is all we are doing is saying You must not generate one particular form so we're not adding anything that will break existing parsers I think that's why there hasn't been any pushback my suggestion without any chair hats on is that this document published saying must not generate that particular form and that we've identified this problem with RSA 3309 and then ignore that for this document we publish this document and then we asked to reach out with a specific task of just fixing that one thing with 3339 and nothing else I think there will be no difficulty getting consensus on that change uh thanks Brian I I wonder not to put you on the spot Francesca but if you have any reaction to that as a path forward it was rude of me to put you on the spot okay she just might have noise noisy shoot locally we don't hear Francesca yeah we still can't hear you let's see now um it's fine yep great so yeah my preference would also be to finish the current work and then um focus on possible retardering um but again I'm still catching up so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "my opinion might change after looking into the details of the mail thread and yeah so maybe I should remind people that the actual approach that is in the current document is not to do a 639 base I don't see a reason to do that um but to actually just provide an update to a 639 so the RFC resulting from this process would have a tag on it which says it updates the three nine and the metadata for 339 would say this is updated by the current document and to the the uh only update here would be juggling these three uh time zone excuse me local offset uh hence Z plus zero and minus uh zero so I know that uh we are we have an urgent problem in our hands that in about 8 000 years this will no longer work uh but maybe we have a little bit more time to fix that uh part and the the intention here was to make sure that we have a common format for libraries like temporal and the JavaScript support that is being put in by ecmar tc39 and so on that provides a common basis for the syntax extension that that people need foreign okay well with a lot of people who are participating remotely let me take a moment here and see if there are any other comments uh one thing is that if you do go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "and fix RFC 3339 to to take the terminology that Customs using we should probably think about um uh early Ace with isil as well yeah and we we also talk to other people like tc39 um we currently have informal contacts into that organization that's really the reason why we have even detected this problem because because we have exercised these informal contracts yeah I mean the the um the iso committee is is sort of wrapping up I mean I got into it very late they'd already almost finished there's a couple of points that I was going to raise about their last minute decisions but um if we put together a message I can always um pass it across and see what happens yeah no maybe also should point out that what we are fixing here is not things that we have imported from 8601 but what we're fixing is our own interpretation of there being a difference between two representations that mean the same thing in 8601 and adding a third one that is not supported by 8601 so from from the point of view of tc154 uh we are getting more compliance which probably they should be like yeah I don't know that it's something that affects the h601"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "okay any other comments or questions let me sum up what I think I've heard this is dangerous I think first of all uh the existing sedate document is in last call that last call ends tomorrow I haven't heard at our meeting today any objections to moving that document forward and so I'm going to just stop for a moment and listen if there are any last minute objections okay that part's good second thing I've heard is that perhaps and this is my interpretation of what I've heard the chair should work with the ad the responsible ad to start the discussion about a very conservative re-chartering for sedate to take care of the problem in 3339 emphasizing what the cause of the problem is what the solution to the problem proposed is what the use cases are and and basically maybe even uh go to the list with um proposed Charter text so that's the second thing I've heard the third thing I've heard is that if we do that we should communicate to ISO that number one we found the problem it's our Pro it's a problem that's associated with us it's not our interpretation of of the Isis standard and but we should in the spirit of liaising with other standards organizations we should communicate that to them those are the three things I've heard have I missed anything missed anything Carson is nodding his head okay I feel like we have consensus all right so what you can expect next is uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "working group working group last call ends tomorrow um and at that point the chairs will have a conversation uh the second thing is that the chairs will have a conversation with Francesca to talk about um the process of extending or changing the charter in this conservative way uh and then we can start the work on moving that forward uh this winter long before we go to Japan that's what I'd like to do is that if we are going to pursue revising the charter I'd like to have that process underway before Yokohama does that seem reasonable okay I've got nods of heads in the room and I hear no objections from the people participating remotely let me just check the chat to make sure that I'm not okay all right thank you Carson I appreciate it the chair is appreciated [Music] we're done here all right let me uh let me check with the remote participants and the people in the room is there any other business for sedate for today going once going twice thank you and look for us on the mailing list you should see perhaps still this week some correspondents from the chairs to the mailing list and once again thanks to all the people who participated both remotely and in the room this session is closed thanks for attending remotely Francesca being back welcome back yeah welcome back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "thank you and sorry about the creams they're not the one to participate as well it's not a problem okay are you you're here all week yes right we've got the uh Prince of emails in on Thursday night if you want to join a bunch of email people oh I would but I've got another bunch of people who have spoken for me all good just checking on that I might send a lot for people to sign up all right I'll be open is next and yeah"
  }
]
