[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] yeah [Music] okay we are going to start so hello everyone this is the cozy working group meeting if you are expecting some other meeting you\u0027re not at the right place so do not well if you have not read it so far please read it before commenting or saying anything to the mic and if you have any questions do not hesitate to ask the chairs or anyone else okay so the agenda for today is first the administrative Ian\u0027s we have passed the blue sheets the minutes will be taken I think Roman will be taking the minutes first thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:24",
    "text": "and Francesca will be our JavaScript Thank You Francesca so we will proceed with the document status then continue with web o tenth and then we\u0027ll have some discussion about additional core items that have been requested and whether there are some other algorithm that people would like to have and then we have some open mic time is there an impassioned of the agenda okay thank you so Jim so this is probably I can only take that long so we\u0027ll start with a cozy structured document next please so we finished working group last call in September I did actually the edits to it and of oast and da conversion oh six updated and when I went back to double-check earlier this month I figured out that the data tracker had the wrong version and at a point where it actually had the didn\u0027t have a date that I updated it in so I\u0027m not too sure what happened on the data driver that I have a local version which has one additional set of issues that came from Lawrence where I have harmonized out the difference between headers headers parameters in parameter to make sure that they all are consistent so header by itself is no longer exists it no longer exists is either headed of parameters for things which are header attributes in the cozy stuff and parameter where it actually is referring to a different type of parameter such as a parameter in and the the NH in a mime message so as far as I know the next thing on the list for this document is for the shepherd to get assigned a shepherd to actually do the shepherd right up and push the button any questions any questions from the room nope I think we can go on then okay next please oh um the Interop status is basically the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:26",
    "text": "as it was at the last meeting I\u0027ve been making wine I haven\u0027t been looking at trying to get any air up work done still need some idea of what the iesg thinks it wants Nord er to assess whether or not we actually have Interop but once we get that we I can do some sort of write up and be fine next ok the cosy algorithms draft next so this document went through last call at the same time as the structured document so it finished we have one at there\u0027s one open issue that is in the current version of the document boat needs to be ratified by the working group that it actually is what it wants to be and then the the standard Shepherd right up and go to the area director for publishing next so the one issue that is still open and needs to be dealt with is there was a request from the chair is that we move the capabilities work from the group ah score documents into this document and part of that means that I was going to end up making a more general purpose than than what they were in just that document so I follow the same basic structure that they had where they had a set of capabilities based on the algorithm and a set of capabilities based on the key I thought and at one point about combining them but I thought that was probably gonna be more trouble than it was actually worth in the long run so the algorithms based capabilities will always start with a key type if there is actually a key that is used by that so for example a hash algorithm would not have the key type in there because there\u0027s no actual key used by the algorithm you also have the ability to put capabilities which are not represented by parameters in in the headers in there so one example of that is what I have now for the hacks based signatures is I actually have I was actually in in the Hat and it and the key structure but the hash which the key was based on even though that\u0027s actually not a parameter that shows up in the the cozy message itself because it is actually encoded into the key data there\u0027s also the key based capabilities again they always start with a key type because without knowing that key type you don\u0027t know for sure what the capabilities are supposed to be in that key the assumption for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "algorithms is the algorithm identifier will always be transported someplace else but it may be that we want to actually put that into the into the capability structure as well the keys then might start with the key type and then have parameters which are described information about the keys such as the curve or the hash for this or the hash based signatures algorithm I attempted to minimize things so that there wasn\u0027t overlap between the two of them so in the aw score and the group ah score stuff they had think of the curve both in as per as a parameter for the algorithm as a parameter for the key and my assumption is they\u0027re gonna tend to actually be show up in pairs or in combinations so that you only need to specify things once in general the one exception that is going to be is the key type and I\u0027ve got a little bit of stuff here for how you might do a negotiation structure none of that is actually in the dock itself it is just here for people to look at to see how I was thinking about it might be used but I\u0027m not making a recommendation when we get the other on that next please so should I ask questions now or it\u0027s not a second so I got a set of feedback from Francisco earlier this week I have made a pull request which contains responses to that and there\u0027s a couple more things that she\u0027s commented on since then and if I need to make sure that people want to put the hash algorithm from in in the hash signatures capabilities it could either be in there or it could not be in there either way probably it will work I don\u0027t know there\u0027s any other capabilities that should be put into that as well I don\u0027t know if Russ is in the room to comment on that and once we\u0027ve done all that verification I\u0027ve done the updates and I\u0027ll issue a new document okay questions comments Francesca so can you go back to the previous line so as it is defined right now for the algorithms the capability define it\u0027s only the key type that goes with that algorithm so you were saying that you do not want to duplicate that information right yes yeah but in the future you could have a key type and additional capabilities if the capabilities of the key type are not enough for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "algorithm if there is something else or different if there were other things that were algorithm based rather than than key based yes at that point then I\u0027m a bit confused if you would because in this case that we have defined right now then you would just go and look at what are the cover your disease of the key and you would use that for the rhythm and if we define something that is different I don\u0027t know if these are additional ones or would replace the one for the key type they would be additional ones for example if you did the diffie-hellman key agreement once right now we basically pack everything together into one identifier so that identifier describes not only whether you\u0027re doing a femoral static but whether you\u0027re the fact that using HK DF for the key derivation function the fact that you\u0027re doing AES 128 for the key rap and the fact that using a particular structure for the context one could envision in the future that you might define a diffie-hellman key where those are all actually header parameters and in that case they would go in the algorithm based capabilities because that is the set of things that you expect to see yes that works for me I think and for the record I review the pull request and I\u0027m fine with with that so once that\u0027s merged I\u0027m happy with it do you want any other review of the pull requests before merging gym or I\u0027m perfectly willing to merge and in the node out and give people a day or two to look at it before by the Shepherd review is being written up that that makes sense to me any any comments here on that nope yep let\u0027s go ahead and merge merge and publish a revision at your convenience then okay I can do that next please Jim just yes hash algorithms document next please [Music] this document has gone to working group last call that finished on September 24th I have not gone through this document to put in the capabilities definitions but they\u0027re pretty simple since is just plain hash algorithms "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:27",
    "text": "they\u0027re all going to be empty empty array either on DME because there\u0027s not Noth nothing relevant milkie\u0027s so I\u0027m planning to do that modifications and publish that basically at the same time the algorithm document gets updated so by tomorrow at lunch your time and then if that document should be ready for a final review and for the Shepherd right it to be done any questions about that and there was an email from my boss I\u0027m gonna deal with that male and the new algorithm and the additional algorithms okay next okay i\u0027ve said said that one could do some funky things with shake i don\u0027t actually plan to the x.509 certificates draft next right next I have thoughts of this job document have gone through working group last call but when I went through and looks through the mail I couldn\u0027t actually find that it was ever started all the issues which I received an email or in the database have been addressed and I believe that document is currently up to date so I believe we should be ready to actually start to working group last call on that document yes there was only one comment that there was something like open questions or issues in the document that you could turn off and then we can start the working group Lascaux I maybe I forgot to say this explicitly sorry about that I think you well we we verified that we were ready for working group last fall I think you just forgot to actually start it okay next actually I think that\u0027s the end um oh okay I don\u0027t know why I left that in there okay it\u0027s ready for working with last of all the early code appointments assignments are already done I just didn\u0027t see that slide when I was reading through it next okay so that\u0027s the end of that set of presentations so we\u0027re running a lot we\u0027re actually running significantly ahead the next presenter was supposed to be Mike Jones he\u0027s on his way over so Jim if you wanted to cover the more algorithms now I think that would give Mike some time okay I have actually pushed up a more algorithms document next it contains one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:28",
    "text": "algorithm right now and that\u0027s the AES padded key wrap algorithm it is currently defined only as a key wrap algorithm at the point where I talked to Russ he wanted it to be both a here algorithm and a content encryption algorithm the step this the structure document however has a statement that says every content encryption algorithm must be an AEA D algorithm padded key rap is not an AEA D algorithm it is only an eight yoga rhythm so if I was there I\u0027d be talking to Russ and saying do you really need it for content encryption or is he raps efficient and Jim this is Russ everything\u0027s fine okay [Laughter] okay next so we got a piece of mail today from Bob Moskowitz I don\u0027t remember it went to the list or if it just went to the chairs myself saying that he thinks we should add the new C HC Shaykh algorithms to the set of algorithms which we have I don\u0027t have any problems with that I don\u0027t have any other algorithms at this point in time to add unless people want to come up and say I want this algorithm so I don\u0027t you know if we need to have a charter change to do this draft or not I don\u0027t think so so if the chairs wished to I believe they could start a an adoption call in this document right we will we\u0027ll double check with our responsible ad to verify that it it doesn\u0027t require recharging and then we\u0027ll get that started once we\u0027ve had that conversation that should be able to happen this week okay I think that\u0027s the end of my slide deck it is all right and just in time [Music] okay all right mr. Jones thank you all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:31",
    "text": "I\u0027m here to give three slides which are a status update about our draft defining the identifiers used by algorithms that were requested that we work on from the w3c web authentication working group which is working on its second PR the second version of the standard you just saw on my slides by mistake so what\u0027s happened since we last met our heroes in Montreal we\u0027ve had a working group last call with substantive and useful reviews by many parties including JC Jones and Kevin Jacobs of Mozilla our own Jim shod Neo Madden and Ben Caidic I am the co-authors addressed those working group last call reviews replying to all the comments received on our public mailing list I will note that no normative changes to the document resulted and per the ITF process I think the next question to the chairs is is it now time for a Shepherd review to progress the document and as a bonus question do we know who the Shepherd might be so yes I can write the Shepherd review maybe Jim wants to say something all right thank you are there any questions from the floor about the dog bites yes yes as far as I\u0027m concerned I still have one concern that is outstanding from your document from the from my last call I believe you need to describe why the approach of assigning points was was used it doesn\u0027t need to be very long it\u0027s just I\u0027ve just wanted in the document telling me is not sufficient okay I\u0027m perfectly willing to do that that issue for those of you who may not have followed everything on the list and Jim correct my description if you would like is that for both Jose and Jose we defined an algorithm identifier whose meaning is ECDSA signature with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:34",
    "text": "the sec P 256 K one curve and the P R in the sha-256 hash algorithm this is as it\u0027s used in practice by both jose implementations and web authentication which uses the Kozai algorithm identifier in Jim\u0027s useful working group last review comments he had asked well why don\u0027t you just use the existing Jose algorithm identifier for ECDSA and part of the answer is to be consistent with Jose where in each case the algorithm identifier is specific to a serve so that when you look at the algorithm identify er you have a complete description of what you\u0027re doing I and several others that I talked to were unaware that because they didn\u0027t follow that route but that doesn\u0027t mean that for new algorithms we can\u0027t do that and shouldn\u0027t do it and so in part Jim had also asked a question in review in his review how do you know if somebody has changed the curve on the key that you\u0027re presented and the good news is that if you have this because a algorithm identifier that is key and or that is curved and hash specific you can tell if somebody\u0027s changed it if you\u0027re just using a general ECDSA algorithm identifier it\u0027s amenable to attacks where you can change the curve and still get the person to perform the computation Mike I\u0027m glad to say that in the document that more or less that\u0027s actually what I want to hear in the document suppose I were to take AP 256 key and change the the curve to the 2 to the K algorithm and hands you a message sign with a kit with the K algorithm and that key how can you tell that I changed the that would be what used to said as what caps that problem would not catch that problem so I think because there\u0027s a generic ECDSA algorithm identify are already in COEs a the protections only operate in one direction that if you\u0027re using SEC P 256 K 1 and it\u0027s corresponding algorithm identifier you can be assured that nobody can change the curve to P 256 and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:38",
    "text": "get away with it no no I went the other direction I started with I started with the k1 signature I mean the other direction is I start with a p2 5/6 signature and I take a k1 key and change the algorithm at the curve identifier I mean if it works in both the attack works in both directions right and I guess my background question is given that Hosea\u0027s that exists today uses this generic algorithm identifier am i right that there\u0027s no protection against changing the curve and feeding it to the algorithm because the algorithm is designed to take all comers no if you actually do the work of verifying that the curve that the point you have is on the curve that you were given that is how you prevent that problem ok I was taking that as a given as something you always have to do and partly in response to your review I added text to the draft about verification of the points being on the curve in fact you supplied the text yes yeah but when you basically said to start with is what I would like to see in the document I\u0027m fine with that thank you all right so once once we have that revision we will have shepard picked out and we\u0027ll move that along all right thank you thank you Mike and it\u0027s not that I don\u0027t love you but they scheduled Olaf at the same time yeah we were basically we thought we\u0027d all be wrapped up and so I am going to return there thank you thank you so that was everything we had in our agenda for today I think the only other thing to note is the the draft ITF cozy hash sig document is currently in is G evaluation it\u0027s tell chat is I believe the first tell chat after after this this meeting week so hopefully we\u0027ll be progressing all the way to putting one our first document into the RFC editor queue here soon so this is the open mic time if there\u0027s anything anybody wants to bring up this is this is your chance if you want to continue on your email then that\u0027s fine too [Music] all right well then we\u0027ll call this a wrap thank you everyone blue sheets make sure you\u0027ve signed them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:39",
    "text": "and otherwise enjoy the rest of your day [Music] "
  }
]