[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "foreign might not get Christian today depending on timing of child care and stuff thank you and give it a couple more minutes we only have four of us so far foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "foreign let's go ahead and get started so welcome to the last seaboar call before the ietf 117 session um let me hit the agenda here so I guess there's uh since I put the time tag thing on uh the agenda after starting to discuss it with Karsten we've sorted that out it was already decided a while ago and it just sort of hung so Carson just posted a couple of updates to to time tag and I will process it and uh and send it off to the iesg so I don't think we need any further discussion on that does anybody want to say something all right so that's going to the iesg as standards track rather than informational now okay um pact Karsten wanna say anything but I was trying to say something about uh time tag so I'm just wondering whether we will have a picky ad which reminds us that after changing the target status we have to do another working class code well yeah I I don't think we do I I think we have working group consensus on the status change but if you would like to if you would like me to do another working group last call I will be happy to so what do you think yeah I think we can do this in parallel with other things we need to do before submitting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um right doing the write-up and so on so I think it's time weight spent and I would probably do it to make it a one week uh call because no there's no reason to have a two weeks so people can look at the last changes people can look at the status change and so if we don't get anything we we are really clean happy to do that and um and I will I will do that after this call good thank you um so uh yeah Marco that's uh that last exchange was for time tag uh so I'm gonna I'm gonna move those so for pact um anything to say constant yeah pretty much what what the um agenda says um so this is now well hung as you would say about the stick um and um I think that we have been waiting for um implementations and we haven't got a lot of feedback from from implementers probably because there are still things um that might change so people are not implementing it and we have the usual uh vicious cycle here um so um we still have a couple of things to do and one of those is actually implementing what we said in the discussions that we would simplify the table set up even more um so um we have a stable part of of the document that defines the the table reference tags and we have part we have been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "fuzzing around a bit with the table set up and by by putting one table set up tank there that makes the whole thing immediately usable but not necessarily exactly what you want for a specific application I think we would be doing the right thing so I think further simplifying that um to to do parallel setup of the the shared an argument uh tables would would make it easier for people to write basic uh Packers so I think that that would be a good thing to do and um I hope to have the the text for that done before the weekend and I hope also if an implementation of that so that there is the sibo packed gem which is not the best packer in the world but it can be used to play around um with the format so that my hope would be to to have a document um that we can look at in the implementation we can look at before uh the the cutoff and if there's any last minute change we can do even that now the question is after having um modified the document a lot since the the uh 12 months ago working with Roscoe uh this actually may really be a candidate for another working plus call yeah I certainly think that's the case um so you'll let me know when you when it's when it's ready or is it ready now well again I want to submit another version in the next couple of games and then we should be ready for rangular score okay okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "any discussion about that anybody have anything to say okay um I I had missed the last call but I saw in the notes that there was some discussion about cddl 2.0 is there any discussion of that that we need to have this time before the session coming up the only new thing right now is that we now have working group documents on these and my plan is to get the document that has little changes and and Corrections in particular erratic Corrections um get this done very soon and then do the other two documents I think mostly in sequence because we can do the control operators pretty independently from the actual module structure so I think we we have three things we should be doing and we can do the the Errata plus clarifications stuff very quickly uh and the other two probably could benefit from some discussions and um San Francisco and and then in new versions of the documents okay any discussion of that now so I don't think any any of the people who actually wanted to use uh CDA 2 features are in the call right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "now um note that there are also some picture features that um have been implemented that don't necessarily need standardization so for instance the degenerate size uh are the the um mechanism that has been called flattening these are two functions of the city AC tool that actually can be very helpful when writing implementations but they don't need standardization in that sense because it's kind of obvious what these things are doing so that's another thing I would like to get feedback from but not necessarily for for changing a document huh all right um then I think we can move on unless somebody wants to say something else okay um is there anything else we need to talk about before we get to the 117 agenda okay hearing nothing let's move on to the 117 agenda which uh Christian posted here and he is on the call as he says listening with one ear uh so let's have a look at the agenda and um so I think we we can remove time tag from the agenda um as well I well let's leave it on the agenda for now and um I presume it will just get the brief one week last call and go to the iesg and we can take it off the agenda later yeah that so um basic basically that's actually brief overview of documents not discussed today this is those two are in there with two minutes total so this is basically just yeah one was saying that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "hey um by the way this is in the state that it is now yep okay and then we have a discussion of the working group documents um the literals and edn literals and the cddl2 documents and then the DNS seaboor and DC board stuff um so Karsten has some notes on this a Carson you want to talk about your notes um I don't have notes Cristiano's notes oh sorry CA notes not not CB notes I got the uh they got the initials wrong um yeah so does this does anybody think this agenda needs tweaking or are we set on the agenda looks good to me so on the double question mark the the idiom literals actually is the next one after effect on my list so um I have a grammar uh I still have to translate this to ABN f um but since I'm actually writing tools that help me in translating things to ABN f um I think that's uh that should be doable pretty quickly I just need to get around to it and that will most certainly happen before to get off okay okay so I think we have a set agenda for San Francisco any other discussion on that agenda okay hearing nothing is there anything else we need to talk about today or is this a very short call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um I'd like to briefly bring up one of my two note items uh on before from before that comes back to pact for which I've read up the notes and I think um it hasn't been mentioned we had some discussion about um Seaboard tax standing in for concrete other values which packages and is is the prime example of but I failed to find that discussion has that concluded is there anything more that we that we want or need to do on this or just continue discussion on this not not having found it I'm having a hard time um reading that Africa yeah it's probably a good idea to write this up I think we have had the discussion and um I think we have uh examined the the space between pure syntactic validity that that um is what what 70 49 did uh and and uh totally semantic validity which is really hard to get uh interoperable and we we have decided that we we want to go a little bit beyond pure synthetic uh validity but keeping in mind that doing too much of this can can be detrimental for interability so we you want to have a rather limited set of places where this stand in mechanism actually is operating and I think we need to write that up I think it's more more like uh uh memo to our future selves uh when we design new features that that we we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "started using this functionality I mean finishing pack kind of opens the the the can we are not going to put back the lid on on that one um but that we want to be careful uh about uh doing things that are too wired with it because that essentially Forks the the sibo ecosystem in many micro ecosystems some of which are doing extend ins for for something and some so which was something else and so on so to summarize this writing and informational document as a memo draw of future sales is probably the right thing to do sounds good to me and that would be information informally referenced by by Pact or would that just be like I don't think we will finish this before practice so Peck just charges ahead and is then the example that we will use in that other documents to say that that if we do something like this it will be uh uh infrastructural specification and we don't want every single tag definition to come ahead and say hi I'm I'm also kind of like a number so I can be used every a number can be used I think these are the two extremes we can have syntactic purely syntactic validity and totally opening the bundles makes sense I like the idea of memo to our future selves yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "any other discussion any other topics okay I guess we've kept this to 20 minutes great so we will see many of you in San Francisco [Music] and Christian is not planning to be in San Francisco but you are planning to be in Prague right yes same for me it'll be good to see you in Prague and see the rest of you uh whenever thanks for coming thank you thanks bud bye foreign"
  }
]
