[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "Thank you Thank you Thank you don't know what the thing is the same Rocking is important Hey, dude no Probably wouldn't hurt if you don't mind being around, but because I'm without my coach here. At the moment, I'm trying to figure out here. All right, we'll figure it out out figure out. All right, we'll figure it out. What am I missing here? And getting the room to display the slides I'm in the room Yeah, so you need Three options Manage slides. Yeah why can't you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "that's really kind of a question it's weird um kind of a question. It's weird. To be honest, I'm not very good with theater so. Yeah, this, they change this interface with it, but you know what's interesting is it's not showing me as chair That seems to be potentially a problem. That's the problem I'm not listed as is it's not showing me as chair. That seems to be a potentially a problem. That's the problem. I'm not listed as... Oh no, I am listed as the chair Yeah, so I think We may need a half I think so. I can't figure out how to get my slides up Thank you So welcome folks. Maybe there's another chair in the room who might be able to take a look at what's going on here. I don't seem to have the ability to access slides and display them So another working group chair who's already had their excuse experience. Suzanne, you were just in your last session I don't seem to be able to get access to my slides to make anything happen here Yes, and I am on my own laptop and I'm in the room but when I click on the three dots and it says manager slides and it won't let me do anything with the slides Yes it does show me in the participant list as being a chair I don't see them either on here I just have, well, one thing I can do is I can just load them directly off of my computer and instead of trying to do them here So I could do that We have contacted support. Yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "dance a bit for you as we started started is interesting for you as we started. Oh, you know, this is interesting. So I asked it to load up the slides again and so it loaded them up and put them in the list but it won't let me just display them. So I was able to put a duplicate copy out there, but I can't do anything with them Yeah, I do see two sets of beating materials. Yeah, I'm going to delete the second step set there I should have gone the chair training All right, well, we are at start time. We're actually four minutes past at this point. We do have a little bit of extra time here I don't know what to say about it finding slides. Oh, you can put a note in chat here for support, right? Is there? are no one in the room who's presented recently who is familiar with the latest Meetecho tools? Well hello everyone you're a responsible area director I'm unable to help you with the slides at this point, so I apologize for that. I'll familiarize myself with the latest version of MeDAGO tools Well, is that you? No Um I mean, all I can really do is speak to my slide deck for today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "You know, the first few slides are the obvious note well slides that are typically there Oh, here comes a deck. Somebody is putting a deck up. Not me though Okay, well, good. There's other obviously the note well is always the first slide that's up and oh, I should probably start by saying this is registration extensions working group I'm your co-chair, Antoine Bruchin is not able to be with us And as already just said, the area director has kind of come up here to see if he can help me out and at least help keep things going. So that's good Today we have two meetings this week. Today is just an hour-long meeting. It is essentially an administrative meeting, if you will. So we're going to go through our usual litany at looking at all of our documents and status of things We have one material discussion to be had, and then we have a two-hour session available to us on Wednesday when we will be having a half a dozen different technical discussions or a some more in-depth discussions about a number of the documents and topics that we have in front of us So the note, well, oh, there we go. I got it there's something. Okay, so that's the first note well document. This is simply a reminder that, you know, the IETF processes are public process and you really do need to, you know, decide for yourself what all of these guidelines and and regulations and rules about how we work, what their impact is on you The couple of notable ones here are just the process of general and of course the patent issues and being able to pay attention to IETF preferences in that kind of space The next slide is a note"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "really well to remind us that you know, this is a technical meeting and it should be about the substance of technology and we need to learn to focus on doing the work at hand. It is entirely inappropriate to in any way, you know reference, take advantage of or in any way, um, know, be inappropriate with other people And that just includes being harassing in any form. So please do take note of that We do have an ombuds team for anyone who has any issues like that. You're, you're welcome to, uh, this is my case you can certainly come to the chair if you have issues with anyone here but the ombuds team is available if you have any issues in that regard. And then the next slide a reminder about our code of conduct The usual treating everybody with respect, which we were just sort of covering speaking slowly, of course, and please do use the tool, either the in-room tool or the online tool for using the queue and getting up to speak. It has very helpful opportunity to clear display your name so we know who you are And just remember that we are working for the good overall internet. So thank you Agenda bashing, here is our list of things This is largely a pro forma agenda, but this is your opportunity to jump in if you want to add anything or change things here The last item on the list is the one extra discussion that we'll be having It is a material discussion, but it's really largely up process discussion, so we'll see how we feel about all that now we were one oh i'm sorry Do we have a note taker for this? session? I'd like to make sure that we have adequate notes for the meeting so what is would anyone be willing to volunteer to take notes in the on on-site tool?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "Yeah, and actually, that's on the next slide Sorry. That's OK okay. If we jump to welcome in introductions, go forward two slides to slide seven. For the notes, scribe we usually, what we've done in the past, is we do look if anybody wants to start in the notes that has our agenda usually preloaded in it. We're just looking if anyone's willing to capture action items in there and we will upload that or we commonly to notes that it has our agenda usually preloaded in it. We're just looking if anyone's willing to capture action items in there and we will upload that or we commonly take our minutes that from the automatic transcription and we upload that as our minutes from the meeting and that's what we submit for our notes But it's always appreciated if someone would like to volunteer to put action items and collect them and Rick, I want to do that. Okay. Well, thank you very much, Rick He often does that for us we owe we owe Rick a real round of uh you know, thank you for that He typically does that for us at these meetings. Okay next slide, please All right, so we've had actually quite a busy time since our last meeting in March Yay for us, we had quite a low level in terms of moving forward progress in the number of documents, but a number of things have come out of the RFC editor We now have our proposed standards for reverse search, which I've always hated that name, speaking personally Basically, what it does is the original ARDAP specification of course, has very limited searching abilities built into the protocol specification this really does give you the ability to search on arbitrary elements of parts of the objects and information that's in the register database and search on those, so that's a good thing And it's good that we put that forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "The next one, RC9537, is redaction. We're actually going to have some discussion about that in a little bit here, principal motivation for the material discussion No, we'll have a discussion on Wednesday about uh our adapt considerations And it really is driven by having implemented this. And so we're going to need to have some discussion about what to do about some of the elements of that document so hopefully you'll take some time to me sure to review that internet trap There's been quite some discussion on the list. So I'm going to assume that most people are prepared to deal with that And the last one, of course, yay the open ID for ARDAP. This document, for those who've been around a while will know that it's kind of been just been on a shelf for a long time for us. We've been waiting for a number of ARAP things to sort of come together and be done So it's just been kind of hanging out there. But it finally got to a place where all the other baseline pieces that we needed in ARAP are now done and so it seems appropriate now to be considering the space of authenticated queries in ARDAP So it was good to be able to get this done And so it seems appropriate now to be considering the space of authenticated queries in ARDAP. So it was good to be able to get this document out there. We submitted it you know, last time. And it's good that we're able to move that forward and have that be a proposed standard so that we be able to get this document out there, we submitted it, you know, last time, and it's good that we're able to move that forward and have that be a proposed standard so that work can begin on that space So, okay. Next slide. And now we'll look at the rc editor queue which we can quickly skip past because we have nothing at the moment in the RFC Editor Q Yay for us. Everything is out the door or on its way in. So skipping forward to slide 13, we have the slides that will be submitted to the IESG. We have one document which has now passed Working Group last call It's just waiting last time I checked, and I didn't check today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "So if it's been done today, I'm sorry I didn't notice. But the, no, I'm sorry, I'm confusing this with something else. This document is with the IESG. It's already there. And the area director and the document editor are just going through a couple of days here, and then it will continue on its way in the IESG through the publication process. So this is passed Working Group last call and past submission so it'll shortly appear in the IESG and hopefully this will move along quickly too. So next slide. Now we'll just look, this is where I find thought I was, the past working group last call document on slide 15. We do have the clarification, the clarifying work for the EPP document talking about deleting on host objects This is destined to be a BC This is the document which is just waiting for the document shepherd to prepare a write-up. And since we already approved it to move forward, once we have that we can submit it to the IESG and then it will be in ARI's hands here I'm zipping along kind of quickly here, but we're getting back on schedule Please, if anybody wants to say any anything or ask any questions about it getting back on schedule. Please, if anybody wants to say anything or ask any questions about any of this, please do jump up and say some something. Next, we have documents and working groups last call. There are two of them we put them out there together once we clarified where we were with the last document and got that out of working group last call We have the GOFeed document for ARDAP and extension and we now have some addition search features for RARs for being able to look up IP numbers in the registration data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "So these are they will be on the standards track. That is the goal still looking for folks to indicate their support on the mailing list. Normally we do a two-week work group last call, but if you've noticed, we may be these three weeks because they're covering this week So the last call won't close until next Friday But hopefully if we get enough indications of support or at least no objection that's always important too Please, you know, you don't have to indicate if you're necessarily going to do anything with these things, but we do like to know as many people as possible have at least read the documents and have no objection and believe they're consistent with what we do So please do take some time to do that and indicate your support on the mailing list or no objection Okay, moving on through the agenda and zipping through, we next have related work, and this is on the next slide here So this is something that I wanted to call out. I believe a number of people in here are already aware of this work but I do want to commend it to your attention if you haven't seen it and aren't aware of it has been a bough it is now a work group at this meeting they had a meeting two sessions ago today where they were looking at their requirements document and i put up here the problem statement on this slide just to make it visible for folks so that you can you can what's going on here This document, this work, one of the paths that this work could take is about a new resource record type that is one of the ways in which what's going on in this problem statement could be implemented. Now this has not been decided yet but at least it's one of those things that's out there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "And to the extent that that could happen, in fact, there's already a proposal for an EPP extension and an RDAF extension These are just documents that were, you know, made available and put out there and considered as part of looking at the requirements documents. So they have not even been adopted by this working group yet. There is an interesting question as to whether or not these provisioning documents would be in this working group or in Delag I don't personally have a real preference about that as long as whatever is done with these documents does include a close collaboration with us if they're not our documents. I think that that's fine. It's fairly straightforward what's going on here But there's a lot of work that'll go on here. We're not there yet where these things matter to us, but I wanted to make sure that Deleg is on the radar of the, of this working group And, you know, there, I know there's a few of us here who will be in that working group too as well as here. So, you know, we can watch and we'll see and as they get to a spot where they're going to be considering these other documents, if they get to there then we will have a discussion about that here too and jim reid please, I see you at the queue. Thanks, Jim As I've said many times before, there aren't enough gyms in this work group. Just to follow in from what you said there, I think just about everybody that's in this room was actually in Deleg but in case there are one or two that we aren't, sorry, in case one or two people weren't in the Deleg session earlier, the expectation is that the requirements draft should be done in time for the next IETF in Dublin. I'm not sure if we're actually going to hit that target, but that's the place at the moment. But there's no discussion at this day not sure if we're actually going to hit that target, but that's the plan at the moment. But there's no discussion at this stage yet about what the next stage of the protocol work is going to be And one of these ideas might be a new resource record type so we're not quite there yet there's a couple other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "potential scenarios being considered as well but it's still led to days thank you thank you for that And now we have david lawrence coming up. Hi, Tail. I actually just wanted to expand slightly on what Jim said. I wasn't sure whether he was going to cover it or not. So these proposals are based around the original, the ones that are up on the screen right now are based around the original idea that we'd have an RR, a new RR type that sat at the parent side of the delegation on the owner the owner name of the delegation there is another very actively discussed the proposal that the group is going to have to decide is whether it should in fact live in a special name under the delegation or under the parent zone. For example, example dot underbardeleg.com for the example.com delegation information So for those of you who are not having seen that discussion yet, I really encourage you you know, if you're interested in registry operations to go ahead and you know A, look up willem toorop talk about that from the Deleg Working Group and then, you know, participate with the ongoing discussion on the DD at IETF.org Mountain West. Yes, thank you for that clarification. You're talking about Willem gave the presentation in Deleg, right? I thought that was really interesting too I appreciated that I gave a short informational presentation in the working group two sessions ago because I was just observing that GTLD have their own set of issues with this work if it goes forward with this plan. Alternatively, if they go down the path that Willem was proposing, then that's much easier easier lift, if you will, and no direct concerns for ready to do operators on the GTLT side But EPP will still need some updating"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and probably also ARAP since you'll need to have a way to query what's going on. So I think this is important work Oh, and we also have Jim Gould in the Q's queue. So please, Jim, go ahead Yeah, I think you answered my question. Can you hear me by the way? Yep, you hear it. Yeah, good. Okay, yeah Yeah, I'm assuming that those drafts are you know, not ready for serious consideration yet We shouldn't try to do any form of implementation yet. Is that correct? I would say so and I'm getting nods in the room, so yes Okay, great. Thank you But for those who like using the data track, you might want to put them on your track list and watch to see if anything ever happens with them so those who like using the Datatracker, you might want to put them on your track list and watch to see if anything ever happens with them. So, okay. There are no other questions or comments about Delag and I'm not seeing anything Then we will move on, and we will get to the one material discussion that wanted to have today and this is about registration implementation required. There is actually a sepulch side deck. So if you're, maybe I should see if I can get slides here Maybe it's possible that I can do that now Yeah, see, I don't see that. Nope we'll figure. Yeah, okay, so as long as you're seeing the slides Yeah So for this discussion, Andy was kind enough. I guess he had started the discussion, and then he and I had chatted. He was kind enough to put together the set of slides They're intended to reflect a summary of the rather extended discussion that we had on the mailing list and then we will have an open discussion in the room and and I will moderate that to discussion and we'll see if we can get to a conclusion in all of this, at least in the room here, which will then have to take back to the mailing list and make sure everyone's engaged So I think with that, it's okay, right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "So go ahead, Andy. Next slide All right, so this is basically background on kind of how the IA okay, right? So go ahead, Andy. Next slide. All right, so this is basically background on kind of how the IETF works. So to go from proposed standard to full standard, you need two independent employees implementations. But generally, to go from a draft to proposed standard, you don't, right? However, a working group or the IESG can make exceptions to that rule so depending on the circumstances depending on well, actually I'm not really sure what the criteria is but working groups can can have certain standards and then the IESG has its own process for that so recently and if you follow the IETF discussion the can have certain standards and then the IESG has its own process for that so recently and if you follow the IETF discussion list there was a whole there's a thing about on mailmate some of that discussion kind of veered off into the things people shouldn't have been saying but essentially they put stuff in the charge they put something in the charter says, we want some commitment to implement. So that was their idea of trying to make sure that they were working on stuff that was going to be implemented, right? But in that discussion, it was also pointed out that CiderOps and IDR also do something kind of differently. So they have requirements for two different independent implementations with a published implementation report And so I believe in both of those work group that's not in their charter it's just on their wiki and it's just how the word group operates and that's very that's quite common how working group operates is something not or a lot of it's not actually in the charter. The charter is just really about what the scope of the working group is. Next slide So I put this on the mailing list and it's based basically, hey, let's look at what cider ops and what ID are doing and let's see if we can we can same thing. The proposal I put on the mailing list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "was actually to lower the bar from sidear ops and IDR And it was not to have two different implementations but to have one of both a client and a server. And so the original proposal I was actually targeting ARDAP, mostly because we seem to have a lot of contention there in the work group at least on the mail list and so it's also unlike EPP, serves three different constituents so you know the basic hope is that implementations help bring us together and that we can see how the things work versus just having esoteric argument on the mailing list And it also helps us avoid surprises So we recently had a surprise with one of the extensions and so the idea is is that hopefully we can we can avoid any surprises. We could include EPP in this, and I'm just throwing this out there I noticed that the latest EPP extension we have the EPP TTL draft, which is now past working group last call, actually has two or actually has a implementations for both client and server So that would put that in that category the the putting EPP in this is something we could think about Like I said, the original proposal was really about trying to figure out how to stop the different viewpoints or the different, you know, people talking past each other when it comes to ARDAP Next slide We did have quite a bit of conversation about the differences between the wiki and the implementation status section that you will see in many RFCs One of them is, is that the Wiki is actually easier for an implementer to update, especially if they're not the ID author or one of the authors. So they implementer can go in and update the wiki much more easily. The other thing is the implementation status section is actually removed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "from the RFC from the draft when it goes to RFC And so in a way, the Wiki is actually more permanent and I know that's kind of weird to say but it it the way our process works, that's what it is And I do encourage everyone to go look at what IDR does They actually publish the reports on their wiki and they're very thorough, and they go through every little thing every little aspect of them implementation and they talk about how this should be it And the idea is that they're improving the quality of their documents and I think that should be our aim as well Yeah, before you change slides, or you don't make the slide or? Almost done with the slide, yeah. Once you finish the slide. So the idea was the, the, so it was pointed out that a lot of our documents do have an implementation section in there and one of the benefits of the implementation section is that it does survive the different parts of the review process so when a document is progressing from the working group to the IETF last call to the IEA you can, you get to see that in there. And so one of the one of the things we could do is we could look at a hybrid approach where we actually put a link to the wiki in the doc document so it reminds people when you're reviewing this go look at the wiki and see what's been done there. So Scott you have a clarifying question okay okay right next slide So the other part of this was, you know, what happens if they're not enough implementations and the idea was, hey, let's go ahead if we have, you know, we've come to consensus in the work group at the what happens if they're not enough implementations? And the idea was, hey, let's go ahead. If we have, you know, we've come to consensus in the work group, but it just hasn't been implemented, let's publish it as experiment and then once there are implementation we can bring it back in, take that implementation experience and publish it as proposed standard This does, at least from my reading of the IESG guideline fall into what experimental means But the other benefit there is,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "the IETF retains change control of the specification So if it's done independently, then the IETF does not have change control whereas it's experimental it still belongs to the IETF And I do want to point out that even an experimental RFC does mean something. A lot of people kind of like, it's not proposed standard, but it does mean something. It was pointed out on the mailing list that both EPP and ARDEP have opened registries. So what that means is anyone can actually publish into those registries, take an extension and publish them and they both, I believe, just require a stable publication point So as long as the publication is readily available and open to everyone to read and it doesn't change, then you can put something into those registries. So that's the counter to that Next slide And this was put on the mailing list, and I wanted to bring it up george michaelson had this quote on there about this becoming a de facto veto for incumbent I don't, and I really hope George is somewhere around, he can talk to this The, you know, we talk about cabals and people with wrong think and whatnot. The intent of this is not to do that. The intent is to raise the quality of the Reg X documents. So if there's some other dynamic, at play, I think we need to have an open and honest conference about what that dynamic is So I think that's the last slide. And you're going to moderate the discussion right now. Okay so we do have a cue developing. I do want to frame a little bit about this discussion, I think, and then people can speak to this too, whatever comments that you want to add we had quite some discussion on the mailing list. To me, this is a problem discussion, and it really is direct about how this working group works and what we do or don't want to do. We have not been especially formal about requiring implementations. I guess we've been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "lucky in a way because all of the significant things we've done have actually had an implementation. So it hasn't the question hasn't really come up and it hasn't been an issue But, you know, now we're moving into a space with so many more things coming before us that it, to me, as chair, it's an interesting question to ask, gee, do we want to be a bit more formal about this and require it? and i see that as the the essential question in this discussion So I want to be careful to let's you know, I don't want to repeat what has already happened but that is the question which I would hope we can come to a conclusion to in this session If you think that's the wrong question to ask, then you should please speak to that too. But that's where I think we need to go And with that, we'll start walking down the queue. So Scott you're up first. Thank you, Jim. scott hollenbeck So let me start by saying, I've got mixed feelings So some of what I'm saying is going to ramp here a little bit, okay? One of the reasons that the routing groups do this, is because the risk of breakage for what they are doing is a lot higher you know, in terms of there being catastrophic damage done than if something happens with an EPP spec or an ADAP spec. So I think we need to recognize that The bar should be higher if internet route suddenly stops working because of a specification issue. So that's probably a why they are doing something good, okay? Maybe it doesn't apply to us On our side we have had a couple of issues where we've been stalemate on a couple of topics and they just haven't gone anywhere And I think Andy's got a good point that maybe if we can't reach consensus on a certain approach to do something, well, we have not met that bar for advancing the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "to propose standard status And so if it makes more sense to publish a document as experimental such that we can learn a little bit more about what it is, how to implement it, how it works, that seems like a good thing to do. Okay point number three we're a small group. One of the reasons I think we run into these difficulties in establishing consensus situations is that if you've only got two or three people, who are actively engaged in a conversation, it can be very difficult to get a measure of consensus when you've got two people on one side one on another, or even worse, one on one side, one on another And there's no way to break the stalemate So I don't know how this solves that problem And then the last thing I think I want to touch on given the size of the group recognize that we are, for the most part, more heavily weighted toward server-side implementers right? Ardap in particular I'm only aware of two entities in this room that have done any client implementation. And so somewhat along the lines of what Andy was alluding to George saying, if we don't manage to get a client implement on board for any particular specification, things might not happen either because they don't have the time at any given moment to do implementation work or they disagree with it and we can't find a client implementer that is willing to step up again not not that I'm saying no I think it's a bad idea but I think these two are things that we need to consider. Thank you Now, thank you for all of that I mostly want to take notes for a little while, but I want to add a little bit of context to one of the things that you were saying. You commented about it being a small group. And yeah, that has always been a problem. I've been, you know, co-chair of this group since its inception"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "And the way that I have always characterized this with our area directors when running this group is yes there really are it's really a small hand of people who do most of the work, you know measured even on one hand most of the time you know, I mean, there's a little bit of in and out. Now the group has grown a little bit since then, and it is kind of a problem or maybe not, you know, we've ben fortuna so far in that we seem to get consensus pretty quickly with our small group. But you're right, Scott, lately we have suddenly found ourselves in a bit of a stalemate and I've always been nervous about that and that's part of the reason why we sort of stall. You know, I mean, yeah, we stole if we can't or at least I have forcibly just stole things because if our small group isn't together that's just not a good thing I'm really, I struggle with the notion of declaring consent just because three out of five people like something There's only five people who are looking at it I just I can't do that you know I mean I just feel whichever side of that coin I happen to be on individually I just feel as chair, it's inappropriate to move something forward so something to think about in in terms of how we work, you know, is this a we really have two choices. One is this notion of using experimental more, or maybe we just abandon the work and say, we can't get consensus let somebody do it as an individual work so I offer that up there as something to think about in this discussion too So I apologize. Peter, you're up next Thank you, Jim. Peter Koch, Deenich. And for full disclaimer it's an open secret that Deneck doesn't use EPP but I think we come close. And in the end, this is not a tech you, Jim. Peter Koch, Dienik. And for full disclosure, it's an open secret that Deneck doesn't use EPP, but I think we come close. And in the end, this is not a technical question, but a process, as you alluded to So to the best of my knowledge, this rule in that was quoted for IDR and SiderOBS has been an area wide rule for the rooting area for a couple of decades maybe and the reasons have been given by Scott already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "When I saw the suggestion by Andy, that the bar should be lowered and a client under survey implementation would suffice, then I wonder the nature of the routing product is that two interoperable are usually two independent implementation whereas the client and the server might not necessarily be independent so the question is what's the proof here? Somebody came up with a specification and proof that their own implementation works, which each other and that might not be sufficient and may may not be what you want here the other observation or question is implementation is one thing and yes the specification usually points at the implementer slash vendor. But in this space, it's a significant overlap with policy questions. So when we go to this TTL thing, like having a client determined the TTR in the parent zone for a particular record set, that is also something that needs to be reflected in the respective policy So willing to implement, at least on the service, side, is not equivocal to but maybe a precondition for willing to deploy. And maybe the deployment is which includes do whatever policy process may or may not be necessary depending on whether you are a G or a C or where you deployed so the ask would be too maybe distinguish between the two Because what you, Jim, in your comment pointed out is that it's a small small set of people that would determine these things because, yeah, the participation isn't broader than that and maybe doesn't reach too well into the registrar slash reseller space which might be another observation so that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "where the improvement lies. Thank you so thank you and just to add on that last point about it is a small group, but one of the things that I in particular, as an individual in sitting in the role as chair, I've tried to make a point of doing is that we do get at least a voice in every impacted stakeholder, I'll say So, you know, a registry, a registrar, a couple different registries if necessary, a DNS person. I mean, you know I'm trying not to have something which a smaller group of people is causing changes in other people who didn't have a voice. You know, so we do try to do our part. And there's a few of us. I'm not the only one who does that, but there are other people here. We try to help each other out and get there. Okay, Jim Gould, you're next Please, go ahead uh yeah I don't uh support this proposal for a process change but I have three reasons for it First off, I don't see the problem that is being fixed. I believe the work group has done a good job related to encouraging implementation and including them in the drafts I in particular have implemented the EPP extensions for each of the working group draft So I believe that the one of the solutions here may be more encouragement for the arts EPP extensions for each of the working group draft. So I believe that the one of the solutions here may be more encouragement for the ARDAP extensions for client implementation and do it earlier. When I do the EPP implementations, I do it as early as I can so I can incorporate that feedback into the drafts. The second mirror is what Scott had said. When I posted the message to the mailing list related to client in implementers for ARDAP, Mark was the only one that replied because I explicitly brought his name up. So there's really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "not that many implementers out there that we can Mark was the only one that replied because I explicitly brought his name up. So there's really not that many implementers out there that we could really help address this. And then third is, going with the experimental to start I believe you're going to discourage participants I mean, businesses are the ones that are funding for participation in a the working group, but we don't want to get to a point where the bar is so high that businesses would prefer to create proprietary extensions and that would hurt the working group itself and the entire industry so I would just recommend that we encourage more information earlier in the process Thank you, Jim. Next up, jody kolker Hi. This is jody kolker. Can you hear me all right? Absolutely All right. So my concern I think I'm going to echo a lot of what everyone else has said so I'll be very brief. I'm concerned about how many people we have in the group and who will be doing the implementation. You know, it seems that we have a hard time getting people to comment on draft but now we're gonna have to have them actually implement some of these. And I know that we're all under a lot of pressure here to produce things for a company and timelines are short and roadmaps are full. So trying to find time to squeeze into there to get an implementation done so that we could get a proposed standard through is going to be tough I think that some companies won't actually do any of the implementations until it is a standard because they don't want to rewrite it again. And I think it's just going to take a lot to be able to work on that So, I mean, I guess that's my first point is that we just don't, it doesn't seem like we have enough people in here to be able that will volunteer their time to do the implementations And then when we talk about client and server implementations, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "mean, can one company to boot? peterson do both the client and the server part of that? And then does that count as an implementation? Or do you have to have two? separate people do it so that you don't have the same person working on it? I just think there's some things that need to be clarified in there before I move forward. Thanks Thank you very much, Jody richard wilhelm. Thanks richard wilhelm, P.I.R so I also don't don't support this change I think that I think that be in a position where we're encouraging ARDAP adoption and usage. And I think that this sort of a thing actually moves the meter in the other direction because it actually makes it harder for people it discourages in bests in ARDAP because it makes it harder for extensions to get developed and actually discourages people from working on standards track things and like Jim Gould said, actually would encourage people to be working towards proprietary extension and not even moving towards a towards a standards track extension due to the due to a possible requirement of having to get multiple implementations I think we want to be instead working on cultivating and growing the client universe and in encouraging adoption in that way will universe and encouraging adoption in that way. So as Jim said, as Jim said, as Jim and also Scott said I don't think that this this helps the kind of situation that we're doing We're, the kind of thing that we've got going on here is just we're early on in the ARDAP days and the client side game And I think that we need to work on encouragement the environment in other ways and not by making it harder for people to work on ARDAP things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "and get them into production. Thank you Thank you Um, uh, jazz dip, please, you jumped in the queue Go ahead just deep saying, Erin. I think this is a very interesting discussion and it happens to be that both EPP and R-type are already internet standards So it's a very unique group in the sense that we are writing extensions for things which are already internet standards So I think all said and done, as a better way of working, I do like that idea of implementation wiki How we go about doing it, because think about it even if some of these things become eventually their standard track about it even if some of these things become eventually standard their standard tracks and they eventually become in standard standards you're going to add some point need that. And to Rick's point, about growing the ecosystem especially the client side because which is the point which Scott also made, that's pretty critical because so there are some full feature clients and then there are some unique space clients and and I'm not saying that the barrier of entry should be so high that suddenly it discourages people from coming out with new things right but as a better way of working, I think at least introduce that as a sort of internal measure or standard where you're like I want better quality and especially the point is that clients should not be surprised. Client implementers should be surprised. So if some way we can introduce or learn from other working groups or when and how what are their criteria for introducing,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "these implementation wikis, that will be awesome So that's all Okay, thank you Not seeing any other hands jump up up um yeah so let me um seeing any other hands jump up. Yeah. So let me add a couple of comments from my own personal perspective in all of this So, you know, chair hat off, if you will When this discussion first started, very early on in the mailing list, I made a particular observation, which is that, you know, I mean, the registries for the IANA registries for APP extensions and ARAP extensions are essentially for come first serve. The only requirement is that you have a stable documentation for it. So there's folks don't have to come to the IETF in the first place in order to get things looked at Now if they do want to get on the red registry, sure, the reg IETF in the first place in order to get things looked at. Now, if they do want to get on the registry, sure, the REJX mailing list is and the designated ethics are still going to get a request for the review but the only real purpose of that review is to make sure that it's not in conflict with any anything else that's out there and otherwise meets a sensible form and presentation for what it is, but there's no substance analysis of it that's intended So you can do whatever you want anyway I just want to put that back out there and remind us of that fact Coming back as chair, I guess I want to say three things I see this problem as really having two parts a discussion about implementation of documents that come before us and the discussion about review of those documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "that come before us And I really am concerned in a way that since we're really dealing with extensions to RDAP and EPP, which dealing with things which we would like to know that I think this group would like to know this working group should want to know that everything fits together, that we're not creating conflicts with what we're agreeing is relevant to exist I don't, I've always felt that judging the quality of a particular proposed extension whether or not it's relevant and useful for the Internet at large is probably just a bridge too far. Part of that is because sometimes there are some extensions for which that matters but for some extensions, it really is a it's a small group of people. It's serving the needs of a group of people and the only thing that this group really cares about, I would assert, is that whatever is being used by that small group of people isn't going to conflict with other extensions or with the standards in their base specification And I think that we want to check that. So I mean, look at the couple of extensions that have been just recently put up I mean even the TTL extension geo feed extension you know, that kind of stuff, it's like there not, they're not something that everybody is going to do And I'm struggling with the idea that we should even require that any number of people do them or that we should we should check them. I mean, I know that for me personally on documents come through with specifications for things. I do take them back internally and i i ask for implementers to look at them. Tell me what they think. I don't ask them to implement it but I like to get, you know, another technical opinion about whether this thing is good or not, but I don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "feel obliged to implement it. And I'm not sure that we should be the implementation police in that respect for extensions that don't, you know, help which are not for everybody They're for a small group of people. So now we have a few people jumping into the queue. I was going to propose a conclusion, but now that I've made some interesting comments let's get some other voices in here before we try to come up. Time check, we got eight minutes left Scott, go ahead, please. Thank you, Jim. scott hollenbeck again and actually I got in the queue before you started talking so anyway Anyway, I very, very much like the idea of using the wiki to document some you know the this implementation experience I mean I agree with Andy completely about, you know, the necessity for persistence. I think it's valuable, you know, for us to capture some of this And I don't know if anyone has actually taken a look at the wiki ever I know I have, and when you do, you'll go and see something I put there. I don't know how long ago. I can't even remember what it is, but that goes to show you just how infrequently we have paid any attention to it. And I do think that needs to change. So no matter what we decide to do with this discussion, the idea of using that wiki to help capture implementation experience, I think is a good one. And I would very much like to see that happen Two, just a note, we have always had the ability to kind of consider the same of documents on the fly, so to speak because very few of the documents that we were on appear as chartered milestones right? So we don't have to go look at our charter and we're it says produce document X as a proposed standard, right? So we don't have that contract with the community And so if we ever find ourselves in a situation where we, you know, cannot come to consensus, you know, as a said earlier, on publishing a document as a proposed standard I think one of the arrows that we should have in our quiver is this, this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "of, okay, well, if we cannot come to consensus, maybe it just makes sense to publish a document as experimental right? And we can use that to help break some of the log jams that we've been experiencing Thank you. Thank you Jim Gould, please, go ahead Yeah, I'm going to take an accent I'm take a look at the wiki myself. I have not used it But what I was going to say was it would be useful for the client and server implementers to be included maybe on the wiki somewhere so therefore we don't have to put a message out to the list to ask for those implementers we can just reach out that would be useful Thank you. Thank you, Jim Powell, you're up next I will be also supporting the idea of using the key more to document the implementations to have maybe not formal bar defined for proceeding with this drafts but at least full transparency when reaching consensus what is the implementations status and depending on the complexity of the draft it may be that implementation is not needed, but if it's a brave new idea with completely new protocol interactions it probably is good idea to maybe take some time for implementation okay thank you and richard wilhelm, going to make you last here, and I'm going to lock the key to maybe take some time for implementation okay thank you and richard wilhelm going to make you last here and I'm going to lock the queue verbally even though I can't seem to do it personally. Go ahead, Rick. I'm richard wilhelm PIR. I just, so you would start you made the comment that you know, you said the whole idea of extensions is that their appeal is limited. They, they're, their utility is sometimes very targeted. I'm thinking to a number of extensions that we have in EPP land, some that, you know, some very targeted. I'm thinking to a number of extensions that we have in EPP land, some that, you know, sometimes I've been at companies and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "we've done them and they're only useful for our particular situations and that I can think of different lanyards that I've been wearing at work, not that, but my different name tags and I've come up with a couple of three extensions I've been thinking like if it were EPP land I'd be like, well, our extension wouldn't make it right? And then it wouldn't be an EPP, it wouldn't be an IETF, it'd be a proprietary thing. And, um, EPP land, I'd be like, well, our extension wouldn't make it, right? And then it wouldn't be an EPP, it wouldn't be an IETF, it'd be a proprietary thing. And this is dating back, you know to the early aughts. And so I think that really a number of comments that a lot of people have made, the ones that you made right here, at the end are maybe the most compelling reasons you can't allege it you know it goes along the line of one comment that Jim Gould made where he said, where he said something, the effect of tagging these things experimental will deter adoption, right? And what you said kind of wrong where he said something, the effect of tagging these things, experimental will deter adoption, right? And what you said kind of rhymed with that, which is, look, these things kind of have limited appeal and or they're targeted for a particular business problem or operation problem or something like that. And that's why they're extension and they're not part of the main draft. That's the whole idea that they're an extension because if they weren't an extension, you would just incorporate it in the main body to work. And so I think that that's why we were kind of messing with the idea of what it means to be extension. So that's I think plus one in your point that you made earlier about like we shouldn't be passing too harsh of judgment and require a ton of broad implementations on these things because they are particularly limited by design. Thank you okay um i'm showing three minutes left i do want to try to end on time. I'm going to make four suggested actions out of this, which really fall to me to make happy and try to summarize this discussion. I'll send this to the mailing list. So if anyone has any strong, just real objections to all of this, then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "we'll continue the discussion. But I'd like to think that we can, we can this off here and come to this So first, I'm not sensing any real consensus for changing our implementation requirements in this working group for our work what I would suggest though, is that there are times when we may choose to want to have implementation I mean, I can think of a couple of examples of extensions that come around, like the extension that we had years ago. That was kind of important to get implemented by a few people in EPP because it was broadly useful, you know, for example. Other extensions do tend to be targeted, and I think that, you know, we shouldn't over important to get implemented by a few people in EPP because it was broadly useful, you know, for example. Other extensions do tend to be targeted and I think that, you know, we shouldn't overwhelm ourselves with that. So I think not changing our overall process is the right thing but we will from time to time choose to make target requirements from implementations and that's just going to be a judge call on us. But I think that we're capable of doing that The second thing is, along the way here was the discussion about, yeah, we have hard enough trouble getting people to review documents And that is still a problem. But I think that's a good focus We should stick with our focus there. We put a lot of effort into reminding people to please review documents, indicate your support make sure that you've done it. Again, you know, extensions, the first come first serve, people I think that we let communities do what they want to do We just want to make sure they're not interfering with everything else that's going on. And that's our role, and that's what the reviews need to accomplish. So let's continue with that Third thing, clearly there's some support at least for the Wiki I happen to personally like that too. I think we should seek to try to make greater use of the wiki and see if we can't get more information about implementations of everything Whatever we can get, we should certainly try to get that document So I'll take that as an action to follow up even with my co-chair and we'll try to advertise that and put on that in the working group. And then the fourth thing we do have a process issue of what to do about stalemates And, you know, as chair in many ways i'll admit i i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "kind of you know left stalemates and i let them languish and work doesn't move because I don't even know what to do about something and how to deal with that You know, I guess part of this discussion was, well, maybe we could take advantage of a experimental as a way to get past a stalemate. I'll take that as something consider. I think that's a fair constructive comment to the working group in general And so I will certainly put that in the toolbox of a way to look at things. If we can't get our small group of people to all agree on something, then maybe the path is, well, let something go off and be something. But I want to be a little cautious about that because again, the other opportunity here is maybe it doesn't have to be a working group product. I think that that's a question we'll always have to ask ourselves because keep in mind, you know, again, the registries for extension are first come first serve. It doesn't have to go through the work group. It doesn't have to be a working group product So, you know, we'll take advantage of using experimental when we can. Or maybe we redirect people into an informational state and let them go put the document their extension out there anyway and then see what happens with it, and we'll go from there. So I'll add this to the toolbox of things of how to deal with stalemate, because I think that's important and helpful to us Just one note. For the proposal to make any process changes, we should make sure we run that on the list so that, you know, folks who are remote can't be here with us today, that they have a chance to review. So if you could write up, you know, like what you just said, make sure in the list summary we can confirm that And then the other note, you know, with my ADA hat on, I'm here to support you in this process So if you want milestones, I can help you with milestones if you guys decide that you want to apply processes or you want to consume or adopt any patterns that other areas have have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "already looked at, I'm happy to go speak to those area directors and learn you know, what work for them. So you have me as a resource in addition to your chair up here And thank you, thank you for everything Any other closing remarks? No, I think that's it. There was a any other business opportunity, but we're past time here but I will anybody want to raise your hand you got it any any business. Otherwise, we'll see you on Wednesday We have our two-hour session on technical details and not seeing anything in the queue well the cue is locked now. It's locked, but anybody could have put a hand up still But thank you very much, everyone. Appreciate it. It's been a very good decision very helpful. And I hope that close that off. Thanks All right there's nobody to turn that sucker off Yeah, it'll be hot When we first came in the room, this thing was transcribing something We didn't do it in here. I don't know. We had no idea where that mic was weird from. That was weird Yes, I actually up to the agenda, which I posted just before"
  }
]
