[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I was just a I was just a convenient stop on a way to success. 5th, 5th, 5th, 5th, 5th, 5th, No. No. worth. Hello. Someone's actually transcribing So is what? I hope that doesn't go anywhere. that's why you see -- -- man. -- keep moving the microphone Like, to discuss. don't know if I'm supposed to wait for Lars We don't think this strictly speaking mean. No. That's alright. So just for everyone, our relevant AV had to So part of the meeting early for personal reasons. And so The AD who was supposed to be helping us today was it's Lars. But, obviously, he's not here, so we're gonna we're gonna go without AD. So Everybody be nice so that I don't have to do anything that I don't wanna do. And on that note, Since this is a fry Meaning, I would normally say to the audience, this is the note well. And since you've all been here all week, you read it a whole bunch or whatever, but I know a bunch of you have not been here all week. it's the same note well. read it Love it. Love it. Love it. Love it. Love it. live it. be nice to everyone be professional, our interactions, note really well? Yeah. Yeah. This is changed it to note really well? No. No. We did the note well. Now we'd doing the note really well, you should go look on the chairs resources to the slides they recommend for you. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "Okay. comment on which of the chairs built chair slides. Alright. Meeting tips. in case you weren't already aware in the pre meeting chat that was captured in the automatic closed captioning system. This meeting is being recorded. you're not okay with that, I don't know what to tell you Okay. Agenda. Why we're here? So open for agenda bash. This is there's a topic you wanna put on here that I somehow missed By all means, feel free to come to the mic, possibly the chat room. Raise your hand. k. Seeing nothing, We'll stick to this agenda. We should have some time, particularly at the end, I will reserve at least 5 minutes or, sorry, 10 minutes this this kind of way forward. I didn't put times on these, but there was one at some point? Can relayed forward. sorry. we'll discuss future interims. in that time. Yeah. Okay. Status. So You wanna cover these? Sure. all these Alright. So since the last meeting, little bit rough on the closing of some items, but a There were several documents that were put out for for either adoption by working group or working group last call. So the Dell State ID 3 document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "And I believe this has all reported over the email, email, The working group last call is complete, and that's going to move forward. Similarly for the Scuzzy layout for NVMe, working group last call is complete. Need to and both needs shepherd write ups as does the layout week cash consistency document. working group last call complete. Internationalization document is a work in progress. I think my take on this, we are looking for expert review and guidance. on the document to move it forward. This has been a somewhat longstanding item. We've gotten a little bit of feedback. that's somewhat helpful. But but we need to reinserted into the queue of asking for help there. k? The largest work item is the 56 1, this draft. That's part of the agenda today. and Novak could be talking about that. and we've adopted talfiesardimadot be a mint. Did we get enough votes on the list to say that's adopted already may commit as adopted? They or that no. That was the one we gotta redo. Yeah. at this meeting. gotta say -- Right. -- okay, and restart it. Okay. So one of the documents we sent out was the was Tom Talpies, see on Yes. He is. And, Tom, re you know, remind me if I'm wrong. There was a bunch of documents sent out for various working group adoption or less call. and for advancement the one document was Salpi's RDMA commit document for adoption into the working group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "I didn't we actually didn't get any feedback if I recall correctly. Tom, Please wait in here if you know something else. I just need to I just need to resubmit that and get driving. I have a little noise in the background, so I'm trying to keep the, like, muted. There was a call for objection, if you will, or consensus, and everybody said yes. Nobody said no. If that I never saw the official announcement that this was adopted but it's certainly all the all the indications point that way. So this is good. The next step would be for me to republish it as two documents as was discussed atietfone 16. I'll go ahead and do that. Okay. what oh, hold on. Where the chairs are? We can't stop this. What I'm just gonna put a pull out of any objections to r RDMA advancing. two documents and make a document. Okay. Okay. Alright. Yeah. So, Tom, Tom Felby. We will Take your direction. And Yeah. I'm gonna do a quick show if hands full using the tool. The question is, Any objections to RDMA advancing and being adopted. So if you object raise your hand. And if if you're no objection, either don't. Do not raise hand. k? The question is a negative. I'm sorry. I think there's a chair rule that you're not supposed to do this, but I'm doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:08",
    "text": "You achieve your goals? And that actually pretty much is the entire room responded and This is adopted. and we'll move forward, and we'll move it forward and data tracker. As soon as you tell us the the documents to put into the working group or right Great. Yeah. It'll take me a little while. I'm gonna take the document apart and put it back together into 2. So I should be doing that in the next couple of weeks. Just some feedback, Tom, your voice is coming out of the ceiling and you sound like the voice I've got. So Bloom. Thanks, Tom. And then for folks who were following the list closely, You noticed that I sent out a a missing adoption call yesterday We'll close that in approximately 2 weeks from today. So please respond on list for that. and Lara's Edgar has entered the room the It's all good. Right? So because we got the pull done before he he managed to get in here. Santa. Okay. interim meeting. We had an interim meeting. You likely did not attend. I'm I'm gonna leave that last question of the can we get you to attend the interim meeting to the way forward conversation at the end. but I will just kind of say, hey. had a very poorly attended"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "inter meeting at this point, Nope. Alright. That's the end of the chair slides. Now I actually need the agenda because I don't memorize these things. Alright. So this is actually kind of the security approach conversation, and I wanted to have a little bit of an I don't have slides for this. kind of a cherished conversation with the working group. Everybody's I want to hear feedback about how we want to to kind of progress. So There's a agenda item, draft item today about how to secure RDMA, there's the work on 5661 this, that really won't progress unless we kind of really duo pretty significant piece of effort on security Right? So know, from time that that document was approved to today, the security consideration sections have have have have you know, kinda changed in their needs. And so I want to know I I would like to hear feedback from the group as to what the appetite is and what folks think might be appropriate to how to approach security. and what it would take assuming that we keep progressing 5661 bps. Right? you guys have to, like, come and give me feedback to for me to get feedback."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Yeah. needed. I mean, I What implementations are currently hindered by having this document work what adoption is hindered and Not saying the work is bad, but I don't actually see it solving real problem for the InFS community right now. Oh, and by the way, Christopher Helbig, we're supposed to So Alright. Christophe, thanks for that. I have kind of I would almost say a a if I drop down a layer in there, are And and so I am not an NFS you kind of provider don't work for a file systems company. Is there market demand for different authentication mechanisms, you know, kind of those transport updates to You kind of to newer stuff, mean, from a security point of view, Do our does the market asking for any of that? I mean, to your point, Christophe, if if if you know, questioning"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "what the value to the market of 56, 61 bps is I would be inclined to think the answer is no, but anybody care to answer give or vendors seeing that. Our vendors seeing that Tom Haines. We always get asked is it secure. Right? But you you know, your server, sort of those TLS Right? And we can satisfy with 1 of the 2. We're not being asked are you know, we are missing these features that are in the biz document. Okay? Alright? gonna give everybody a if anybody has any comments, chat, or I don't see anybody in the queue online either. A moment, Otherwise, we'll move on to next topic. Yeah. Alright. Internationalization. Dave, I think that's you. Dave, if you're speaking or not getting anything."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:16",
    "text": "While we're waiting for Dave, I will comment that Tom, I'm sorry. I did actually update the agenda, but I forgot to update the agenda in the slides. So so there's no tau p RDMA. I forgive you. Saurin is pasting something in the chat there's something wrong with the mic. Is that Alright. Soren, are you with Dave? Go back, Oh, sorry. I cannot speak. There's Soren's video. Oh, Okay. So I love Mead echo. That was dripping irony. or sarcasm. Hey, Soren. My suggestion is to exit and restart from the session You did it twice already. 3rd time is the charm, honest to god. On the interim meeting, I had to drop twice and then restart. k? k? Give it one more try. Thank you. I also prefer interpretive dance. Yeah. So me, that goes audio has been confounding on for for the few people who attended the interim."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:11",
    "text": "Dave, are you seeing my Can you hear me now? We can. Soren. third time's the charm. Yeah. 3rd time's the charm. You know, I I didn't think that I thought twice is the charm, but Seriously, Chris. Okay. So I'm I'm good. I'm here. So I will be able to comment now if I need to. So But I think that they could have the same problem. It's something to do with Massachusetts, I think. Right. Well, now that we got you connected, Soren, did you actually have comment or was this a pyrrhic victory? No. I was wanting to comment on David Novak, but I it didn't start. So No. I I checked to be sure that I can. That was the point. No. I can't. So I can't. Okay. Okay. So go ahead. I I don't want to stop you guys. I mean, -- No. -- difficult media. Okay. And and sorry about that, Lauren. We're we're having go. either How would you guess that they have to do it three times? Because I had to do it three times. It wasn't a guess. And somebody else had to. It seems to be a future, actually. I again, I'm don't want to waste too much time. Should we just move from first and we actually kinda covered what Tom's, which was with the the doc and whatever that that's already done. Dave is more or less the rest of the So, I mean, if we have some time, I can throw in a tiny little bit Davis? Where is the internationalization review? and chat."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "Well, so I'll give the update which is I'm not sure, Lars, if you were updated with with with with with Sohad So I'm supposed to schedule a meeting between folks in the art area myself, Dave, and the head next week. high large ticket, I guess, NFS working group participant. So so I did try to explain to Zahad and and also, like, the rest of the ISG that there's some history in a sense that, you know, I think this is the 3rd time where NFS got asked to redo monetization, and that there's there's some justified frustration on on the part of this working group, to hear, you know, a different approach that doesn't work. and I hear that so I had had a a phone call with John Glenson who was person who sent that, I guess, a nonreview. Right? Because he said, And there's a way forward. So I had had to leave urgently. He was here earlier in the week he had a family emergency in Sweden, and we all said, you know, get on the plane and and go back and and Don't look back. I don't I haven't heard anything since that I didn't expect to. But as far as whatever you're telling me on on Monday morning or Sunday, there was an approach that was discussed. And that's all I know. So, yeah, it was it was that we will we will kick that off with a meeting that I will schedule between those The parties listed on on next week. Okay. So you you use that and and and Dave. and John. Okay. Okay. That's that's what I know. Thank you. So, I mean, Christopher Hollick, again. NFS working group participants, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "with the risk of sounding like a broken record because I stated something pretty similar last time. I really don't think the document in its current form is a document that should even go up to higher review review review review because because It's mixing up clarifying behavior in assisting published specifications. It's trying to be a split out part of the best document, And at the same time, it really does not address the root problem in internationalization, which is And and and that's a problem that appeared in the original NFS 4 spec that tries to document internationalization behavior end, in practice in all relevant implementations, the NFS implementations don't we do internationalization. And the document is trying to get to that a little bit in the let's say, rather, rambling way being snarky if previous working group discussions in I I I really don't think that helps anyone. I I think what really helps if we wanna do it is do it For new versions only, don't try to clarify behavior for existing published versions because it's in there. It might not be correct. in them. addressed this root point that Whatever we previously said, is not actually true. Internationalization is, in general, not done the NFS server or client implementations, but by other layers, in the file system stack, and then clearly document what that means for implementations. and That, I think, is both more useful for implementers and more likely to pass IESG review or any other IT Dave here,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "Yes. You can hear. Hey, Dave. This is Brian. baby. Soren had problems talking to as I did on the interim meeting, if you recall, Yep. You might wanna just connect and try to reconnect on meet echo. me that go I had to do it three times, Soren just did it three times so that it could be heard and it worked. You wanna try a couple of reconnections. Exit and come back in. we'll wait for you. seem to be having the same problem I had. I could hear everything, but I nobody could hear You speaking, and it wasn't me or my computer, it was me to echo screwing up. Who's that? I just I'm swapping the slides."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "assume he actually does this time for So while we're waiting, like to throw in a little, like, minor item potential announcement. So I that initial implementer feedback for the NVMe layout dot document. And the one thing that I heard twice now is that a lot of the software defined NVIDIA or Fabrics implementations really liked use the UUID as the unique identifier and not the identifiers we currently define in the existing skuzzi layout, and we had a discussion on that, I think, in Philadelphia sometime in the working group that we don't wanna add this new code point in the NVMe layout because just a binding. And if we wanna edit, it should be another tiny draft probably less than a page minus the boilerplate, and Given the implementer feedback, I will probably start this publish a personal draft and then quickly ask for working group adoption. Thank you, and South Teresa? Hey. I just have a quick question on the current slide. Were these mailed out earlier This is news to me, and I got a bunch of input they are actually on the Okay. So, yes, they were on the meeting materials earlier this week. And then this is actually few days. Okay. Hey. Yep. and then and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "this is the agenda was out Top. I mean, I was late, but it was out a week and a half ago. Okay. This was alright. My fault for not seeing it, I guess. That's fine. I'm I'm very interested in this. Yeah. It's anyway, the first pass of these slides was uploaded yesterday, the day for some time this week, and then This version of the slides was updated this morning. Great. Maybe my email has been failing me, but I'm looking and there's hardly any messages since early July, none of them mentioned this. this draft. So what would you like to do This is Richard, if I may. you have to go to the meeting material and then to and second, top are there. that says slide. and not the tar file or the download package from directly from the from the schedule. that is empty. I actually don't know how is I don't know how that actually gets populated or works. So thank you for that. I but that's that's Okay. Okay. I'll I'll try to find them. I'm just not gonna want Chris. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "Yeah. If we can't get audio from Dave in the next involvement or so, then it's pretty much the end of the meeting unless someone's got some other business. So Bring up this. Now he updated both of these be like, I mean, like, I mean, like, They ruined my mailbox this morning. k. So there are I can step through like You want me to? Go for it. We're gonna do an audible and Right? You hear me? It's gonna Yes. How many times -- Alright. Dave, how many times That's one time for you. You should use this easy time first. Say it again? the the the Okay, Dave. Okay, So I'll go ahead. Alright. So I this is this is a late edition, but I think it's important is get get get the discussions started. Wait a minute. Let's see. What wait a minute. Yes. Sorry. I'm just switching back to the RDMA security Right. Oh, my understanding was that in the agenda was that I was after time. But, anyway, I can do a nap. Go ahead. Okay. Anyway, I said this is as I said before, this is a lead edition, but I think it's important to get is get some momentum here and get started just because this is something you need. Let's move on next slide. This is an overview"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "I think the most of it that's part of thought most about is the motivation. Okay. So we we We before, we didn't have TLSSuite, encryption was supposed to done by Yeah. by the by you know, by by this privacy or variance. and that was per principal and encryption which is hard to offload. And even though our security was worse, we had a further problem with our Bay, and that when you use turned on privacy, you to basically turned off direct Directated Plisman. So this really was was was Now we're facing differences with. Now Not RDMA use of NFS, has RPC using TLS and has no RDMA equipment, and I think that's bad. let's move on next slide. I think we need to address this gap. somehow, And I've been thinking about that, and some of the slides there are, like, sort of very, very broch is we but my primant, point here is we need to start on this. I don't think we can have RMA users forced to accept in fear of secured. particularly since RDMA is the way is a is is is has been so good about improving performance. helpful as far as improving performance. So I think we're going to also see and we've started to see need for RDM outside of within the machine room environment. I think we require TLS equivalent security with ironworker equipment performance at least to support RD May over a distance, including you know, metro a true layer of wide clusters."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "are number of miles in in diameter. Okay. Anyway, let's move on to the next slide. So I've been looking at some of the existing Okay. So one way to do this is to layer t layer TLS on top of TCP. And then on top of that, Put in the eye work. stuff. and you need a new negotiation and upgrade match. measurements to go along with with the Well, we currently have for for for TLS RPC using TLS. But I think that I looked at the document that's probably not doable. There's some buffering issues that make that hard, which you explained in RFC 504 Anyway, Given that, let's move on to the next slide. And this this is a promise you alternative. they were Replace TLS TCP by quick, which has the security characteristics of TLS or better, And I think given quick frame boundaries, I think you wouldn't need DDP in the stack So I would also need to investigate fact that Quitt has multiple streams, would look at, like, look how SCTP, I think I've just started to do that. It's done in an RFC 5040and5043. And I think probably Intuition tells me my might try to handle each chunk as a separate stream. So that's sort of better if things are lost, you know, one one RDMA operation would continue, but one would would wait for but others can go on. Anyway, possible advantages that given the large in the room, maybe he you tell me on on these whether these are right or wrong. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "Possible vans aren't using multiple paths rather than 1 single, one fixed. I think better congestion control. that you have. and certainly, you have better unless large large contributes me, we have better recovery from lost packets. So I think that that's That's good. Let's move on. Next slide. Hey, David. It's Lars. Can you leave this up for a second since you asked me for feedback? So, yeah, I think you can basically you can basically think of the layering on top of quick similar to delaying that's done on top of STTP because they're pretty similar at that level. you except that I think Quick has even more stream. So, basically, you have 2 to power 62 streams. So you can really just use, like, a lot of them with not an issue. And I think SATP had a little bit more of a limit there for a memo correctly made with 2 to the power 32 or something like that. but, you know, who who knows? So you can you can basically aggressively use streams without a downside. multiple paths a quick multipath is currently I don't think it it's not done It's sort of in the experimental phase. And it is a it is a a hard problem fundamentally, Once that is added, I guess, NFS could figure out how to use it. But at the moment, I would sort of limit ourselves, yourselves to the the regular quick that's deployed. Congvesting control, is basically a new Reno style. according to RFC 90002, except that most implementations that you might wanna pick because you certainly don't wanna implement quick from scratch. do have alternatives like Cubic or BBR agree level. And, typically, they have sort of applicable congestion control, set up, like the Linux kernel, for example, where you can for Connect or or would they have to default Pick whatever you want."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "And and you do have better performance because unlike with TCP, with Quick. You don't have head of line blocking, meaning that if you lose one packet, the stream that had data lost might get blocked until that's recovered, and can it be delivered to the application but other streams can still be delivered. So order order data, which is you know, what what NFS uses. can be delivered. So you have you have potentially better latencies, for that. So that that's sort of my takeaway. But I think the direction is is correct. Thanks. So Christoph Hilfig, benefits working with participant. So I'll I'll oh, oh, oh, I like to skim the cat from a different direction than this very networking centric approach that Lars did, which kind of understand. that is if we're looking at storage protocols and they consider NFS as storage protocol and expect. The the one big thing why people use RDMA is to use is essentially use it as a standardized and efficient way to properly align the actual storage payload there is get your data efficiently without copying into PageLine chunks. And the important bit here really is the hardware of out. I mean, software RDMA implementations are interesting for testing experimentation. They don't actually matter in production workloads. So whatever we're doing here needs to be something lenders are willing to implement in hardware And if we find a way to piggyback on something else that can do the the the page aligning that is also used for other mainstream use cases, that's probably a big win for NFS because no one's gonna do something just for NFS. So instead of framing the discussion of how we can secure RDMA is how do we get a secure transport that does trumper patrol or or proper payload alignment. And that could be secure RDMA because that has other use cases that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "I think the problem statement actually goes one step back. Great. Tom, you have a comment. Just gonna comment on the quick topic, topic, to remind people that we talked about an eye warp layering on quick a couple of years ago, We were encouraged to table it because QUIC wasn't yet standardized, and it likely would require some sort of quick extension to make proper, use of the mapping. and so we deferred it. And I would love to pick that up again. I think there's a lot of good points about layering eye work on quick quick quick, I'll also agree with Christophe that you know, hardware implementation or something that can be implemented, out of software is very advantageous. finally I'll mention that I have a proposal And that that that once again, we were encouraged to table for the time being. that would add encryption to RDMA direct transfers. without, by the way, a protocol tree. that would not necessarily encrypt the entire argument payload. It would only encrypt the directly placed payload. So requirements thinking are through our requirements. I think it's really critical before we explore any of these paths. It's great to listen But we've we've been here before, we stopped going down that road. So let's just back up and and think about requirements. and see where where it points us. That's all. Quick question, Tom, to did we ever have a requirements document regarding the data only encryption without protocol change? No. Okay. No. Like I say, we were encouraged to table it because Everybody's head was exploding."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "I'd love to put that -- -- again. Sorry. Go ahead, Tom. The chair. I I'm getting those new background. I'm sorry. I gotta mute. Okay. but the chair recognizes Lars Eggert. Thank thank you, Mister Chairman. So so so Tom and Chris have made good points. Right? So I think thinking about what's needed is is a good approach. And I think, Christophe, the the think what you said is is is we might have hardware offload for TLS, we don't have hardware offload for quick. And that is certainly true at the moment. Right? So so there are some know, I I don't I don't can't quite recall if they've presented this as an either or in terms TLS or quick. I don't really think it's an either. I think There's certainly deployments where performance matters now where TLS is is is has definite performance benefits. because you can actually do a a TLS offload on a Nick while you cannot do this with the personal quick offload is on the road map, but it's gonna take a little bit more time because it's not so easy, let's say, and a and a bunch of vendors have found that they can't do it with the current 66 but it's it's gonna come minute has the potential to get you some better performance, and and, you know, future features down the road. But I think It might be worthwhile to do TLS and quick, and and maybe prioritize TLS because you can ship this pretty much immediately with Quick, you really got a neat to wait for the hardware, offload if you wanna run it at highperformance. I'll point out that the Microsoft SMB use of quick is actually for wide area use. and not so much for for high performance. And they actually just treat they just use 1 quick stream that they treat as a TCP connection. So they don't use any multiple messages as far as I know. because their use case is simply getting SMB run over the WAN. tag."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "The the the point I was making is that we really need to talk to the hardware vendors, what works for them, and that could be PLS now quick in the future. And the other thing I think we should consider is if we're able to design the protocol so it doesn't need Actually, I wore specific hard growth loads, but we can piggyback on other things. And I don't know what because the whole idea of, like, generic page splitting, as we call it, like like alignment of the payload, this has actually been something that's been on the wish list of some of big guys including, like, the cloud vendors. We haven't gotten there yet. We had some more discussions in the EDPF because EVPF might actually be useful for that even then, network protocols tend to be fairly stateful and it's really hard to collect all that state to do the proper offload. So either we need to figure out that RDMA is actually important enough that enough hardware implements just whatever we do. or we need to figure out If there is a way to design the protocol, with Little enough state that something like an EBP for similar based header splitting engine would actually solve all problems, which would also make other users start looking for the for the page splitting very happy. which might turn out it's something that would move out of this working group and into other k. We have two people in the queue. Tom again. and then Cuemathal. Tom, 1, 1, Yes. So two comments. Iwarp over TLS over TCP is potentially easy to deploy but does require pretty substantial changes in Munich. So it it might be a little bit problematic. It's it's been considered before, and my belief is the nick vendors were not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "very enamored of it. It required a number of things that were hard to implement with the same security model that the IP SEC original model would provide 2nd, SMB's use of quick is very, very simplistic. it's a really lousy example. I agree with Lars. You know? Let's let's consider it, but it it's primarily for penetrating firewalls, getting to the cloud, if you will, and it is not at all for performance. I was I I think it could have been done better. but it's a it's a first step following me. l, I guess that's all. I was just following up on those two comments. Okay. Max. back Keith, Marcel. I think quick for LFS would have its uses because of the WAN element anyway. So I think it is worthwhile to standardize it regardless. And if someone can then make quick work in hardware, that would be amazing. and I'm sure would help a load of other Working groups give it how many protocols run out are beginning to run over quick these days. I had know, give give them we can make TLS, hardware, off load work. I'm sure someone will be able to figure out quick. Quick. Quick. Quick. hardware off flows. I I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I've I willing to be proven wrong on that point. but I don't think it's worthwhile saying, no. We don't need a ball of caring about it because no one's managed to make a hardware offload yet. check. Right. Dave, Continue. Okay. Sure. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "anyway, this is this is direct. One way of doing this assuming we go this direction, although I I think we should also considered the other other things that people have mentioned. would be a a a mapping document sort of, like, of the way that the envying mattandot Another thing is is Simple extension of RFC 504, which would include quick on the same level as TCP and SCTP. Plus new document Yeah. Like, We then currently, we have documents 543, 50441 for one for SVTV. and probably revision of 5042 as well. But that's that's It's a significant amount of work, but it's not all that much. It looks like RFC 7306 can be left be left alone. Alright. Let's move on next next slide. Now people have mentioned the need for hardware implementation, and I don't think I'm gonna do that. don't think we're gonna do that. and it's one thing to wait until But another thing is I think it would be helpful Just do a software only implementation. And then you have something that you can speak to vendors about rather than know, just sort of wave your hands. So anyway, So I think I would be I'd be I'm hoping to do some sort of in implementation work given what's available. Alright. So I think we could we you know, people have mentioned the possibility that we'll need something else from quick not there now. And if we To do that, you really have to do some some testing, before have Needham Plantation. We we don't wanna get in this situation where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I know Tom said we were encouraged to table this. I don't I don't know. But It's a new day now. It's years later. Quicken is standard standardize. Maybe it's not what we need. Let's just see if it is. Okay. Let's move on next slide, and then I'll be finished. So so I would start you know, we have an open source eye war, but implementation. It's BST license. I would take that Now I there probably is somewhere, I hope, So for a quick implantation, If if that exists, I would use that. if it has the right licensing, Anyway, I think I think beyond the the dock issue, I think we need putting equal stress on getting some implementation work done. see if this is really important. Okay. That's the end of the dock. Yeah. On on the last second, on the implementation bit, right, there's 20 ish open source quick implementations at the moment. So so MS quick from Microsoft. I think it's BSD license, if I remember correctly, and It has a nice feature that it can be compiled both into a library for applications, and it can it's actually also used in the Windows kernel. So it has the right obstruction so you can run it in the kernel. I think -- Okay. That'd be good. There was There was even a Linux vendor who was doing a POC of of doing quick analytics kernel don't think if a republic or a release, but somebody did that. There's there's others. Right? There's a Rust implementation that has seat bindings that's PST license fine. So there there's a there's a whole bunch that that would be available And then So Christophe Googled it, and he found something. So I I I think the the the BSD license is is not an objection, and and there's also stacks that are sort of super actively maintained everybody is shipping this."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "now. I I'm sorry. This this is not a limitation, but The other things we discussed earlier still, you know, need to be worked Okay. Tom, Do you have a question? Comment? Yeah. I mean, I I think this greatly under estimates and understates the work required to do this. Right? We don't wanna layer eye work on quick like it's layered on TCP. We I mean, we don't want MPA over quick, Right? MPA, the framing protocol, is they're purely for TCP. So if we take it out, now we have a new negotiation problem. It it ripples up protocol rapidly. There's a whole lot of work to be done. personally, I think that I wore could be could be sort of re architected. to to do it. The protocol would remain very similar but the transport interaction would become much more rototil, as we used to call it. It would it would have more intimate knowledge of the transport features to take advantage anyway -- I think that's right. It it's it's it's much more work than you described. It's not just an extension through the existing documents. There those documents are written too. very specific TCP requirements. We're gonna have to do a lot more than extend them. Well, we'll we'll just say we'll Get the error out and see see what it looks like. Yeah. And but so don't forget, there are other RDMA protocols in the world. And so you know, I'm not sure that in Iwarp only approach is is the proper one from the worldwide perspective."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "we may want to consider how RDMA itself. could leverage securities, security protocols are security capabilities. And about that as well. Think Okay. Sure. There's not much left in the iWark manufacturing market, by the way. Alright. Let's see. I think Tom's the next next person. So let's see his slides. Well, we has enough slides, so we kind of already covered it. He's gonna upload a Updates. Okay. Fine. that that makes your up you being up again. I'm up again? Okay. Fine. Alright. Well, this is A slightly modified us from the seven slides, that I I present at the at the interim that Only few people attended. All the chairs were there anyway. and and David Black, I guess. In in any case, These are modified based on change them. made and some suggestions. that were made at that time, but it's they're very it's very close. Anyway, let's move on. the next next slide. Alright? This this overview is know, the motivations, why we're doing this why we needed this document. It's been a long time since RFC 5661 was published. and it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "there's a lot of things as as as we'll see that aren't right in it and need to be fixed. So now we're gonna discuss what's in the 01 draft, which is the latest draft that's out there. things that I mentioned that need to be done you know, in that in some of the appendices of o 1, or mention them but not yet done, and anything else people would want to raise. and what the process might be going forward, which I think maybe modified based on what what Chris will have to say later anyway. Let's move on to the next slide. Now these these are the motivations we had was started to do the mistack. First of all, we need to separate out areas that were common to homeowners versions. as 56 is the one written. It would say, this is entirely separate protocol blah blah blah. of And As things work out for are a number of things that wasn't the right thing. It I'll talk about those later. Also, we had an enormous number of a lot of reports that we had to address. Also, some because Over time, we had a number of changes to that. to the deck. First of all, we did is 1 there were other documents modifying 5600 of that update. For example, 8434. So I think we wanna A full suite of documents is accurate. the document v4.v4.1 And then the primary one is unsatisfied treatment of security, in the existing specification. There's no threat analysis in in either in either rpc rpc7530. Or in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "5661or8881. And somehow, we got away with that, and I don't think we can go and get away with that any longer. And the second thing the second thing I wanna draw attention to is the discussion of offices presents it as optional. It's I think Brian raised a question of new flip. We don't need new new new flavors. but we do need tip. Tip. coherently describe the flavors they have, and the case of velocities, it's described as a optional means of of authentication, but it's not optional in the capital in the capital in the RFC 21 19th sense because it's not that the implement has free choice. He has a choice. but ensuring to use his office heat heat compromise secured, and then you cannot use the word option in that case. and as it says scrubs an optional means of authentication, but doesn't have any authentication. and so that's part of the motivate my motivation. in trying to address that. let's move on to the next slide. Alright. Now this this was done and I think this touches an area was good. Internationalization There was a reviewer's son It's, you know, it's it's 2 weeks late. I think I understand now. From from Chris, that there's gonna be a meeting, and we don't know what the outcome of that is. But we'll see what we can get out of if we can't have any mean meaningful help from that review. Anyway, we need to go through that process. Now with regard to security, I think we need to discuss Wirt and Grow Adoption of some document I think It should be the one that I originally asked to be adopted, like, 6 or 8 months ago, whatever it was."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:03",
    "text": "And, also, as Chris I think Chris has been very strong at this point. that we need to arrange to get help from the security directory. So I think we once I know know what the sequencing is, but 1st of all, We need to get going with that document. Right now, I had a a individual draft and somehow in the process of of of of doing the adoption call, it was lost and expired, and I think we'll have to get back to ground 0. Anyway, let's move on to the next slide. Alright. There is I I I I I think somehow I originally asked that this is redacted, but somehow that was lost. Anyway, This will be need 1st It's very small set of changes, but the what we need for an RCVID 5660 2 biz as well as 5661 biz. It's just like about half a dozen changes. We'll need to we need as part of this transformation to address, to be clear about 8178 and the and that is already in the draft 01. And I think if you read that, you'll see that where that's done. and the I think Tom did this document, this RFC 8434. I think we need to incorporate incorporate what it says, in the RFC 36001 biz. I think that can be done by simply being more careful in some of the statements in chapters 1213 of of the existing document. And I I I would I I I don't think that it will get done by 2. But once it's done, I've I would like to have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "have time review that and make sure that it incorporates what he was trying to can can to meet or did communicate in rca 434. move on. Let's move on. Let's move on. Let's move on. Next slide. okay. Now this is the 2nd round in addition to the initial initial motivations. We've come with quality issues that we found that I found maybe I'll give you the phone as we work with the existing document. one of us, and it's dealt with a lot of if if you want details in appendix C1 of of of the current draft. A lot of use of RFC 2119 terms. not in court in court with an infection and RC 21 19. There's also a lot of in a one going from 0 to 1, I found live confused terminology to clean it up in which the same word was used different meetings in different sections or they were most for example, in the case of verifier, is, like, 5 different times of verifier. And one in in the and then the definitions, section one of those is picked out as the meaning of the word verified that I need Freight. J. are also things that thing were just wrong. 1st of all, We've had some problems with direct with director access and then people who's proposed various extensions, but I think the simplest thing is we've already done this for directory delegation. and I think it's never nimblad. And part of the reason it's never nimblad is not made sufficiently clear in the current spec about what can do What? and what can't do and It's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "actually more helpful than many people think. And so that needs to be clarified. The other thing is is the The discussion of the persistent reply cache. If you read those, carefully, You come you have to come to the conclusion that this is impossible to input. So then those need to be restated So we have something that a is useful. be as implementable and and then maybe we'll have people try to implement that. But right now, what's in there is presented as an optional feature So it's Perfectly okay if you don't implement it. but there's no point in describing something that is just it's unimplementable. l, I think it is a little bit a little more care and rewriting make clear what you need to do. with some that differ go. things without any anything that's impossible. Alright. Also, the discussion of memory map dial, I think, people will see that. It's in the o one. pair it, look at it, I says some things that just don't make sense and had to be you've been anyway, let's move on next next slide. Alright. Now I think it's important as we move forward that whether we have the into your meetings that Chris wants or not or do this on on the list. Whatever we do, People have to read the document and and find out what's in it. and tell me whether they agree or disagree or would like changes. So I think it's important I'll go over this one with you one more time, how to find out what is in it. And part of that is difficult because I had to reorganize some things. So you can't just Do a straight,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "diff of RFC 88 1 and 1. So I think it makes sense to do 2 level of this. 1st first of all, Is you have to compare RFC 881 to the dash shows dash 00. and that you'll find Oh, some changes, but there were a lot of changes that are are our our are not are not real changes. anyway, However, the changes we've gone from is dash 01. there I think you'll everything that shows up as diff is real. And All of those I hope are explained in appendix 51. So So all the other thing it's important to look at the appendices, which I think did do a fair at least a fair job. of explaining what is changed and why and what will needs to be changed and why. Alright? Alright. The first thing just big difference is this inorganization change. It needs to be in section 1. introducing this update and why what's changed and why. Now a lot of that the more detailed things are are in in when when the appendices, but Section 1 is the introduction Why this is different? and The other thing we started to do is address errata reports. which is a big thing. And I hope it's now almost done. other thing is that was done in a one is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "definite the use of the term capital Art Capital Recommended To fight the fact, this is is not is not in accord with RFC 2119. And right now, in a 1, I use I used the recommended. But then I later in response to comments, I the data. David Blackmaid and also just thinking about it. Maybe recommended is the wrong word. are some diets, some attributes, It really should be recommended, but the majority of them are just optional. elect and let I let I let You'll see that when the o two comes out. Now the o two, is probably not gonna be come out. till the till the end of August Anyway, Support to look at the 3 appendices. a, b, and c. Nature of changes, status of changes and further the issues regarding this need requiring discussion some cases, I said, well, this needs to be discussed and I need to write new text, but it's But given times, I've just in some cases, I've said, here's the new text. and we need to discuss this further. to make sure we have consensus on that. Alright. Let's move on to the next slide. Okay. One of the big things that that did was Rediscretion of of retry And Exactly once semantics. In one case, it says you must wait. for the response, but we know that Many clients can't wait it This is a must. It's must is supposed to be a fundamental requirement. of the specification. And if you don't follow the must, It's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "actually, the must is wrong. It really mean if you if you try to look at what house use, it really means it'd be really nice if being work this way. And it would be really nice, but that's not the meaning of must and a lot of things about retries It says you must not re you must not resend this request for that disconnection There's a lot of explanation of why it's a bad idea And ice I understand people fear of roofs, but that doesn't merit Capital must 9. So as a result of this, It turns out that we don't have exactly one cement What we have is at most one semantics. because you cannot step stop. You should not be able to stop a guy from being able to control c request. so, therefore, you can never ensure that the that thing is actually done. You have to be able to stop it, and that's why it you can't have exactly once. It's either the semantics is once or 0 times or once. the requirement is you never executed twice. particularly designed in boat Then I've I mentioned this before, but The section of memory mapping and locking Alright. I think I've been I had to cut that in about But half the the text of that had to be just was just plain wrong. It had to be gotten rid of. And so that's another thing you'll see in going 0 to 1. hope this note if people are having issues with that, let me know. But I think that's clear that a lot of puts in there. in 50 in the 56, 6181 is just playing wrong. Alright. Let's go on. Move on. Alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "some terminology claw clarifications client owner, In some places, they use the term client owner to include the verifier in some places, doesn't. So I split up Client error owner includes a verifier. And if you wanna just talk to the string and not the verifier It's called the client owner ID. And there are about 5 different uses of the word verifier. Also, nothing I found is the PNF 10. terminology, I think we We often have you will have 2 different sets of terminology. one we use with file with with files, and another we use with blocks. And I think you need some more generic that technology So Instead of having data server in one place and surged us in another and being confused. You need a generic term, which used in the in chapter 12, and similarly with storage protocol, data parole. And the other issue was issue of controlled protocol. Now in the document, It says control protocol and says, well, gee, even if you don't have a controlled protocol, have to do something to do these things, so that's a controlled protocol. which is fine. but it turns out that at least in the loose coupling mode, the some of the documents say, we don't have a control approach. well. So I I think We have to clarify. whether we have a control protocol or a separate control in the case of the the The flexible files layout, we don't have a separate control protocol. But in the sense that this is used in the in the in RFC 56 81. We do have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "something to accomplish that function. Alright. Let let's let's okay. Let's move on. Christophe always got the mic. Yeah. So let's go back to the previous slide. So I really don't think hitting yet another term or change in is really helping at this stage of the protocol's lifetime. Right? I mean, We finally got everyone who cares to barely under down the PNFS terminology. Let's not change it right now. k. Well Tommy, Zach and Mike, I'm also confused. Doesn't 8434. talk about this stuff and address it. So we we had a a previous document that defined These terminologies I'll take a look at that. Alright. Let me go on. Yeah. Now This Well, well, Given security, is done in a separate document question of high deal with security for PNFS. And so Some of it, particularly, the case where we have where the the data protocol is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "is It uses uses the RPC. should be covered by by the security document, which we need we need to get going. On the other hand, We have a number of things in other cases, like, frame of objects blah and blocks where security is very different and cannot be done that well. because, a, the main reason is You don't know There's no when you have a block protocol, you don't have to distinguish different principles. just distinguish different nodes. I think that's it. I don't know much about platforms, but I think that's the case. And so we needed we we have a threaded we have the beginnings of a thread analysis in the security document, which somehow we need to get going on. and we'll also need through analysis. for PNFS. in the case of of of data crawls using RFC using RPC, that can be done that can be done in the main security diagram. But for it doesn't we have to make clear I think the basic thing is that you have to trust the clients, Then and if If you don't, I don't see how you're gonna get this to work. anyway, let's let's move on. Alright. I'm gonna discuss. I'm working on draft o 2, and I wanna it. Some things to have to have that happy Donno. there are a few that I think there's a list of 4"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "Romania Rodam reports, and I think that needs to be done by DRAFTO too. is that? My time dropped out too is that? I later visit recommended that. Because although Not all are equally recommended. So the question of How? The question is well, well, What do you do? What would you do? with a server that does not support, for example, owner, group and mode. There's really no way to do it. And you can't recommend that anyone that you can't you have you can't record 8. I think you need to recommend that these are These are not just optional. If someone doesn't provide these, He does not have any real basis for security. And that So I think that had to be done. So some some of these have to move be moved back to to this to recommend this state. And, also, the description of named ad is mentioned in the appendix. Probably not in the 01 appendix. But, but, It has made more clearer that named attributes are an optional feature Although the way that described if you he read with RFC 5661 as it is. that's not so clear to the reader. Alright. Let's move on. Chris has a comment. Chris Nassew as a individual individual Not his chair. So Dave in the interim, David Black made the recommendation that Some of the recommended Yeah. in the draft that you know, you you're going from, you know, RFC, whatever, 29, and key language to to, like, kinda lowercase recommended. Some of those need to be required in order to maintain what a baseline of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "interoperability is. Are you Well, that that's my my my memory. I think Hebrewoo said, that they should be should and that's what I've done in the in the it it it that's what I've done. That's what I've done. I think required is is a possibility, but I I think right now they're I think my intention is to be to set it should, and this is in contract to all the rest of them, which are really optional. You could use the word recommended, but Given the history, I don't think that that that'd be just confusing people because recommended in an RC 5661, and it's r c7530. The word is used, But it's not real. It's just know, these are really optional, and we treat them as optional. in terms of in terms of the extension model, and they really are optional. So so lives are good. Dave, that's not correct in the sense of RRC 21 19, recommended means should and should means must unless you have a very good reason Not too must. optional is another thing, which means optional. that's that's what I'm trying I'm trying to be in in line with that. But in the past, it hasn't been Should basically mean I think this is has has has If you look over, r c 361. a lot of cases, we should mean means means gee, I think this would be really nice. we can't have that That that that's what optional means. So should should really means you must do this unless you have a good reason why you violate the must RFC should or, like, ideally, Exactly so. But in a lot of cases, say."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "the good reason is Well, I don't want to. No. That's not a good reason. I know. I don't think it's a technical reason. That's why we need to change this. I'm I'm I'm fully willing to believe that maybe in in 661, we weren't quite so, like, formal with that that work, although we should have been. Given that it's been 3000 IRC since 21 19 was published, but I I I agree that it should be cleaned up. and and you're asking to define what -- One of the problems -- -- do you mean? -- have been when you use lowercase should, There is a group there has been a group of people in the ISG who said who says, well, he really made sure, and Lower cases -- Hey. No. -- lower -- No. No. Number 1 -- -- case is something different, but you have you have an upper case recommended here. which is identical to an uppercase should. Exactly. So the the uppercase terms are the ones that have precise definitions. The lowercase stuff mean whatever you want them to mean by English language. Right? Exactly. I've seen I've seen divorce filings on less basis than this argument we're making. sure you have. I'm And and I would just like to really reemphasize and clarify David's Black David Black's point, which is He he wants required statements, uppercase required, to define a minimum interoperable set of clients to server that if you don't have required to get to the point of at least basic interop then you don't really have a useful standard. Okay. I'll Is he he is he here? He he is not that's why I am reading the notes from the interop that I took down and the statement he said, and I will actually read my note if you would like. I know. I I I I I not that I don't trust you, but I heard some things different. So I'll just I'll just Contact him."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "point Alright. No more divorce filings, but let's move on. So -- I I have to do this. I No. No. So so so look. Look. Jesus. I apologize. So Brian Plosky speaking as and old individual The so clarifying It's a big document. And there's a lot of words. And that we missed some of the nuances of what we meant to say in relation to the specific meetings, the IETF scribes to canonical English words, is likely. So is there any objections to simple cleanup of language 2 basically IETF normalize this stuff. I I'm I'm asking this question because That I mean, this does not require protocol changes. This is not gonna change anybody's implementations, but if somebody reads us, you know, long after we're gone, which is getting closer and closer, That it would be IETF normal. It it is to me, Alan, we're not arguing about The protocol at this point neither we argue about what the implementations are doing. just simply trying to get the we're IATF normal word usage in there. Any objection to that, by the way? I'm just curious. Lars, there are no no objection. Right? But I think for what David No. There you go. No. No. No. So so so I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "fully agreed that the current implementations are interoperable. Right? Otherwise, you know, it wouldn't be a market. But I think for David, the point they were trying to make is, right, if if the wording is ambiguous, somebody knew might start an implementation and arrive at a feature set following, you know, the requirements language based on their reading of the current RFC which actually doesn't interoperate because, for example, You know, they understood something to be assured, which nobody else thoughts or vice versa. So the the the point is that you need to have a core that is really actually required And that establishes interoperability and the shots and the optionals. Right? or the recommended any optionals would then the extensions that are sort of clearly understood as such. and negotiated in some way or you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know you know NFSostasis. Right? I think that I I wasn't there when David made the point, but that's sort of my gist of what he means. Right. Good. Fair. Alright. We know that topic? Oh, sorry. one more. Queue, muscle. I think Yes. We should. Updates. Yes. Update the wording to be consistent with what everyone else wording to be because it's all well and good saying everyone knows what this actually means. until someone comes along and doesn't know what this actually means. And we can, of course, say, different things for this what the serving client must should and are recommended to do. to ensure that what is written down if someone does all the must will have a workable and documentation. all semi workable. Bye. Got it. Thanks. Okay. So I've lived here some things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "are gonna be done in Node 2 and beyond. I think go to will not be ready. for for working. I don't know. I mean, it can't break when. but I know it will not be able to. So some things that mentioned in in c 2. clean up the directed version. Now that might be Proceed by some people, has changed in the protocol, but it It's not intentional. I think there there are cases where Someone might say that this is not workable because Everything in a direct can change, but it Although it's not intended that you know, I think you have to clear on what you can assume doesn't change. given that you have a directed delegation that is not recalled. Anyway, Also, persistence, I'm very I think there, I have to change the description of of their of persistent reply cash, so it's implemented. because the input the intention was that it'd be implemented. and we Although people may have different opinions about this, about What should be implemented? What should be implemented? We cannot describe something that's not in commitment And, also, Lot persistence. 1, In one section, it gives it clear clearly indicates that you It's free. It indicates that you cannot have a lot Persist a across the server room. In another case, It seems natural. And I think it's implied that it does, so we'll have to resolve And I think Someone mentioned it in the admin script they need to be some of them, they need to reorganize and on on on along category lines, but they also need to be clearer."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "for example, It says, well, you have to have an accurate value for for the modified time. Well, That's helpful. but That thing has nanosecond Then It has to be more clearly defined. What? accurate means. For example, modified time needs to be accurate in one way but access time, I've seen mini app look at implementations that are kind of approximate, and I don't think that's a problem. but the spec needs to be clear About these things. And right now, just sort of handwovens does does does doesn't deal without this firm. questions are are A thing on the list of things on the list are thread analysis. which we don't have. that probably will be for PFS and that will go along with the throughout now on the support NFS, which is part of the security tag. are fewer ground, And maybe there's some other things that need need doing I think I think Maybe we don't have too much time. But in any case, If you know those, those to be a this ad. hope those wouldn't be raised on the list. Okay. Next slide. That's it. Sorry, Chris. Chris Nossio, Ash Chair, it we know of any implementations that actually do the persistent reply cache? Not now. No. but I'd and have some people who are thinking about it, Okay. And The question is you do implement how do you communicate to the clients if that's the that that that's the case."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "So I think that's all the debt the thing we need to have you draft Well, so I guess -- Or clean statements that you can't do it. I don't know. which I would As a chair, I'm thinking. two things here, which is you know, a, as far as I know, vendor wise, you only build servers not clients. So you would also need someone who does clients -- Well, we do have some people who do credits. 2 Oh, okay. And then the second part there is -- They were you know, they they they they're working on Linux, but, yes, we do have such people. And they're pretty good. And then the second part is how would I interrupt that? So not sure what the question is. I'm Well so it unless I'm mistaken, this is a standard track document, and you will strand it in in The process is not being able to progress standards wise. unless you could do an interop, which requires get a 3, different implementations. So Well, there's only one goal operating system in the world today. So I ask a different question? Can Sure. Has anybody implemented this code yet And what problem have they seen? Or have you decided not to implement the persistent reply cash. Well okay. This Certainly, we've just I think many people persistence, but In that case, you just basically You have a grace period, but you don't really need one. and you don't have to delay things. Kids given that you know what locks are there. The other thing is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "that you will make want kelva client, that he doesn't need to worry about this at all, and they can just proceeded neatly upon connection. So Since that I'm in the I think our I think we the details needed probably probably discuss later either an indoor meeting or a a idea of 1 18. Okay. Tom's at the microphone time. Think we did this at some but we never published it. we we had a a persistent bypass. and they were packing the state And restarting the system right away and no grace period. But I I mean, Like I said, it never saw the light today. I don't know if anyone else who does it. sounds like AFS feature No. No. No. No. I -- Certainly as as it's become cheaper to have heavy fast I think we'll see more of this. Okay. Thanks a lot. Right. Okay. So Oh, I don't think I have time to discuss these, but I think these are things to raise on the list. problems with these with with all the things I've mentioned or haven't mentioned that done, I'd like to hear with those addressed on a On the list, So leave leave leave that up for a few minutes and say, If you if you know something that needs to be addressed I I I don't think we have time to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "to for people go to the microphone one after the other. but I do think we should raise these. I'm the I'm I'm the minimalist. Alright. I think I've mentioned this before. I think I Yeah. Okay. And as far as persistent Persistence sessions. is a requirement For atomicity, and you can read that As say, every every the whole compound and the story of the state has done it atomically, which would basically make and and un need to reword that to make clear what needs be a time. Not everything. And also, the discussion of This particular, the case of in compounds that have multiple non 8, operations. And the assumption there is that is has to be possible To execute a compound, a compound across a rebooting server. and which I don't know how one would do I think that has to be clear. That has to be some way. for terminate a compound at at and a server recall. So that's the other other thing needs to be done then. And I also clarify a lot. We discussed that, and I'll have I'll have a more specific buzzled that about that later later And think that's it for that slide. well, well,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "We Okay. Have Yes. I have. I missed anything? I don't know what it is. So I'll have to rely on you. Alright. Alright. Let's move on. I think that's it. Alright. So this gets in I think Chris may have his own versions of this, but my expectation as an author is we have 2 channels of discussion. 1 is meetings. such as this one, Okay. And probably interim meetings, but I don't know I think they The issue that I'll leave to Chris is how do we get people to attend these meetings? Conversion. Or make it easy for them to attend the meetings. How do we schedule them? And I would do this while confirming conforming to whatever the ID those required. So I think at times Chris has mentioned the positive weekly meetings. I don't know if that's realistic. I will leave him inside. I think we need at least monthly meetings. We cannot wait 4 months to the next idea anyway, I think a lot of issues are gonna be this resolved. even if we succeed now, Hold the interim means. is the mailing list because is I think if something's wrong, if you think have an alternate post possibly, it's best to be able to say what the exact words you referred you in. no matter how good the notetakers are, they're never gonna do that exactly. match that. Alright. So they're both huge address, and I think I'll At least o 2 and 3. Maybe the I know how many, at least that many before working group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "less call. But, anyway, I think working most last call is, but I think we've made a lot of progress. And least, I can start thinking about Alright. Let's move that's it. That's it for me. I think I'll turn it over to Chris. who has some things to say. I hope that's something to say. I guess we all do at this point. Okay. Okay. I know that we had some earlier comments, about I don't think I have anything in there that has a discussion slide Alright. think this is the conversation. I think there's two conversations related to this about doing interims and what's the appetite for doing this level of work. And I don't think that those are necessarily divorced topics. no matter how much we might wanna talk about divorce here. So You guys tell me. I mean, so Dave's been doing the kind of primary authoring here. So Dave doesn't want weekly meetings. Probably doesn't make sense to at least do weekly meetings. but it doesn't also make sense to do me term meetings at all, people don't attend them. and want to engage on this work and and I know that those aren't exactly I perfect then overlap, but Well, one thing, I didn't get the the invite for the last interim, the way. So I don't know I'm on the list the first before, but I didn't get it. So Maybe it's a mishap or maybe the list is not update. So Oh, do I get that?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "we did something wrong on the the meeting scheduling Some people got it through the list, but it wasn't going through the IET channels. We will not be keep that mistake. Yeah. Okay. So I messed it up. It was was on the NFS list. It wasn't on the interim list for the for the IETF, we that won't happen again. Okay. Just a comment because I was it, but I didn't see the invite. So I said, okay. Probably the by the way, The last meeting was not 3 months ago. the IETF, 2 IT years before 6 months ago when we hit the last normal meeting. So should was supposed to be several in in currencies. So 3 Alright. So Thank you. Tom, you're at my phone. So very mechanically, if I have a calendar invite, it's much easier for me to remember schedule the meeting Yeah. I'm just saying that that would help me a a whole lot. So if I'm not mistaken, And and I will promise to do a better job in the future. irrespective of what I how the last one went. I do believe there was an ICS attached to the to the Yeah. To the mailing list. an invite invite, I will do a better job. I will get calendar invites out etcetera. So independent of that. But -- That that that would make it more easy for me to Is is an ICS attachment like, an email sufficient. Yes. Okay. Yeah. No. No. I I I get it, but my my calendars configured such that it won't put pull it out from a mailing list. Right? So on a mailing list, I have to say add. versus if you send me an email directly to me with an invite. it'll it'll show up on my account."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "I'm in the same boat. I would have attended but there was no cal nothing on the calendar. The reminder, I I received literally 7 minutes before the meeting. but I wasn't reading my email 7 minutes for the meeting. So I got it. much too late to join. But I would have joined. I I think it's wrong to assume that nobody would participate. We just need to get all the mechanics done. Yeah. Yeah. what the chairs we're looking to hear. Yeah. And Good. You can't I I now have a question for Chris in the group. frequency of meeting I think Dave proposed 1 a month might I split the difference between 1 hour 2 hours and say 90 minute meetings? for the discussion, and we could always finish early, I I I I just an hour I I'm worried that an hour is not gonna allow us to cover the material Is anybody against So let's take a mode. throughout the Yeah. like, like, what what what what get there yet. Okay. Okay. Okay. up, but frequency, Well, it's something he could come up for us to go down. Right? Well, no. I would I would like to have some conversation I would like to do some informal feedback and and then I'll do some polls. but but but but but but but I don't wanna, you know, do 30 pulls, but if folks can just commute. Alright. And it's normally There's not a 150 people in here. Also I think Go ahead. we I I think 90 minutes right because there will be things other things that come up that that not in for additional things, and we'll have to have some time for those too. Largely, Gregor, if somebody was not gonna attend this interim, I think this is a great plan. No. But so so I I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "I think finding your a a cadence that that works for you seems fine and and, you know, discuss what this is and and basically, having a defined book slot length is also fine, and you can always basically tweak that length as you make your agenda and announce it. in accordance to the rules we have around interim meetings. So So but I think sort of getting it on people's calendars seems seems like a good step if especially if you wanna have it, like, at a pretty regular pace. I would just like to say of my defense in following the checklist on doing it. there's a whole bunch of don't do this step if you've done it this way. Do this step if you haven't done it this way, and I did meet echo on the on the idea that, actually, it did some of the things for me that it does not. do. 2. 2. 2. 2. 2. to to to to to to in my defense. So I agree that 90 minutes to 2 hours is probably about right part of the reason is that there's always a technical issue, especially if we're gonna use meat can help us. that'll delay the start of the you know, productive part of the meeting But, yeah, I mean, it takes that long to clear your throat and start the discussion. So the longer meeting is probably a good plan. but not too long. There's as I got, there's no requirement to use meet Right? Use whatever works for you. It just needs to be publicly accessible. Wait. I used Meet Echo to solve some of my scheduling problems in the IETF announcement didn't obviously work, and I heard more than enough feedback. from the 4 participants who were on the interim that we should use something else, and I have an enterprise Zoom So they'll most likely be Zooms, and they will be openly accessible. The Yeah. the order of problems just like today, it this is not even amusing anymore."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "Seriously. So, I mean, if if you don't like Zoom as well, I mean, if there's as much angst about Zoom, there's IETF accounts for Webex as well. I we we could use that for that. I'm not quite back. Snow. So -- So I'm hearing a lot of support for using the university Zoom account. Yeah. Yes. Zoom Zoom Zoom. Doing it. Okay. I did 2 PM EST Okay. 1500 for those who like to think in that there are more than 12 hours in a day, Yes. That that's crazy talk. I'm American. There's not. Anyway, sorry. So, I mean, time wise, I took that number from and that was on a Tuesday. I took that from previous poll results. I don't know if that's a great time I'm inclined to try that time Again, and adjust if necessary. But if I do a repeating entry in to the IETF system, know you know you know you know it it right now, I'm just being sensitive to my own workload of how often am I gonna go in and mess with? data tracker, etcetera. So if people have a you know, That's an awful time I'd like to throw out. let's have that cover I will do some polls at the end in this in this session here. But If people have if via mint objections to that time or that time is just as awful as any other time on your calendar. then Yeah. So be it. this is Richard Jafonega. It's not in the agenda. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "I'm not 100% sure if it has reached everybody on the mailing list. couple of months ago, I've made the observation or an on step observation that if clients not becoming more more prevalent, the use of Nconnect. the architectural assumption that all these different sessions that the client has to server. have the same characteristics, doesn't always hold. Meaning, you can end up with this lowest path holding up the overall performance characteristics of an NFS session. And my question being being is is put this here the right forum, to document some kind of best practice, how anFS client implementation would go around distributing the IO load different paths, And if there's energy, to come up with a document around this. Thanks. from a chair point of view, I think this is the right form. energy is a different question. not not enough general I I observed I observed that Lars has fled the room. Okay. you're taking us home? yeah, I'm gonna do a poll for the time this year. more go ahead. I mean, at the end of the day, this is a client only implement this decision. question, actually. It's just a question if somebody wants to go ahead and document some known best ways how to do it, or we just leave it at that and most implementers, I believe, are currently using ground robin or some Barry on the front row of in which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "realistically speaking and the most circumstances is good enough. Wow. Am I beating you to a question? There is a poll That that is actually the and you know what? It was. What it was? It it was it was 3 PM, wasn't it? Yes. It's just like whatever. actually, in hours and hours that's probably acceptable Fine. is the expected answer What so I I mean, the the short version of that is possible we can move it if if the things I probably don't go go to the my please. I mean, like, it we could potentially move it back an hour or 2?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:04",
    "text": "to make it a little easier for for Someone on Central European Time is not a late night worker 9 to 11 PM my time. doesn't work too well But then again, I'm probably not most important attendees. So I mean, the the balancing act is obvious. the the Californians and the Central European we don't tend to have a lot of Asian participants. That wouldn't make it any easier? But yeah. So it it doesn't work perfectly well for me. I don't think that's actually a major issue. probably try to Chime in for the first hour or so. if it works out otherwise. So I I assume for each interim, there'll be an agenda beforehand. Yeah. Although, depending on if if if There will be an agenda posted for each interim However, you know, more likely than not a lot of that will will potentially be recycled as we focus on a progressing a handful of documents. but but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but we but should get more detail than that. We'll see how well we do. 66 I guess my that's my way of saying we could get your comments to take in for the meeting. k. What else do you need? We can move back to, say, 14 or something with them. I don't know what what conflict not a bad list. time. If 1400 or something like that every other Tuesday, I have a meeting at that time. once manager points that If we do we cycle it off of those. Yeah. perfect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:06",
    "text": "k. Alright. We're doing that on default. we're doing another pull. Not a problem. I'm using every every last minute of your guys' time Works meeting. So I did this. Alright. Look at that. Look at that. metamorphic. agreeable set of people in my life. Is this supposed to be the 1st Tuesday of the month? It's monthly. So just saying Tuesdays, TBD. if we don't wanna mess up weekly schedule, let's probably got an aid on this forward/ just I'll work it out with Chris. Tuesday, that's great time. Balance both. Okay? else? Chris. That's it. I think we actually covered the rest. Thanks so much. safe travel, safe travel, I know some of you're leaving today, And thanks for participating. Thanks for the water. thanks to the A big coffee delivery. -- but delivered a cup of tea. Yeah. Let's say it was first me away. That was great. Okay. And I'll be getting the minutes out for your Yep. Alright. Take care. How do we stop this? Thanks, everybody. Thank you. We stopped it. like, I have to train. Okay. Right. Someone mentioned energy. So After this meeting, I'm gonna have some caffeine. Okay?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "Bye, everybody. Bye Wow. Right? 0 from Windbrook. Yeah. If I'll send you an email. I I I'm gonna Yep. gonna be in Europe, and Maybe I'll stop by because I wanna try the battalion place. Well, we'll need some work too far away. Well, maybe we could come your way."
  }
]
