[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:33",
    "text": "hello hello hello everyone happy new year hello [Music] [Music] yesterday around 6 pm for us i saw the message"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "okay did you have a chance to validate that the answers were correct from your standpoint but do you want do you want me to prepare a slide to to bring you know this email so now social my screen what happened is juan carlos published or two but it did not really reply to you until now so i pinged him uh to effectively point on on the changes that he made you know two to actually answer your questions and so basically what i wanted to sort out today is if we were all happy with with the answers and the version in o2 so we could effectively uh call for publication so that would be one big topic for today okay so i don't know if i should talk about it now or just wait for the right time slot okay maybe we we wait we haven't slept yeah yeah okay good point is the echo coming for me [Music] i would say so anyways well pascal usually does not use headsets so you could be a good candidate for that for three days i had my laptop that the sound doesn't work didn't work except with having the bluetooth uh earphones and i did i decided okay just before this itf i'll restart the computer just for for it to work maybe it worked a little bit too well anyway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:11",
    "text": "maybe it's trying to catch up for all the times it didn't work just repeating everything yes yes the beauty of it i changed i changed that uh i suggested can you show me okay does it work like this hello yes yes very well okay sometimes the bluetooth just screws up so if it does i will come back to buy them all setups normally i don't have this this ringing sound with with my microphone i don't think it was coming from me because i was muted when we could hear it but just in case i use the headset okay it's it's actually uh getting uh life after the the hour so we we're we're gonna start let me share again so um alex do you want to do the intro or do i just do it okay let me let me do it this time and then i will give the hand to you given that you've prepared the hot topics afterwards so uh hello everyone so this is an interim meeting of the lp1 working group so it is an official itf meeting and as such all policies of the itf are in effect and by participating you agree to follow these policies and processes so you should read all the bcps and all the documents that are listed here so please take the time um and uh you know if you do not agree with some of these policies you know we should not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "participate in the meeting i mean don't participate in the meeting um so that's for this slide can you move to the next do i have the hand here yes i have it perfect thanks so uh we'll be taking a yes it's just that i i pressed the button at the same time as you did but i i'm moving the slides i'm the one who shot them but oh okay you want to take over you can but let me just move no no it was a real inception moment like like okay it works so um yes anyway so the the so we'll be taking minutes and please participate also in the code dmd uh so sorry that's the notes itf.org uh a minute taking uh minute taking link so you have the link just here i'm not sure if you can click it so i'm going to post it in the chat um at this time yes so it's here uh and we'll be taking uh um so the your participation will be locked as well um so so yeah that's for this part so next please uh okay okay and so uh that is the agenda and uh i will leave then the word to pascal for point and apparently it was screwed up by the transformation to pp2 pdf sorry for that no problem no problem so this is the agenda for today so do you have any uh um so we we have like the the overview of um of how we are going with our uh with our agenda with our with our milestones then we have a big discussion on the compound ack unfortunately juan carlos is not going to be here with us but sergio is with us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "so thank you very much sergio so we will uh go over this and we dominic as well um and then we'll be talking about the yang data model and that's it for me on this point so pascal you can take over action items and one of them was to update the architecture after the discussion on the last meeting before christmas and there was in particular eric's point about the inner section gone and um i was surprised it was gone actually it was not really it's just that um there was no line break uh no intermediate lines in in the uh source and and we are using md so so apparently that that that was the prime the transformation from ng to xml to rfc um lost that line inserting a blank line just restore the a in a section so i did that um then there was the review for the of the data model which dominic did and we'll come back to that and then there was the compound publication process which we hoped we could start before christmas actually we could not because the discussion was still active but that's why we have a long time today to to see if we can progress on that so um our group status we we have the um we still have this this question of whether we are we will be working on oem and that's the only time today where we can discuss you know where we go with how i am so dominique if you want to to discuss it a little bit today um just now tell us what you want to do with it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "should we change the date or do anything turn me to talk now oh yes because we don't have a section you know i am so okay uh yes i still want to revive that document i've been very busy with other stuff so far but i know i've promised that for a couple of months if not yours already yes so basically maybe you will do it and present it for the next ietf uh so so that means that this date yeah at least get something revived so so the date we have here is is really not correct right i mean we need to change it i thought we discussed it last time but i did not find a minute what we decided so um probably push it by one year or something and what would be your expectation um what does the milestone mean produce a document well that's submitted to asg or is it working yes usually that's submit to isg that we put here that's basically uh request for publication okay so yeah let's put the end of this here like december okay okay okay so let's write it in a minute this time push the ram document to end of december and yeah otherwise you want to remind that at last meeting we said the top variety was a young model it is it is just if you know if you are missing the target date by a month or two it would not matter but this one we already know will miss it by large so let's just be honest with it and push the date that's what i had in mind okay um so sick fox we are late but not that much we because we'll be producing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "um the the compound hack already and this the other six plus document will not uh be long after so so i don't think that we need to change the date they're just a little bit delayed but not that much okay so the news is uh o2 of component was published just before christmas and that's basically the version that we hope we can uh go for publication with so it passed for group let's call that was the the questions that you raised dominique and for which we got this email yesterday from juan carlos um so i understand it was a bit late and i don't know so that that is your time actually no i have another slide but basically that's that's otto that was published and the data model was published at the end of november as well and we'll have we'll have some discussion around it because there was an interesting thread again between dominican and laurel next slide okay and now now we are we're we're on for the the company so so the the different questions we had was uh one of them was the the data model so laura you removed the data model from your original data model document so there is no no trace of component in the latest database correct yes and so normally the the version 2 of this draft of copper dac should have the data model piece that it needs and did you look at it can you confirm that it's okay that we can go with for publication with it law it's me yes i just have a question because dominic raised an issue about act compression"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "or bitmap compression so i don't know if it's solver or not uh at the second block but the question to you was about the data model yeah yes it means that for me one problem is if we have accomplished a bitmap compression does component aqua is is a component working or or not and if we have to uh to suppress a compression bitmap compression sorry then we we have to put it maybe in the data model so that's okay for me an open question for that because uh i think what carlos said he put some text on that but it's unclear what the resolution is uh hello i can add something regarding the compressed bitmap support we saw that the compressed bitmap is only supported in the last bitmap of the compound or if there is only one bitmap well we will have the format of the generic hack and bitmap compression will be supported so intermediate bitmaps in the compound we don't support the bitmap compression okay so there is no ambiguities so we don't need anything in the data model okay well so in that case for me it's good so so i would like to see it written in the minutes uh so so there is your question and the answer by sergio is actually the the bottom line is it's either or right you don't uh do bitmap compression when you do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "compilac is that what they understand no we exactly except for the last bitmap the compound hack has multiple bitmaps only bitmap is compressed all the other ones are in extension okay it's the last bitmap of the set of bitmaps which are in the compound but that's the answer correct okay i'm just waiting for the minutes to be captured because that is an important answer okay and so maybe i can bring up the other questions but so in that is that uh that aspect does this require any modification of the young model no no no it's good it's good because we don't need to modify it because it's something that is systematic so you don't have to say you disable the bitmap compression because it's something that is specified in component so there is no no switch between one behavior and the other so we don't have to add something in the data model which data model are we talking about here because we have the extension right and so sorry i tried to write it it will be the one that is in the compound document right yes it was the question for your question was about this one the thumbnail review by lauren is the data model from componek yes i was asking because you said it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "systematic so i wasn't sure what you meant so there is this when i read section four so it's not section four sorry it's uh yes four chic compound act parameters so the first bullet point is usage or not of the ship compound oh sorry yes it's my uh yeah no yes that's the second point yes usage or not of the compressed bitmap format in the last window go the way i read that can be enabled or disabled sorry which document are you talking about alex can you share your with this yes document the draft of the young model the draft draft so if you go to i think it's section four yes parameters and it is written so the second parameter that is question is it's a parameter usage or not of the compressed bitmap format okay where do you get that in which document so that is the compound"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "okay i posted a link in the chat i mean it doesn't seem a big issue to me but i think that you you probably need to reflect that in the young model or or i'm mistaking sergio i'm not sure if if you need to to reflect that in the in the model uh but this is uh some of the things we added after the last uh review where we had this section for that is something similar as the annex d of the rfc 8724 yeah but i i would expect that either it's a parameter so it's configurable in which case you need to find it in the end model or it's not a parameter and then you don't need it in the young model section four sorry i'm not in section four that's a general comment alex that we have also for the the shikhyang model is everything is every parameter uh part of the young model or is is there some african knowledge of a profile that does not get into the young model so i have similar questions from the next question i think it's a very important question and the problem is that nobody knows really what is a profile so i will i would prefer to have everything in the young model"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "and if we missed something we had it so then we should add the support or not to the bitmap compression in the last bitmap in the young module yes if we if we keep the point in section four yes if we remove the point in section four no okay number of points and one of them is usage of component or not at all and even that one i don't see it so i i have the answer actually i found the answer in the in the document so a little bit above the following the optional usage of this compressed bitmap classified by the accounting basic alexander when you speak i have a lot of kind of eco oh okay i'll try to switch to my headphones but i understood that alexander was telling us that none of the parameters by the way in section four are really right now we have a young model extension but there is nothing in it pretty much the basically whether the company is on a half whether we compress the last bit map none of that none of that is indicated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "but it's quite easy to edit it's not a technical problem to address in the model yeah yeah but we need to to add it in before we can uh call for publication so we need another three the constituency between section four and uh yeah that's exactly okay so so this is do we capture this uh we need the full consultancy basically what you say you need to capture it we need the full consistency of the data model in section 3 and the parameters in section four okay so that means sergio we need an o3 right a what sorry we need the version three because we need to link augment the data model by all the parameters in section four so what is is there a decision right now or we discuss after sergio what what you prefer we we talk we can we can do a uh follow-up email in with the authors of the draft but i think that the way to go is to correct the yang model add these definitions that we added after in the section four so that and generate a new version with i don't know this and any other suggestions corrections reviews of this meeting okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "okay and i'm reviewing the email exchange between dominique and juan carlos and juan carlos master the the first the first questions were really about the compressed bitmap so so we are set then there was the question if the chic fragment sender gets a component with invalid w's like duplicate w uh not even sent shared this card and juan carlos said we added a text they don't know what that text says from the text is in i'm sorry in three dot one g component message format okay and we have if a cheek sender sends a c component with invalid w's such as duplicate w values or or w values not sent yet in mod discard it must discard the whole sheet compound okay i see the sentence so dominique you're okay with that right i guess yes but it needs it whichever way yes we which it is uh basically can you write a delta text that should be applied to 8724 account euro description to make it work with compodac now what can i say is a section adding this delta text has been added search you can you tell us what that section is yes in this case it's section 3.2 g compounded behavior uh in this case we added the sender behavior and the receiver behavior okay besides and you say besides the economic behavior so what you mean by besides the acanera behavior you mean that you're augmenting the iconic behavior right i'm not sure that besides it's actually very clear that it's actually that but i guess that's what you mean you mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "achondra plus death right uh yeah these other things you must consider uh on top of the things that are considered on this document yes i'm just i'm just trying to say that the sentence says besides the archanera behavior uh that's the exact wording besides the archanera behavior and it's not technically [Music] telling that we are mounting a corner we are building an icon or a documenting it um so if if that sentence could be slightly rewarded to say hey we do have an error plus what we specify below you know rewarding like that would be a little bit clearer should we read this text as if we add those lines to 8724 at the appropriate location then the behavior is correct and complete or are some of these sentences changing the ones that are already in there like on receiving a shika crack for example i guess this already exists in this case we are modifying that the sender must reset the check fragments not only of the window since there are more windows we are seeing all tiles and of all windows that are reported in the three component yes you know that's when it's important to be clear when you extend and when you update and if you effectively update uh then you you need in the uh documents in the the header set of documents you need to say update 8 7 24 and so if you change the behavior in a way that an implementation should know but i don't think you do then um you need to say update 87 24. it's very touchy eric was with us right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "erica are you still there i think i think he's back because basically the the rule for going from um having to say update is basically the way i understand it but it's my wording is if what you're doing here should be something that existing implementations will be impacted by i mean they should know about it and uh i'd say probably right because if you write an implementation at some point you may want to update your implementation to support this because it's it's actually and is basically indeed how i read the update metadata that you put on rfc and and documents is either extending it or changing the behavior but extension is also the an update right most of the time okay it was always a fight with alvaro on this on my recent rfc so i'm not 100 clear but okay let's buy exactly what you say rick uh sergio that means that you have to say extense 8724 in the xml header okay and in sections 3.2 you need to basically say um that this is how you extend or update depending on if if you update or share expert you need to be very specific we extend it so the section should even be you know extending 87 24 or something and then your text should not be besides like it is right now it should be this specification updates 87 24 to do this okay you need to be very specific so because the implementer needs to know oh i need to change my code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "it's not so much about it and you need to say update right so there are pieces where it's extended and this is why it's update right that's what i understand a bit of both and so you need to say oh wait the metadata that you need to use into the document itself in the xml is update yes if you are not clear how to do that and amend or whatever but the only one which is recognized right now on this is update yeah so in the metadata we say update but in 3.2 at some points the text should say this this specification updates or extends depending on if it's new code or if you have to modify the existing code then we agree yeah so so sergio maybe we need to capture this yes because that the thing is that when in in a sense it updates as you need to send new fragments uh you need to change how you interpret the the act is interpreted how you use this act is a bit different but in the other sense after the old one or the old zero you will be receiving the compound act so i think that it will be an update in this sense that you will need to send the new windows and it will extend the same behavior as the old one and the all serial messages well in this case the old one message i'm correct i'm just capturing the minutes at the same time there are two things i want to address one is do we extend or do we update 87 24 i think we extend because for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "implementations that do not care about the compound hack we are not changing anything so to me but i'm not i don't buy that one because yes if you don't care about an update you don't implement it but if you care it's actually updating the code now somebody can stay at an older fc if they want to stay out of that rfc and never implement the neurostar cs but um the fact is the behavior changes the existing thing right you have to profile use it yeah only but it's still an update okay so uh external is a you have a new plugin for a new feature and and you know you don't change the code you just have a new case and go but yeah you have to to basically insert the fact that you loop on all the bitmaps at some point so i guess that piece is update okay so i have captured in the minutes that you need to change the player you'll see you have the whole isg in front of you to tell you what to do so so we'll see i hope they agree between themselves yeah that's the other one that's the other one so very interesting thing so at least once once somebody just tells you something you can refer to him as having told you that um but i think it's a good start to say that the section 3.2 should be extending should be called extending rfc 8724 and then in the text itself you should not say besides like an error you should say this specification extends the icon error behavior by doing this blah blah blah at some point when there is really an update to stay updated and and right and so that's the second"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "point i wanted to touch upon which is to me the the delta was when i asked about a delta it was really an editorial delta like after this line insert that line or replace that paragraph with that paragraph the way it is written right now i'm not sure what the final text is i unders i kind of guess i should insert new paragraphs but i'm guessing i should also remove some of them and i don't know where and the order might be important so i was really expecting you know something that you can put into a machine to edit and automatically replace text in 8724 in boom you get the new 8724 if you will yeah so what you're saying is basically it's not very clear the code that you derive from this plus 8 7 24 by two different person might be two different behaviors because we don't know exactly where to insert death okay um did you did you get that one yes this one i will have to to to to talk with juan carlos and the other and [Music] and other authors to check it to see how we can modify that way or or i don't know the objective is to to have the the delta that way or to have the delta in some sort of way as it is now uh if you keep it the way it is now you would need to to put natalix or something but that would not be normality effect basically the new the new 8724 text so basically take the whole section of academia and rewrite it with the new behavior in it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "okay and you know so that's that would be the agile because if you have the new behavior you just copy paste the text as it is and you change exactly what you want to change at the right place and then then that could not be a mistake it's not confusing so the question is if you do that it's it's one way of doing things you get a whole new text and for the implementer he or she does not care about the old one just takes a new one and tries to but then you you can diff right or you can say change this by that at this line but it's unreadable i i don't so just just to be clear we will be in this case the the idea will be to take that whole like an error section and rewrite it with a new behavior and add that to this document right with the minimal delta that we can very we can see very well what is changed but the point is to to illustrate to really say hey i changed this in that at that place and so what the unique is telling us is sorry just do a a diff you know output like you would apply a patch to text okay that works better for you so you understand that you don't want to change text that you really you don't really have to change because the diff becomes complicated so you really if you think deaf you really think about minimizing the places while you change and do very specific change that's when you're typically done in similar documents when documents"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "update another one by exchanging one section it's typically paragraph by paragraph and you say all text new text all text new text so it makes pretty clear would you place that diff type of stuff in appendix or in the main text in the main text in the main text okay so so uh maybe a section three in the place i mean i've even read this document right but at some point of time you need to explain what you are doing in section two three or maybe a three or two that you are talking about this is where you provide a diff now if the diff it's basically whether you prefer to have a five or six old text new text or text new text in the thing which makes very difficult to read or you completely replace a section this section replace section blah blah of this rfc it's basically up to your taste both ways are accepted uh if you are replacing eighty percent of the text replace the complete section if you are replacing five percent only do new text or text uh and of course everything in the middle is up to you basically to decide which way you prefer to do it i think that maybe an alt text new text will be good for this section as the behavior is not changing that much which is perfectly fine you know better than i do sergio make suggestions third year would be that you keep 3.1 and 3.2.1 and 3.2 the way you have them but you create a 3.3.3.2.3 so after the receiver behavior you say uh here is the update so instead of calling 3.2 the the update rc8724 it would be your new section"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "3.2.3 which would be uh the update and so at the update would be you see we would give this diff stage you don't change anything from you keep everything exactly the way you have it but you have a new section three two three which is uh updating rfc8724 and you do that yes okay okay perfect so i'm changing what i capture okay here i have a question so i perfectly agree with i think that would be the most readable uh way to do it and also thanks dominic for actually pointing to this point because yes it's uh the original rfc so that is the akon air mode like i think there was the whole um automation default finished state automation that was included into that into that consideration so actually i think that after doing that maybe you will think of okay we didn't handle that wouldn't handle that case right so it's probably going to uh you know it will help a lot of readability maybe one question to a reckon also to pascal is because here we're talking about chic compound act and in section so in the in section 8.4.3 of the rfc 8724 so there is no mention whatsoever for chic compound pack um so which is normal right because it didn't exist for the tanks um so should in your opinion should there be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "uh like mentioning of the previous parts of the of of the sheet compound ack draft that actually define what's the compound ack to be also put in section 3.3 that does the delta uh or or maybe there is section 3.3 that's like generic generics so compound ack like the generic stuff the terminology and all that that gets inserted in um in previous sections of rfc 8724 and then 3.4 which is basically the new version of so the updated version of of the icon error or we don't care about like we suppose that people would would be intelligent enough to understand what cheap compound act is and you know just focus on the aquiner or subsection i'm not sure if i was quite clear about on my question right um just makes me so i mean i mean the point is that yes we are only 15 minutes off yeah okay i can write this out i can write this up it's i can i can write an email about this because we were going through through the answers by juan carlos and so the rest was were minor comments um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "and i guess the the the text was agreed so so what everything you asked was exactly done the way you asked in david so so i think we are good for your review once we we've done that the next item is is the shepherd selection do we have a shepherd would anybody volunteer to be the shepherd otherwise i guess the chairs will be the shepherds and we have the data model and we have this one and on this one pascal and alex i would really love to get document shepherd that are not the chairs oh it's not mandatory right uh but it's also the opportunity for our newcomers uh basically to understand the process and to learn more and potentially become chairs later so it's not really to relief work on you pascal and alex but because we need to shape out this right sorry okay so should should the shepherd come from this group or would you have people from response or willing oh your voice did not go through eric maybe you were speaking but it didn't i just heard some words in the end maybe maybe you have network crimes or something yeah no i was simply repeating that it's not mandatory that the chairs are the document shepherd it would be really good to get somebody else uh which is not an author of course also not a chair uh maybe a call on the mailing list would be nice except if i don't know anna for instance wants forward because there's an opportunity to learn more stuff so do we have a lot here right now the call"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:05",
    "text": "does he does he need to be coming from this group or could it be somebody from mexico it should typically be somebody which was attending the working group meetings because he needed some point of time document sheffield says whether there was a working group consensus or not and it's difficult to see okay i'll we'll call we'll so we'll take the item we need to so cheers to to call for a shepherd i'm writing that in the minutes if we don't find yes we i guess we'll have to do it ourselves okay i sent an email on the mailing list for that um and then uh basically be aware that uh part of the the first question the shepherd will ask is whether there is idea on this document so please go through whatever ipa you publish recently all the others and everybody at this call and if you have something related to this document then please be prepared to answer about that there is april and with this we move to the next topic which is the one group let's go for the chic data model and lauren will be sharing these slides okay i will try uh i asked no it's not the wood one is this one sorry uh so how to get the slides slightly requested but you're still sharing something so yes it says that the slides are already taken i'm getting an error yes probably it doesn't have a right you need to stop first what you're saying i'm trying yeah okay that's good okay so i will skip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "the first question so just uh tell you what happened so before the vacations dominic sent some comments then we have some discussion offline discussion together and then there was a vacation and we uh we didn't talk about much during the vacation so we we have to come back to to update things so dominic just uh put some so there is change in the repository so it has been updated by by dominic to change to make some language correction and there is some question in in the mail so i will go only to one question but i think it's very important to to discuss here the other we can do offline uh with the mailing list and so i think one more important question is uh about interleaved chic fragment because we can have implementation for example that can support two fragments only because they don't have enough memory for three but we we have a d tag that has for example two bits so it's possibly we can have four uh frag for packet to be sent at the same time so the question is what do we do for for that do we introduce a new element in the young model that say okay theoretically you can send four packets but practically we have only as a memory for two because it's not specified in the in the rfcs or do we skip it and say the implementation has to to do the maximum each time so i don't know if i'm clear about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "but i think it's what the maximum interleaved packets is right sorry it doesn't hurt to say a maximum interleaved packet equals three three okay but okay so we can add it in the model is not a problem but until now we try just to put the parameter that was in the rfc so we we had this one do you think there are other parameters like that which would make sense because you have to think about not the rfc but the implementation yeah at some point the implementation has to to create buffers to support the packets and so it can say oh i if i support maximum of two meaning i can have four packets but it should basically check if it can do what the profile says so the more clear you are about how many packets you your only buffers you need to to have the best for the implementation yes but the good question that we need group review because i put the parameter i i thought was important but if someone has over ideas then they have to tell it so to answer your question pascal yes there are other parameters like this one another one for example is a lifetime of a d tag at the receiver how long is that the tag value reserved for uh for example in newark mode we still have detached potentially we could send people into leave packets even in nowhack and so because it's no access no timer no retransmission exploration uh and so the d-tank has to live for some time in the receiver so that the receiver knows if it's a new packet with the same v-tag or if it's a fragment of packet that is already been assembled and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and so yeah we talked about this in the rfc we say the profile should say how long the tag is alive for at the receiver shall we capture that in a young model okay for me what is up here is the link within inactivity timer that we have in node there's no inactivity time but we have it in the model so we can use it or it's we need to to put something else i mean specifically if it's written that you know it can be specified then of course making it adding as a parameter to the model makes sense to me but is it is it meaningful to say in the comments of the inactive timer in the case of noak this is the value of the lifetime of the tag of any state not just the detag but any state related to two packets for me it's good it's a good hypothesis to study um i think i wanted to say there are parameters that are not protocol elements and so shall we have them in i would think so if it impacts the behavior on both sides this timer impacts the behavior on both sides and they might be this out of sync if if they don't have the same value so if you have any any knowledge that needs to be on both sides it needs to be on the data model because even if it doesn't show on the protocol it impacts the way the two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "sides operate the protocol okay so so is it complicated to build a list of those parameters [Music] okay so i'm adding a to do so who is taking this to do basically dominic plus laurel or domain english something like that [Music] yes and probably maybe i mean maybe we'll need to to have the list and and circulate it on the mailing list because there might be some considerations that we open up you know maybe if even if it's logical imagine that we you know you put the detect lifetime of some duration and then you you so happen to have several sessions one after the other and then suddenly you have no more detects because the lifetime like let's say you have you have i don't know four detox and so you have four fragmentation sessions and you have put like the the lifetime of i don't know one day so then you need to wait one day for a whole session you know for the lifetime to expire yeah that's life i mean yes that's why you want a d tag which is maybe a lot more than the number of interlift packets by the way so that's a good reason to have the number of interlift packets to the previous issue right yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:09",
    "text": "okay so we have a to do we are close to the hours so maybe if you have other points that you want to share let me uh i think uh i don't remember this one maybe maybe the dominic if you can say something on the penultimate or we discuss offline following your response i looked up to 8724 and we specifically say that the profile should say if we activate this feature or not so it should be it should be okay so it is an option and the other thing i added was that this may vary by rule from one rule to the next and so it's actually more than the profile it's an even more uh better reason for having it in a young model okay so [Music] yes and that's all uh yes so regarding the question earlier dominic where you asked about the cash we have in the endgate model like all the parameters that we can find in the inner city 8724 i would say even if you're a document that actually some of the parameters let's say uh chicago right even though that would be like a constant for that technology but so i i think that unless like a huge increase of the young the yang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "document having all the parameters uh in the in the in the young model it's it's a thing well if they are common between technologies then it seems easy enough but you know if they are specific to each technology technology like this discussion you know sending an uplink after a downlink fragment so that we have an opportunity for it's this one i think it's like always it's a terminology because we have there was a terminology issue but there's another one which is what you call it link you have after all zero after all one and the other one was always or and there was confusion with uh cold ways right and then you say when the l2 allows it yes which is very vague and we have a parameter i mean okay it's when you want are you when you can okay we need to to discuss this a bit more dominic replied to this response to on saying that i mean you know the meaning is i guess because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "the the hour is fast right yes so let's continue on the mailing list um yeah you can schedule the agenda for the next century oh it will be i mean the uh all this will continue so i hope by by the next interim will progress on on those issues so we we have something to discuss but that was a great great great intern because you reprogressed on a good number of issues for those documents i'm very happy for today just before we we split uh because we don't have a next interim program uh do you want uh for us to continue how do you feel one time per month is it okay or one time every two weeks maybe how do you feel i think two weeks if on this document we we have to progress quite quickly and make some consensus so i think it's good to have these meetings so till the next ietf we do every other week and maybe after the atf if we have less load we'll go every month do you know how we'll be the next atf it's physical one or it's still remote they said there would be an in-person component that's what i read last time in philadelphia right or is that was a long time ago yeah because that was before the comicon but you know if a bitcoin is not killing an od vienna sorry dnr so 113 is here now and i think they said there would be an impersonal complaint let's see what the situation is in at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "that time and then one summer is philadelphia and four is london so so then just one one question because it's in two weeks time we have not yet made the announcement uh so do you feel any trouble with that pascal or you would like for us to to announce it for i don't know for the 25th or the 1st of february and then do b-week every other week from from there on it's not me right i mean it's the atf rules so maybe we can always try to twist the process and ask in two weeks but i guess it's clear to ask in three weeks if we do the ask now for three weeks from now i think we'll be good okay so we'll ask i'll ask for um for 25th of uh 25th of january and then every second every other week from there yeah that's that means three because the atf is 19 of march so i guess that will be three meetings so no four maybe four meetings well if we are if we want to have one close it's not one in march it's gonna be four meetings okay so i'll do that right away okay so thank you all um and that that concludes the meeting alexander do you want me to upload the minutes how are you doing it yes uh go ahead and i will schedule the the calls okay okay let's do that because i can upload that in in md and i guess you still have a problem with apple right i don't i don't know i don't know that that's some kind of weird magic thing i don't know how to make it like it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "upload the thing and says it's not in the in windows so let me upload it from a windows pc and i'll get the windows machine just for that okay okay okay inexpensive these days bye-bye thank you okay bye bye you"
  }
]
