[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "From from previous experience, I think what I'm supposed to do is ask to share slides And then, I think I'm supposed to I can't remember exactly how it works. Let's see. It's been 6 last time. Do you do you see the Alright. Meanwhile, it is now 5 o'clock here, and it's time start. And since we've only had a 60 minute session, we're going to go ahead and start. We have the Daves here cheering today. This is a software update suits suitworking group. Welcome. This meeting is covered by the note well. It's not Monday. Hopefully, you've all seen this for. If you got a day pass or whatever, then, please read through the note well. You can find all the slides online once you've scanned the, QR code to get into the room, you'll see it and you can see the slides. Which is also covered by the IETF code of conduct it means we talk about technical issues, not about people, So, be civil, and we're all friends here. We do need, volunteer notetaker. Preferably people who are not the presenters, although we can fall back and have people alternate if we have presenters doing it. So call for note takers I get to volunteer or preferably to to help with, taking notes? Otherwise, we will start calling on people. Closer you sit to the front of the room, the more likely you are to get called on, No. That's not a reason to move to the back of the room. Let me start calling on somebody. How about, Acura? Can you help us take notes? Okay. Oh, I have a phone. Okay. Well, okay. Well, that that's a decent excuse. Okay. Lawrence?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Are you able to help take notes? I guess so. Okay. Somebody else to help. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Those are 2. Alright. Great. Please use the, regular note taking tools so that you can, you know, check each other, whatever. So not just on your own machine, but, then anybody in the audience can help out. Thank you. Alright. The agenda, we have a full agenda for the 60 minutes. We'll go through them in this particular order there's not exact time assignments there, but we hope to make it through them. So far, we've been lucky enough to actually be able to do that, and we hope that that will be the case again Okay. Any other agenda bashing? Does this order look okay, and you can see all of these are working group documents. Most of these are, fairly well along and I either have completed working group last call recently, or we hope to go to working group last call soon. We wanna be done with this current set, as rapidly as we can make progress. So That's the goal is to make progress on all of them. That's the agenda. Go ahead. Actually, before we move on, I just wanted to take care of one quick point is business. So as some of you may know, Russ has already, left us is chair, and, Dave Fowler will be stepping down at the end of this meeting. So I just wanted to you know, quickly recognize the contribution that both of them have made to this working group they actually helped get this working group started through the auth process and have been with us, up until this point. So please join me just quickly in a show of appreciation. Thank you, gentlemen. Thanks, Dave. Alright. So I'm gonna run through quickly the current draft status. But I'm gonna try to do this quickly because we wanna actually get to the drafts. Okay?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Suit manifest format was already submitted to IESG. There's an AD review that, was done and we're in the process of responding to AD comments. The benefit, the the trust domains completed working call and was waiting for a draft version that updates to respond to working group last call comments. So hopefully we'll hear about that. Suit report has not yet gone through working group last call. I think there is one open issue to discuss that Brennan will talk about, I think. Meaning I know it's in the slides. I think as Brandon is talking about it, and the goal is to, Be ready for working group last call after we get this done with the discussion of this particular issue. The mandatory to implement document, which has some dependencies, working group last call has been completed, and so we'll hear about that. Update management also worked went through working group last call. And by the way, thanks to all who attended the, interim meeting that we had in in September that was joint with Teek. We made a bunch of progress there. On all of these documents here, firmware encryption, working your last call completed. You can see we did a bunch of things. Like, about every 2 weeks, it was another working group last call, which is what our plan was from us time. And then finally, the mud has a IETF last call is in progress, which concludes, 1 week for today. And that's our draft status. And so unless there's any other questions, then we want it to actually go to the discussions on the pull drafts. Okay? So I'm just gonna jump back the agenda here. So the manifest format will be up first. So I I don't in fact see a button that allows me to take control other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "the, ask to share slides button, which I I don't know if that does it or not. Yeah. Just tell us my slide Yep. That's fine. Next slide, please. So Roman, thank you again for your review. There's been a lot of, a lot of changes made in response to those largely, clarifications So that's good. There were 2 major team changes. The the first one being removing the guidelines on deferring signature verification, and the other being adding intranaset Internationalization to Soup Text, There is one remaining issue that Roman has raised, which is mapping security requirements. From our information model to the manifest. So I was just coming up coming up to the mic to acknowledge all the hard work that I took to do that kind of, Brandon. So thank you to you and the team making kind of all those edits. I I appreciate that was not a trivial list. Well, thank you for putting together such an exhaustive list. Brendan, k. Alright. Thanks for the update. Brennan, can you say, a little bit more for the room about the, internationalization update. In other words, how do you specify which language the tech And can you just, to explain Yeah. I will do. Next slide, please. Wait. Okay. Sorry. So first, before we get to that, signature minimization, So, essentially, the idea behind this was that you don't necessarily need to check the signature if all you're doing is checking for compatibility. And that seemed to save energy under every one of the, tampering versus applicability matrices. So that was, essentially an energy saving, question. However,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "for that to work, it means that you need correct implementation of the limitations placed on the suit shared sequence. It increases the attack surface on the manifest processor. As well. On top of that, it appears to be an implementation detail. So the idea here is that maybe we shouldn't point people towards this. And instead, it might be more advisable to just leave it out leave it as an implementation detail and leave that for, an implementer to work out if that is indeed something that they require since it doesn't actually impact interoperability. And instead re revert to the the other approach, which is that we make the assumption that the manifest processor itself is protected by only processing code that has well, sorry, not code manifests that have been, authenticated. So that's the the current, direction after Romans feedback. He asked some questions about how this worked and the response was to just take it out. Next step, please. Next slide, I mean. Alright. To answer your question, Dave, internationalization. Right. So RFC 2277 said that protocols, the transfer text must provide for carrying information about the language of that text. Well, we didn't have that in suit text. So what we've added is a, essentially, the same concept as seaborne tag 38, except that we wanted to do it for the entire structure. And so instead of having a tag, we wrap the entire suit text object, with a, another map This, allows us to carry multiple languages rather than just one in the context of firmware updates, that seems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "be an important consideration. So this allows us to put all of the text, for a given language under one tag, not actually a tag, just a an indicator we've borrowed the the content from CBOR's tag 38, which is essentially a regular expression, Here. Well, well, you can have a look at it on the next slide. So there we are. So the previous what we had in V23 and indeed for most things before that. Just had a relatively simple map now what we've got is a two level map and they're a a language indicator that points to the previous suit text map. Next slide, please. So I just wanted to bring one other thing up And that is that there was a patent declared by ARM previously in IPR 3799. It has been abandoned. In all of its forms as far as I'm aware. So that's it for the, That's it for the updates to suit manifest. Just a, comment not to Brendan, but I think to explain to the rest of the working group here that text that's in here that has the language tag stuff is text that is purely meant for human display. Right? And because it's meant for purely human display, that means that there's a lot less that you need to say You don't have to specify, you know, normalization form or comparison semantics or anything like that. It's only for display, which means that doesn't matter which normalization firm it's in, that's the that that's the displayer's job to do. You don't have to do anything else other than this So that's why the problem is significantly easier than if it was gonna be used for something other than display. So that's why minimal stuff that print and presented. So one one note that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "I should probably mention is that the version 24 examples are incorrect. There is a new version of those examples in GitHub already. It's waiting for us to do the mapping that, Roman has asked for And, then in the next update to the manifest version 25, we'll have samples that are corrected. Brendan, before we move on, do you have a sense of when, version 25 will get posted. That that last one is, it's a doozy. I'm hoping to to get it done as as soon as possible. I'd like have it done before the end of November. Just soon. I I don't wanna promise this week, but visit. So, maybe next week. Okay. Just to confirm with, Roman and anybody else, as far as we know, there's no open is there anything else that you're looking for that has not already been discussed or addressed Okay. Good. K. Alright. Does that mean we're on to suit trust domains now? Yep. Yep. Yeah. Alright. Next slide, please. So there was one actual interim, really, and that is our the delegation chains that are declared in the the in the suit trust domains document, fit for purpose. So what they were essentially is a a sequence of seabor web to tokens. Carrying proof of possession claims, each token, was intended to verify the token previous to it in the list. The, or to bear the key for that, The first CWT bears the key to verify the manifest."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "And the last CWT is verifiable with the root of trust that is on your device. I've posted a question to the suit list about this, I have not seen a response. If there aren't any responses, then I assume that no one has an opinion and, perhaps we should just move on at that point we can make a decision as a working group if no one has an opinion if this needs to be removed. And extended later, or if there's a specific cheaper environment for it, then perhaps we need to leave it in. So I'm looking for feedback from the working group on out of CWTs. Okay. Anyone have, feedback on this particular point. Hannes? Yeah, I read the document before The submission that line or what, commented on the a little while ago, and if I have to reread it again, to be honest, to to judge whether it's, It's sort of better. It had some open. It had various open issues back then. So so I need to I I think I need to double check So I I volunteer to send a review to the list. Let the note takers capture that. We have the action item for Haunas. Thank you, Hannes. But but but I would say, you don't hear anything, Brendan, put one of these into a document and post it and then, you forking group last call or whatever, well, tease out we picked the wrong one, but, that will force people to review. But, let's see if Hana, do you have a time frame? Saturday, Okay. Thank you. Okay. We'll get you another we'll we'll get we'll get you a cookie."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:05",
    "text": "Russ said, which Saturday? Okay. Great. Alright. Is that the last slide on this one? I believe so. Okay. Alright. Next one. We have Update Management. Alright. We've only got two slides on this one. Let's get into it. I'm Yeah. They I've published an update. There weren't any known issues. Was a relatively minor update So if there are no further reviews, I think it's good if this is the one that I think it is, there's an open issue. There is there? Yeah. But if I miss that, the the the open issue, I commented on the 4th, that, the comment that I raised is not yet addressed. There's new text in there, but it doesn't actually address my comment. The comment that I had made was right now, it has a should in there, that says you should violate Semver by including a 4th integer. It's not a may. It's a should. The other parts of the industry, such as with the open SSL, the open source security foundation, have should follow some verr. So my point was we shouldn't have a should that directly violates the other, once for without sufficient motivation, There's no motivation in there. And in fact, that when it was This is where David Brown said, well, it's just historical thing that was there in this particular implementation, which is not a justification So my comment was I make up here? Should only have 3 And there's a and you may have a 4th if you need it for, you know, whatever reasons, but I would say that was the comment that I raised, and that's what's not addressed Okay. Yeah. We'll get that sorted out."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "That that should be a minor, monarch change. I agree, but, I can't agree that the issue is closed until there's actually a just of the Texas change. So Yeah. Understood. We have David Brown on the queue. Go ahead. Yeah. This is, David Brown, I just want to say I agree with that Okay. Thank you, David. And by the way, thank you for the explanation on the list as to, you know, how it got there in in the first place. So to I Yeah. Actually since we asked it on the other ones, do we have an expected time frame on when we can have an update to this one. I think I might be able to manage that one tomorrow. Okay. Wonderful. I I'd give you a virtual cookie. So except for the browsers disabled the cookies. So out of luck. Due to the Okay. Oops. Okay. This this this this this this this Okay. The firmware encryption 1. So we we made a lot of update on a lot of updates for this document you may have seen my email to the list, describing some of the details posting diff, and also explaining briefly on what I did. Link is here. I'm not going to repeat that. But it was 5 draft updates in between, taking some of the the discussion from the last idea of meeting into count regarding the context information structure. Which means the document is is in good shape Ken wrote the implementation for AES, CTI and CBC, and made that, available in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:04",
    "text": "Laurence's, Laurence worked on it over the Hakathon weekend And, I think I saw the email flying around that he released new version so So that's That's good news as well. Link here to Kent's implementation where the with which the examples have been created that are now in the document there are many more examples that have been added and and and That's the place where it came from. The document depends on 2 other documents to documents then with the manifest and trust domains which we just talked about. Okay. So Thanks to the chairs, for calling, for the working group last call. And luckily, we got a lot of feedback. I was a little bit concerned because he's a kind of a specialized document, like suit and firmware update and encryption and and lots of details. And, yeah, we got way more feedback than I expected. Was able to address most of it, but not all of it. And there's some some left. I keep track of them in the issue tracker. There's a link over here. Michael, I don't see him He had a good off the different options for the deployments of the different key management methods. Which which I'm thinking of how I could take that into account and restructure. They document a little bit of a gift, a different cases, some some better name. It's mostly editorial at this point in time. Out of all that feedback that, Christian I don't see him now and who provided those are only the only three leave you's that I still have to address was actually on the section on the firmware updates, ID device with a flash memory which, motivated or described"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "the use cases for the the CTR CBC encryption And they were three items that I think were beyond, editorial remarks, One was on the position independent code, which Dave, David Brown has just, commented on, I think, if few days ago, the issue there is that there's there was the perception by the reviewers that position independent code on this low end. My controllers is a common thing today, which, I think we are a couple of people sort of indicating no. That's actually not the case. And thereby position independent means not just turning on the compiler flex but actually truly have it so you can run it you can compile a firmware image and you run it you put it somewhere on flash and run it from there. And that requires a lot more heavy lifting than just combiling the code in such a way that the there are additional layer of indirection included when you do function calls, for example, when when you address, constants and variables. So there's because there's the vector table and all sorts of other point us that are sort of hanging around So in in in natural, it's possible, but to write to produce such a code, but it's just not done and and and But overall, I think the it was probably misleading to talk about this, position independent quote in the first place. So maybe I'm I'm going actually to remove that and simplify it. So in case someone wants to use this AB AB update what it put the download the firmware image and put it on for example, slot p and then do the swap operation whatever their reason is for doing. So This is the the section applies there."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "If you don't use that, Then just skip over the section. Right? So so maybe maybe the design rational or some of the rational, why Some people do this is probably less relevant and maybe it's easier to remove it rather than raising more question than necessary. What are other questions about whether this section is is really belongs in there where it should move to the appendix, like, is it informative? Is it normative? And and also, like, how is this going to evolve in the future? So I'm I'm not entirely sure what I should do they, or I should really move it to the appendix I could do that. I don't owe up expressively say this is sort of informative and provide some background on why or how some of that the techniques for the firmware update with the swapping of the images work haven't decided yet, but it's it's an old issue. And I think the happy that, these comments come up. And the last part is, is I I think I'm going to say that it's, informative. Leave it in the body of the text rather than moving around and illustrated as a a kind of a if you have that use case or if you apply this pattern, then this text is relevant to you, but it's, there's it's just a description. And then it's in kind of an application of the after firmware encryption. With those algorithms. Does that make you happy, Russ? Well, speaking as a contributor, it sounded rest, do you wanna go up to the mic? I'm fine with you just putting a sentence at the front. This section's informative. Okay. Yep. Get Speaking as a contributor, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "I was reading it more as a security consideration you know, which is why I felt it might have fit a little bit better in the security consideration section. But it's it's a little long for security consideration. Right? It's what? 3 Paragraphs, 2 paragraphs. I like, with the diagram and everything, I think it's probably the 2 beaches. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I think I will do what Russ suggested that we'll say that and reference it again in the security consideration section for someone specifically when it comes to the use of, this non AAD ciphers. And the last part is, There's obviously there have been advances in hardware, to allow execution execute in place, where the code you're executing is actually encrypted and the decryption happens on the fly, which, of course, is great. And And if you have such a hardware, then obviously, like, use it, and this may become more common there is, however, caveat there that many of those techniques, have some configuration components that are unique to the hardware you're using. So there may be difficulties in applying the key exchange mechanism like the a femuristatic diffie handman with with order construction, is, lines up with whatever hardware you're using. So That's, So there may be there may be separate key distribution mechanisms defined by the vendor that are solely for the purpose of, their use with their hardware. So it's not just the hardware building block India but there's, like, there may actually be a separate key exchange mechanism that comes along with it I I I will note India that those that that type of hardware exists"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "but, think it would be, like, I I wouldn't know what I should really do about it other than pointing to the to the existence of it. Okay. So so a little bit of sort of editing here and there. But beyond that, I I would say We have good depending on the completion of these other two documents which this depend this document depends on. when do you think these updates will be complete? So You are a tough, a tough manager. Maybe, I will try it by theendofthemonth Okay. That's fair. Maybe beginning of next month. Yep. Alright. Thank you. Any other questions on firmware Encryption. We're going to suit report next. Good. Good. Brendan back to you. Back to me. Next slide, please. So, the status on suit report, we've, published a VO7 Feedback from, previous reviews has been created, but there was one open question that is problematic. So, Dave, you asked a question. You asked, what we do with error codes. Now up until you ask that question, I had primarily been treating the suit report as a dump pipe for error code. So let's go to the next slide here. There's a number of different possible error codes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Now I have reached out to the seaborne working group in the past, and I've spoken to Karsten about this, and specifically about whether there should be standardized seaborne parse errors. The response I got was vaguely positive. I think it's fair fair to say. But definitely not enthusiastic. The the the apparent, opinion in the seaborne working group is that parsing errors are an implementation detail. Not a interoperability question. So we, I I think as the suit working group, need to decide whether error codes are for interop or whether error codes are for debug. And if it is for debug, then we're done. We just need to say that. If it's not for debug, then we have a problem. And I think I've got this all listed on the next slide, and I got ahead of myself. Next slide, please. Yeah. Yeah. So do we want it? Does the seabor working group wanna produce error codes it sounded to me like they don't. Does the cozy working group wanna produce error codes? Guessing they probably don't. Is it even possible to standardize cryptographic error codes I'm not sure that it is. So Here we are. Is this interoperability? Or is this debug information and we can be a dump pipe? Opinions welcome. I had assumed it was a pipe. So The queue says I'm up first, Russ probably working getting himself into the queue. We granted this into an issue with a hackathon which is a subset. The case we ran into with the hackathon was when Teap was using suit reports"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "And so the case that we're trying to figure out what to do in is the, suit MTI document has a couple profiles, right, where the manifest processor can, you know, maybe support some subset of those. Right? So it picks a particular one, say it's a constrained one. It gets a manifest that uses a different suit profile, the one of the cozy profiles, and the one that that device is expecting. And so, of course, can't do anything with it because it doesn't support that profile. What does it do? So it's gonna generate a failure suit report And what does it put into the suit report? Right? The suit report has a little field in their Xero codes. We said, okay. What do we put in that suit error code field? Right? If you see for debugging, you can put an arbitrary number in But what the we wanted to be able to do if the if you think this is a good idea, this is what we wanna be able to do is the send her the manifest said, well, maybe we want to send you a different manifest, whether we have one or whether we log something for administers, say, please generate a manifest that has this signature in it or update the device or whatever it is. Right? How do we communicate that information back in a particular if the device supports a different Is there a way to communicate that? Where would you put the fact that it supports a different profile because you wouldn't put that in your error code. Where would you put that? And so that's where we filed this issue generated this discussion that says, where do you put the fact that I support a different one than the one that you sent. Right? I could put an error code saying failure to support that profile, which is the, but but and that's a suit specific thing. That's not a cozy error because it's suit that specifies that profile. Right? So it's mismatch, the mismatch is definitely a cozy specific a Yes. So the sing, sing, It's not Sue. Well, what has the the what's what's MTI, right? So Yes. So We're in between. Yeah. But the point is we can't figure out what to do with the suit right now, and we'd like some guidance from the as implementers is me as a as an implementer. Yeah. We'd like some guidance from the working group as to what do we do in this case is it's a suit problem, right? Because we said in theory, you could say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "suit's not gonna handle that, that's up to the whatever the protocol is that fairies the suit manifests around to try to do negotiation or whatever. So my opinion on that one just to share it with the rest of the room I already put on the list, but the opinion on that one is is many different ways to ferry suit reports including sneakernet, right, rather than making every single one specify a different way to do it Seems like it would be best to have a way in the suit report to say, by the way, here is what went wrong and here's some additional information about it. So 3. So we we mentioned capability reporting in the suit report document. And there I had a different version of these slides which I think I submitted after this version, which had that detailed. So sorry about that that it wasn't in the first version, but nevertheless, there there is a set of slides floating around somewhere that has more detail on that. And that set of slides, I can tell you what it says, in a moment here, what If you have them on your machine and wanna request to share slides that that that's probably okay. I mean, Russ is in queue, but we do have time because this is one of the central issue. This is, like, the only issue that we ran into suit in the hackathon itself. So if I, let's Let's see if this actually works. See if that'll come up. Did you do you oh, I can do share screen. That'll work better. Wanna Alright. It's trying to figure out how to grant. Do you need to approve Brenda and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "Can you request to share screen one more time? Sure. It's not working. Okay. That's alright. I can just talk through it then. So, what what I'm saying is that there's a minor disconnect between suit MTI and suit report. Suitreport defines algorithm reporting as, a suit crypto algo capabilities as a list of integers. The idea would be that you would list the algorithms you support in that list. All of them, not just profiles, just every algorithm that's supported. Suit MTI, on the other hand, defines profiles which are lists of 4 integers. Specifically being the hash algorithm the, encryption algorithm, the signing algorithm and the encryption algorithm. I think I might have said that twice. Anyway, never mind that. The important thing is that there are there's a list of 4 integers and you need them all. And, the question here is Do we identify whether a manifest processor supports or how do we define, identify whether a manifest press sensors supports a specific suit cozy profile. The argument that I want to make is that if it supports all the algorithms listed in that profile then it supports the profile. The question to the working group is whether this is adequate or not. So that that's a question you did. I think, yes, Hanas is nodding. I don't see anybody else responding, but the harness is nodding. And I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "Yes. But as you pointed out, there's no way to express that in your report right now because you can't inagers and express them as one integer. That's right. Great. But that's not an error code, right? We're talking about capability working, I know. Go ahead, Russ. So I think we need to be careful to not over report. We've seen, like, back in TLS days where saying very specifically what exact thing went wrong led to, the way that attackers were finding out what information within aside and implementation was not being handled as expected and then exploited that. So what we found in was we started reporting errors at at higher granularity. So as to not give the attacker as much detail. And I think we should do the same here. Things like unexpected profile, not, like, the kind of thing I'm worried about. Things like These are the cipher suites I expect. I support are not what I'm worried about. But, yeah, you know, this little thing went wrong here and that granularity that would happen at seabor or happen at I would think is a bad thing to report in that granularity. So I encourage us to do the debug thing and we're done. And support those 2 things as capabilities, or an error code of expected profile. Okay. Dave's the other individual participant. The on the over reporting point, for, we do support encryption of suit reports. And so once you encrypt the Superports and the over porting a lot of those issues tend to go away, right? Because at what you do is you you encrypt the fact that, well, of what you support, and then now only one that has the decryption key can actually tell what you support, right? And so as long as you only maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "over a reporter, maybe report the details in an encrypted one, then that issue largely goes away. Right? And so that's the case that we have in heat is that it actually is encrypted. So that's why we don't care about that, but I think the principle is still about prince So I should ask the a follow-up question on that. Does that mean that we should put guidance in the security considerations of suit report suggesting that if we are generating the The suit reports, is defacto trace that it it pro provides that it should be encrypted. Is that is that the conclusion from this discussion that that's in the guidance we need? Yes. Broker, you may not have heard Russ and I both said yes. Okay. And note taker, please, can you put that in the notes? So just to clarify, we started with the question about whether these error codes were diagnostic or for interoperability. And I think I'm hearing that they might be one one there might be both. There might be some that are diagnostic and some that are for interoperability be any fields that should you overload the same field if that's the case? Should there Yeah. That's exactly it, Dave. I I think that essentially the conclusion I'm gonna come to, is that there are about 3 possible suit specific errors that we need to report So the first is unsupported algorithm, which is of course a subset of supported profile. On we have seabor parse error and possibly signature verification error. There might be a couple others but that's probably the bulk of it there. Sounds like we'll probably wanna establish a registry for, you know, for those errors so that we can extend them, You need to register if you think that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "Other documents will extend them. It sounds like you're this is just a question of you. You believe that other documents will extend them. Potentially. Alright. Brendan, are you clear on what needs to happen here? Yeah. We need an update to the security considerations advising people to, encrypt if they are reporting heavily. And, we need to define a very limited subset of suit specific errors. And then maybe just on the list, if it's already covered there, you can respond to say, what's the correct way of specifying what supported algorithms that you have in the seat report. If there's already a way to do that, you can just respond on the list. Yeah, we'll do. Unless it's, unless you think that it could be clarified in the document someplace? I I don't know right now. Russ, I think you're still in the queue or Thank you. But the reason I said that, Brennan, is because the the tea meeting is tomorrow, and I'd like to be able to walk into the tea meeting to say, there's agreement in the suit that you can do in the suit report and the t t protocol does not need to do There's no work for tp here. That that was my that's my goal of coming out of here. So Understood. I believe that is the case, and I will send a message to the list to that effect. Yeah. Great. Well, one of my goals is the implementation. The other one is as a chair. I'd like tell TIP what to do. So Alright. All set. Think next we have, sued Mun. Alright. Next slide, please. So this is in last call. We did, we made a few updates. It's primarily planatory text and, Hannah drew a very nice ASCII art diagram for us."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "I don't believe there are any other, known issues. I so I think this one is ready to go, as soon as the less coal expires. Although from what the chair said at the beginning, it sounded like it was in already an IETF last call. Which which I I must have misread. So I, I guess, it's out of our hands. Any commentary on the update management draft. I'm sorry? You mean the Yeah. Mud. That's it. That's what I meant. It's been a long day. Alright. Well, it sounds like things are moving along there. Yeah. Brandon, before we move on, I forgot to ask you about report, when you would have, an update ready for us. Oh, doesn't sound like it's very complicated. I'll see if I can get to that this week. Appreciate it. Thank you. As we think that one will be the, long pole for teeth, for example, out of all the ones that one depends on. That's the only one that hasn't started working your plus call. So that's been the last part of the in the in the, bundle Oh, Once that's done, you see no concerns with starting a working group last call on that. No. It sounds good to me. Alright. Perfect. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "So let the note taker say know that the chairs say that the next version that Brendan puts out, we will start a working request call on that one. Suit report for suit report. Yep. Alright. Celeste, we have, sued MTI. This is the exciting one. Next slide, please. So, the updates that we have made are primarily to support 5, tape. So what that is is we have added 1 more profile the the list has gotten large. Now I need to stress here that these MTI Profiles are not mandatory for end nodes to implement. These are mandatory for authors to implement in order to support the widest set of end nodes. The idea here is that each end node must support at least one of these, whereas authors to be able to compete fully compatible with all in nodes must support all of them. So here we are. We've got 1 fun AAD because, that's appeared to be what he required there is an interesting, thing to note here, which is that we don't have a PQC AAD profile at the moment. I think this is the correct choice as it stands, because we don't have a standardized, Kim. We don't have a standardized key exchange. And we don't have a standardized, longterm signature solution. I'm sorry. What I mean by that specifically is one that doesn't have a changing private key. So once we have a static private key signature algorithm, and a key exchange or a key encapsulation mechanism that is standardized, then I think we'll need to update this. And then add an AED profile for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:04",
    "text": "PQC. But up until that point, I think this is already a fairly comprehensive list and I am reluctant to add more to it I'll put myself in Go ahead, Russ. So I think you made the right chance choice there with HS HSLMS as the publisher required and not requiring a post quantum capable signature from the device back. And, let's just get this done. Okay? I was gonna relay a question that, talking about offline, which is, the second one from the bottom, the one Chachapali. I think the previous version of the document had the EDS say, with a 128 GCM and that one was removed here replaced with Chachapali, and it was observed is not yet implemented in Lawrence's library, whereas the other one was, and so just wanted since some of us are not the algorithm experts, and so wanted to, allow you to provide more justifications to why they changed there from, GCM to Chachapali. Yeah. So the the answer to that is that, there are a number of implementers out there that that I have have heard of, if not necessarily directly interacted with, who are reluctant to use AS128. And I thought that it was advisable to provide an alternative. From what I understand, Chachapali is the, most viable alternative that's available right now for AES 128. And, it is almost always paired with EDDSA. So that's why it exists specific combination. In fact, the common IoTU"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "case that I'm aware of is ed25519 with Chachapali. So, that that's the reasoning It seems like it would be advisable to provide at least one alternative to AES. And so that's the one. Alright. Okay. Sounds like there's no objections to the working group. Thank you for the explanation. This is which means that, we need to get that implemented. This one MTI has, completed working group last call right after the intro meeting. It was in working group last call during a meeting gap. Well, yeah. Yeah. So, To my knowledge, all outstanding comments have been addressed. Are you aware of anything Brendan that you've heard I'm not aware of any additional comments. Alright. Then it's unless anybody raises one during this meeting, we can claim the This one is now past consensus. So okay. I see. Great. And so then, the chairs have the next step which is I don't remember who the document Shepherd is on this one. I don't think it's me. Okay. Okay. Gotcha. Yeah. Okay. Alright. So Russ has the next step as the doc Shepherd. Even though he's not a chair Russ says, thankfully, agreed to continue as doc Shepherd thank you Russ. Thank you, Russ. Alright. Arts, arts, I think looking at our agenda, that should wrap up things for today. Do we have any other Roman, do you have any business for us? business? I do have some businesses. So as I put it on the mailing list,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "several days ago, we are gonna have some leadership changes here in suit. So I wanted to publicly thank here as I did kind of on the mail list. First, Russ, for your long term kind of up service. You're moving on to kind of other things and you are not already kinda sitting there. So thank you for that. And, Dave, despite me trying to keep him on longer. This movie, unfortunately, the last time he is sitting up there on the table leading us. So I wanna also thank you kind of for your service. Both of you have shepherded this group from really incept into where we are and look at us, with all of these deliverables almost done. So really kind of kudos, and thank you so much for your leadership. Uh-uh, other Dave Walter. As much as I would like to declare success and say, Dave Waltermeyer, you don't need anyone. Like, we're just wrapping up. We're almost done. I know there's a little bit more, that we need to do we will not leave you up there kind of alone. So I've already put out a note to the working group if anyone's kind of in volunteering. Paul and I are are looking how we're gonna fill this. We are not gonna fill this kind of this week, kind of, or next week, but certainly but certainly we hope to do so. In the coming month. And, of course, by the time we get together to IETF 119, it will be different. So, again, kind of thank you, David thank you for for getting us as far as as we've gotten in for your leadership Thanks. So I gotta jump in queue and then drop out. Ira, did you wanna say anything? Brandon answered my question in the chat. Alright. Any other business? Not hearing any. I think that concludes our meeting, for 118. Thank you, everyone. Thanks everyone. 7 minutes to spare. Well done, Dave."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:08",
    "text": "It's a good thing. It means we're draining the queue of open issues. Success. Yes. Since Dave, since I've got you for a moment, I'll point out that I have actually already, file a pull request that you might wanna take a look at. Okay. In which repository? That's, what was it? It was it's it's still open is what it is. Suit update management. Update manage. Yep. Clarify that build number is may not should."
  }
]
