[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign okay hello everyone um welcome to the Monet session at IDF 115 . I think we have a bit less people in the room or in online than last time but then we had the combined session with row and Babel and now uh a couple of our uh strongest supporters are in the drip session as well this is the node well you should be familiar with this if not quickly go read it um it is important you may have seen this earlier this week but um The Mask wearing part is most important so unless you're actively speaking at the microphone wear your mask so even if you're passively speaking at the microphone you should also wear a mask these are General resources you've probably seen that and specifically for this Monet session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "um well you probably uh I've seen that as well um it would be good if there was someone or several persons in the room that uh um could use a notepad to make some notes this is our agenda it has been updated today because yesterday I got the offer by uh by Sarah to present um dtn management architecture as you may remember at burain presented this in the online meeting itf-112 and since then um there have been some updates to digitma and I still think this could also have used for the Malay working group so the updates have come to be presented by Sarah at the end uh we will have a re-chartering uh discussion that I should have discussed with our ID before but I did not so apologies for that so he's coming in with gold Maybe um but we see how far we get with that and uh we can always continue on the mailing list draft status um we have some drafts that have been with the working group for a very long time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "and there's a cluster of four drafts that uh discusses credit based flow control um three out of these four drafts have undergone um transport area review um some very good comments have been received also a long time ago and there's still a discussion going on between uh David black who did the review and uh the authors but the discussion is converging and there are only a few open issues left um which we will come to uh a bit later um I've been a bit uh Lexi my uh my task of doing uh Shepherd write-ups which would be the next step um I understand I have to follow the new template that was uh published in July of this year um and I will do that of course I may have to get back to the authors on some of the questions especially on the one on implementation status I'm not aware of any implementations but it's one of the questions on the on the shepherd write-up template um and then I understand that there's a new thing that uh drafts in the rooting area routing area also have to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "go through a routing area review early review um and a question to our ads if that also applies to these drafts that have been around for some time I'm not against it but uh yes of course it applies to everything okay so we've been just so that everyone knows where this is coming from uh we've been talking to our chairs about how to improve the overall quality of the documents and so we've asked everyone all the chairs and all the working groups to do a routing director of review before requesting publication you can do that at working group last call or around that uh you know the important thing is that there's one before um and the other thing that we asked um already is obviously not for these ones that have been around for a long time but uh early assignment of uh Shepherds so that you know we have someone sort of following the document and looking at the issues and whatever before uh as the document advances thanks thank you um so there's this is one this fourth uh draft in this cluster which is the uh ether based ethernet based credit extension that has not had uh transfer to Aria review put it well soon um I talked to David black today always done the other tree and he asked me to to indicate when I submit this one for review that he has done the other tree and that this one should also end up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "with him then and I will do that then I think we have to um make sure that the few remaining issues with the other tree are resolved and that seems to me then a good point to submit them for routing area review because otherwise might be changes coming in response to the transport area I think as you go ahead my suggestion is go right now these things are pretty mature I can't imagine we're going to do a lot of change if there is a lot of change um I think we're going to have a longer discussion yes and some of the discussion maybe minutes away from now okay so one thing that has almost been discussed to death uh in the working group is uh better or not to merge some of these uh documents um and this was last discussed in the March meeting in Vienna and the working group decided no um even though the the transport area reviewer made a strong suggestion that we we should merge uh several of them or two of them uh with the working group's decision was not to do it and he said it's fine uh record this decision in the shepherd's write-up which I will do um I think the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "three major um issues and the one minor issues are actually not that major and uh just require a bit of uh rewording um and I think we should be able to fix those fairly quickly no however um at the risk of Lou throwing things at me I'm going to revisit this uh merging or not merging uh things one more time to remind everybody what this is about we have four drafts one is specifying two new messages two extension messages to deal up and uh five data items that go into these various messages then there's a traffic classification draft that uh just uh specifies a single new data item with two subdata items and then there is the uh d-lab dish of America credit extension and the disservice ether or rather IEEE 802.1 Q extension that are very uh low on substance because the only uh Define an extension type encapsulated in local boilerplate and I'm going to propose something now because the complaint was always about this uh these credit extensions that I had only uh five or six pages"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "and I think what we could do is move the ship data item definitions to these documents and then the traffic classification document will be totally generic which means that if we ever decide to uh Define or specify yet another traffic classification mechanism maybe based on the 524 or 624 or something like that then this uh rfe as it will be by then never need to be changed again and um it will be then uh yet another good extension uh draft which will uh Define its own subdata item so that's my uh proposal and uh you can shoot it down and one of the reasons for shooting it down is that it is very very late in the process and you might not want to be want to be going this road but uh yeah I'd like to hear your European uh Rick Taylor very quickly um plus one to to that proposal role um I think it makes a great deal of sense having based documents as references from other items just as you say cuts down on the amount of churn on on documents I think I suggested it some years ago but it's fine I think it's a good idea I know it's late but let's get it right heila Burger I completely agree on getting it right I just completely disagree on the conclusion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "so what happens when we want to do traffic classification on diff serve or ethernet and we want to do that independent of uh credits and flow control do we reference flow controls as their base spec let's say I want to do flow classification and do different metrics you know do I say okay in that document I have to reference the traffic the credit extension I'm not going to want to do credit extension I want to do craft classification now if you want to reduce the number of documents you can put this in one if you want to reduce the number of documents we can rearrange so the top two are together that's easy but if we think about why we have different documents it was flow control and traffic classification or two fundamental building blocks so we had those in two different documents and then we wanted to allow for conformance based on rnrfc so those are the reason we have two different bottom documents is so that if you quoted an RFC you knew what you were getting so the tops were building block the bottom were conformance we can do this in one document we can do it in four we can do it six we can do it in three let's just decide move on Rick Taylor again yeah Lou just made a really convincing argument I I jumped too soon because I had conflated the diffserv traffic classification and the flow credits all as one thing and that was a mistake so I retract my previous statement there is and always have been use cases where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "being able to describe a flow but not necessarily because you can want to do crediting with it is a useful property having standard ways of describing common flow types and you use the example of a five Tuple six double or something as a flow type that you might want to monitometrics for or God forbid even have some kind of flow up flow down in the equivalent of a destination our destination down means you don't have to touch that because we know what a flow is so I am reversing my opinion and I and I feel no shame that's really bad I uh yeah I'm not that convinced that you are ever going to uh use this classification uh thing for anything else than the best flow control I I uh Lou Burger again um I've had some extra documents waiting around but I've sort of frankly didn't want to bring them to the working group you know because this has taken so many years that would use traffic classification separately um we're gonna have to take this to the list though because we're going to stay at the schedule we don't have the time can we make a call now and stick with it please and frankly I'll live with whatever you say okay I wasn't aware that there was more coming um so then then we stick with the current arrangement um is my opinion but I'm only the chair and the the decision should be one of the working group can we just make a decision whatever it is I I'm perfectly fine taking your decision as chair and and Running With"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "It Whatever It Is I guess we'll look for the answer on the list and the hearing no change we'll keep it the way it is exactly thank you thanks for the time so the other thing we have to uh quickly go over is this uh these individual Phi related graphs there are three of them that were written by any Roca nothing has happened with them for a long time um there was a group adoption call in March on one of the three which I thought at the time was the the least controversial um there have been some technical comments um some of them were addressed although um but there was no real expression of support or or non-support of these trusts what I propose to do and what Dom already suggested back in March is to do a adoption call for each of these three individual adopting calls uh quickly and then I uh I do hope to to get some uh replies and uh keep in mind that these are only adoption calls it's only for the working group to say we find this interesting and we start working on them it's these are not working group law schools they can have considerable changes uh while they are working group documents so I will do that on the list next on the agenda was a quick uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "follow-up of the session that we had in Philadelphia um which was a joint session of the Bible role m a working groups um where we presented and the subject was multicast and we presented uh to each other what we are doing or multicast to see if there were overlaps or um whether we could work together or use each other's ideas these are only a few of my takeaways if other people have come away from that meeting with uh different conclusions or so then uh feel free to to go to the mic and and say something about that there seemed to be some confusion about the packet detection by the the non-money participants who thought that we were just um throwing away a package even if they were genuine uh generally identical packets from from the same Source this is not the case there's always something around these packets that is used as a Criterion for um detection and the experimental SMF RC 6621 in section 6 describes how it works so for instance for IPv6 you can use a an extension header to distinguish uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "package from each other and only if it's a duplicate that is the result of the same packet arriving at the same note again after being retransmitted several times perhaps then it's discarded um presentation on data plane implementation aspects which was interesting and which I personally would want to work on in my day job um but I don't think there was any uh protocol action behind that that the iitf is is concerned with um and then there was uh there were the presentations on beer which is an interesting uh multicasting technique that we should explore further to really understand if it's applicable to manage or not uh uh David one Parker has begun work on a document um on use cases and and GAP analysis and the sort of problem statement around the use of beer over uh layer 2 multicast um it's it's in a very early stage he did not want to present uh as yet um but go read it and a comment uh if you can I haven't really asked him whether he wanted the discussion to take place on the Monet list or on the BLS but I will and he is in the in the session at this moment remotely so maybe he can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "comment on that another point that was made by Lou and Rick I think is that uh with respect to North Coast we should look further than the minute alone but also uh take into consideration the money in its is in this environment with possible one or uh multiple gateways to the outside world to infrastructure-based Networks and see how we can handle that and I think that's uh that's a fair point um and It's relatively easy I think if you have only one Gateway but if you have multiple gateways there's always the risk that uh multicast packets that leave your money through one Gateway come back via another Gateway and that's something that you would want to prevent so these are techniques that we could potentially work on under the flag of a new Charter that's coming later and at this point I would like to go to the presentation of Sarah I just have a question about your um The Joint session did did you guys and the other chairs sort of get together afterwards see if there was something common that could be done um no unfortunately no no unfortunately not we should have done that okay can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "you and you made you made uh a statement at the end of that session that it should not be a one-off and it should be more uh course fertilization and uh you were absolutely right but it did not happen so right um uh of course I was right I was just saying because uh and you had that last item there that maybe there might be a charter item for this working group now that interaction of course with the rest of the world yeah you know it's sort of obvious in a ripple Network or a bevel Network or whatever so there might be some common things there um can I give you guys the action to go check with the other chairs and see if there's anything um you don't have to come back with something that at least you know talk and I understand and you know this dude uh label is concluding yes so it would mostly be a bit rolled then sure yes please yes foreign hi everyone my name is Sarah heiner and I'm going to be presenting on the dtn management architecture or dtnma um I owe anyone who is in the dtn working group um just a session ago an apology for presenting the same slides but we'll see if we can keep it a little bit different a little bit interesting next slide please so in this presentation I want to cover some of the highlights of the DT anime I'm definitely not going to try to cover the entire document but it is posted online version three is the most up-to-date if you want to look at that um but we'll be talking through the problem space and some considerations that we had from existing Network management protocols and then talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "through the reference and autonomy model excellent so as a really quick introduction to the dtnma um we originally called it the AMA that's the asynchronous management architecture um well we decided that asynchronous was not the right word to describe the problem space that we were working in so for now sticking with the DT anime instead and at a really high level summary the dtnma is looking to address three key points so this management architecture has to work in a scenario where a managed and managing device are not always connected they're dealing with asynchronous behavior um we need an autonomy model of sorts to enable self-management of those managed devices and then we need to use compact encodings which is enabled by the naming structures that we've chosen to address some of the constraints in that Network so one of the first sections that we added to this document was in an effort to Define our problem space better so we acknowledge that a dtn can be considered a constrained Network which is why we need to make sure that the encodings that we are using are efficient and a GTM is also a challenge Network so experiencing issues like disruptions and delays which is where the focus on autonomy and handling asynchronous Behavior comes from looks like after we established that problem space we wanted to take a look at the work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "that had already been done in this area and see what we could learn from what we could draw from and how that could be incorporated into the dtnma so as we looked at some of the existing approaches we saw both Lessons Learned to bring in and gaps that we felt needed to be filled by the dtnma so for example when we took a look at SNMP and netconf it was appreciated that that is a well-structured approach but it requires the establishment of a low latency session which is something that we can't guarantee when operating in a dtn um similar to ruscomf we appreciate that that is stateless but it requires the use of https and typically some large data transfers to move data stores and that's also not something that we can expect to always be able to support in a dtn um and then third point to address here is we took a look at core conf which uses seaboor to enable more efficient encodings but was still missing some of the pieces that we were looking for so on the next slide please so I tried to put a visualization of those points into this slide um and obviously that's a lot of information to distill into three circles so don't take this as a complete representation of the problem space but trying to figure out a way to show how the DT anime fits into these three different areas that are a priority for that management architecture so at the top we're prioritizing autonomy we need to support asynchronous behavior and then we also need efficient encodings and there's existing work in all of these circles but we could not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "find an approach that addressed that intersection which is where the dtnma fits so one of the first major updates that we made to the document was to address the dtnma reference model on the left you'll see our original AMA model but it was very generic in describing the autonomy that we required for this network management approach and because that's one of the focuses of the dtnma it was important to update the model and show how we're taking advantage of the use of an autonomy engine at the manage device and policy which is created and passed over by the managing device to inform autonomy next slide please and we will get into these figures um a little bit larger um after the slide so we will slow down and talk to those details soon but in the reference model there are three main points that I want to address because they're all important in enabling device self-management which is something that we need if we can't count on a connection between the managing and manage device um first is the use of pre-shared definitions so in the moments where these devices are connected we want to take advantage of that and make sure that we are sharing the data and models that are needed so that there's an agreed upon definition of the data that is being pulled that is reacted to and what those reactions should look like second is the notion of self-management which is happening for the agent which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "is residing on that manage device so again an acknowledgment that that managed device is often disconnected and we need some sort of local autonomy to react to the occurrence of events but we need those reactions to be consistent and based off of information that's provided by the managing device and then the third component that's represented here is the use of command-based management so because we can't support bulk updates and the use of large data stores like you might with a netcomf approach we're instead using a command and control interface to allow that managing device to get information to the manage device to include the policy statements that are configuring that autonomy engine next slide so now getting into the details of this reference model we're going to start at the bottom which are the pre-shared definitions so again this is occurring in a challenged environment the real-time data negotiation that you would need to maintain large data stores is not a guarantee so instead we are taking advantage of when the managing and manage device can speak to each other to update an autonomy model adms which are application data models um those contain agreed upon data definitions and are something that we can standardize so that that can be shared across the network and then also runtime data stores next slide and then speaking to the managing device we'll start at the top with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "applications and services that live on the managing device these are the source for policy statements and they're also the target of the managed devices reports information that is coming back um and those applications and services may have an operator in the loop but they also may not slide however the information is coming from those application and services um one of the key pieces of information is the policy statements um which are then received by the dtnma manager that policy is then encoded and sent to the dtnma agent to act on so um we are translating policy into a standard expression that can be understood um and in addition to being that interface between those applications and services on the managing device the manager is also receiving reports back from the managed devices that map to it and then is Distributing that information to the requesting applications and services and then we've also included some administrative configuration that has to live here so keeping track of for example mapping two different managed devices there are also applications and services that reside at the manage device um actually in the last iteration of this presentation it was pointed out that it would be helpful to know that these are not the same applications and services that are at the managing device"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "um these applications and services are being monitored by the agent these are what are managed um and they contain State information that is sampled um their configuration can be changed by the DT anime agent and their behavior can also be influenced by the dtnma agent all through the use of controls and then finally getting into the actual agent residing on the manage device so the agent is responsible for carrying out monitoring and control and the compelling piece of that is it needs to do that without a regular connection back to the managing device so the agent itself is able to determine what state it needs to pull and when um and part of that is driven by the internal autonomy model so there are rules that populate that autonomy engine that tell the dtnma agent what pieces of State information it should be monitoring and how it should react to changes in state the agent is also responsible for data Fusion so creating um new data or reports to then be sent back to the managing device and then again some administrative points here like maintaining um mappings back to the managers the last part that I want to address here is the dtnma autonomy model so this is what is allowing the manager to provide policy to the dtnma agent and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "the agent to act on that policy to be able to manage itself when it's not connected to that manager so at the top of this model you'll see that the manager is providing policy Expressions to the agent to populate a local rule database so those roles are saying if this stimulus event occurs respond in this standard way next slide so then getting into those responses that can be carried out as the dtnma agent is receiving data from those applications that it is managing um the autonomy engine is reacting to events and that could look like sending a control to that application to influence its state or configuration in some way um the autonomy engine might also instruct the agent to instead generate a report and send that back to the manager and it can also influence the runtime data store which can be updated as well by the dtnma manager with additional data definitions when connectivity is established so with that I know that I ran through all of that really quickly so if there are any clarifying questions thank you all right luberger I'm just trying to understand the relationship between what you presented and what you had earlier and you talked about um uh Co-op or Cody whatever you want to call it work off rescoff anima um and then he went into this and then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "you uh so rescoff and and corkov are ways to transport Yang models basically to encode and transport EA models is what you're talking about here is an alternate way to encode and transport Yang models or something completely different um completely different in that we can't in the environment of this constrained and challenged Network we haven't seen how we could support the use of a Yang module for the configuration and control of data so looking for an alternative that is not using necessarily that schema so that we can address the intersection of those three circles um Yang is a way of modeling information and um to some degree also modeling transactions related to that information for ways of sort of transporting it it seems to me that you need a new way of transporting to handle your disconnected operation but you don't necessarily need a new language for modeling of management information no I absolutely agree um I I misunderstood but yes definitely I'm sure it wasn't clear I I agree that um we should be looking at what can we pull from what is existing that we can incorporate um something that we're looking at in representing this data is we want it to be hierarchical in nature we want to make sure that we're considering the efficiency of the encoding to make sure that we're not creating something that's so large that it doesn't have a chance of making it to that managed device okay well when you talk about policy there's a lot of Yang models that are looking already at policy so there just might be work you can build on and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "keep in mind Yang is not about encoding it is not about transport it's about modeling the information and then you can encode it as appropriate using the most efficient again core conf or the least efficient whichever one you think is I personally don't like XML but that's my bias um uh so um it just it'd be good to leverage that other work and add to it by adding encoding and transport as necessary and maybe you don't even need a new encoding maybe you only need new transport okay uh that brain so I just wanted to uh come in and um you know sort of agree with what uh Sarah was saying uh and also what Lou was saying uh in that part of the interest in the work is trying to suss out what is the useful autonomy model that should exist on a perhaps very resource constrained device that has to manage itself um in a challenged environment uh and that set of um behaviors variables data models that language is probably a subset of all that could be modeled in Yang but also that there is some sort of useful local constructs and I'll use the word Loosely that that we have added with what we call part of our syntactic sugar to help reduce you know round trips that even though Yang is separate from an underlying um transport although at the time you know it was created it was you know kind of focused on on netconf there are some things that you can represent by adding additional parameters or additional metadata if you were to construct those models if you have a standard definition of your autonomy data model so and then you represent that in a Yang module you can do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "and we also have folks who have done net conf to DT anime Bridges and shown how you can go back and forth between Yang models and other representations of it so just a few comments just one comment for me to one of the early early slides of your presentation is that I consider um most money is also constrained and challenged different areas and that's something that we certainly found even in um just using the word asynchronous initially to describe our management architecture is um we ought to not limit where we can apply things always best to seek them the largest audience thank you and thanks very much for your presentation and I've got one remaining slide um so we probably will have to continue this on the mailing list anyway um I um I think we as chairs receive some an email from uh overall uh maybe two months back or something um about the fact that we were okay to get straight to the point there was some talk about a bubble uh closing down and uh I think there was an idea within the Bible working group um to do any remaining work that there might be uh from within the money group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "and unfortunately I I did not respond uh at that time uh that was first I was aware that this was coming and then uh this is also reached the overall and uh he said something like now now the cat is out of the back uh let's let's discuss this and then let's also think about the retartering um so I started thinking about uh what what we uh what we could do I looked at the current Charter most of you are familiar with what's in there this uh Samoans are maintenance that we're supposed to do there's d-lab which was done deal at flow control which is hopefully almost uh especially the the the the credit based variety of that is almost done then there was a dealer traffic classification statistics which made me wonder what it was but now I I think that it may be one of these things that uh Lou or don't maybe have planned for uh as a follow-up to uh as a an additional use of the perfect classification uh draft or RFC as it becomes that um multicast we of course addressed in the uh The Joint session with roll and Bobble I or no sorry let me rephrase it not because protocol framework and multicast FIP was was on the uh current uh Charter nothing much happened uh on that so far um and particularly implementing a sip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "is is interesting but uh again uh I I don't see uh any protocol development action behind this we could think about um defining an API or um yeah I it's not immediately obvious to me what what we should do there but if anybody has some ideas then I would like to hear that and then there is the the infamous documenting challenges best practices for deploying and management yeah I think that dtmma has just presented could play a role there um oh sorry what did I do voicemail.com sorry yeah did you read it I I think I was trying to remove you from the queue oh okay all right uh sorry for that um so this this uh best practices for deploying uh your I think I don't think you will ever get that information but uh yeah so that that has been on the uh on the charter since the last three Charter in 2016 and nothing much just happened there um so if we are going to recharger uh you know first of all there is the question is there anything anybody who still has energy to work on anything in this working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "I know I would want to work on multicast um but overall do you want to say something now foreign so just some general comments um one is that I think the working group was actually mature in some cases um so what I would like to see is for example it says they're always hard to be to maintenance you know similar statements for dlap so instead of listing the 10 next extensions or the three Nexus stations that we're going to have you know leave it up to the left maintenance and extension period that's it right that way we don't need to be recharging every three months or anything like that um also our dlab um you know the the sort of thought about Babel for me is that uh you know it's a shame that if the working group closes and there are enhancements to the protocol uh I see Julius on the on the line there um that there might be not not a place to work on it uh by default in the routing area uh rcwg takes everything that doesn't have a home right um yeah but in this case I feel that there's probably better uh expertise or closer expertise to Babel I honestly don't know how many of you participated in the Bible working group but you know ideally um and again I see Julius Santo Q there you know they would come here too right especially if there is something else that needs to be worked so that way we give it a home right so not necessarily um you know the same as with osrv2 kind of listening there battle maintenance type thing um and and the other comment that I have is uh the tnma I I really don't want to see a dtnma for money"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "what I want to see is what's the charter of the TN working group which is dtnma where they work with us or in other words we work with them right so the wording there should be yes we're going to work on maintenance and we're going to leverage and collaborate with the dtn working group on their dtma um framework or whatever the you copy the whatever the the 10 uh turtle races that I guess at a high level right those are the the maintenance and the specific management item that we already have work on right um and then sure we need to figure out what if anything we're going to do with uh multicast um we're probably not going to get that documental deployment but you know we'll see what happens when we take the charter to the AEG if people want to keep it in there or you know what do we do um um what I would then want to do is and of course you're the chairs you do whatever you want but what I would do is um given that we're going to have a new Charter with new energy you know try and focus the work right and get the work moving um we've been reviewing these d-lab drafts forever yeah um not that when they fall into my key or do you mean the faster but still you know we need to to get stuff out so let's try and find a way we can talk offline later on how to move the the work forward um yeah so just general comments thanks uh we have only um five minutes left can you be very brief because I would really like to hear what uh Julius has to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "okay uh that's uh regarding uh the rooting product that multicast I think uh still there is room for uh or re-chartering we mentioned this uh the multicast routing is important for this group and we haven't discussed much about multicast or ad hoc multicast thank you yes and if you have any ideas on this please post them on the mailing list Julius hi um yeah just a few words I really wish that download were cheers so what I'm going to say is my opinion and not necessarily the opinion of the charity yeah I'm here okay do you allow me to speak go okay um so uh I my feeling is that we're pretty done with Babel the plan with Babel was to close the to standardized Babel and a few important extensions and to close the working group three years ago we ended up doing a lot of fun stuff over the last three years that that was unplanned and I think it is time to close the working group now all the Registries in Bible or specifications required so we don't strictly need a working group if we want to do any further extensions to Babel however uh there is a feeling and Donald will correct me if I'm wrong that it might be more convenient in some places if there were a working group where we could publish Babel um future Bible work and many is a friendly group with people who have all the right competence to judge to review the Bible drafts and that is why I would like the charter to add something like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "Babel maintenance so that we can have a place to publish draft and rfcs in the future Rick very quickly my app has crashed completely I can't I can't click the button anymore um very good question really kind of to the chairs in the ad what's happening with aodv2 ah and that's I'm not making a political statement no no I haven't answered that so uh you guys remember last time we recharger this thing uh Charlie asked me to a the sponsor lwb2 so I started reviewing uh I'm still waiting for updates and so basically uh Charlie hasn't had time to work on it uh it's still in my queue that doesn't mean that I'll keep it like you forever I'm I'm about to just uh give up because we've been working on it for three or four years and we're still not done uh I don't believe his co-authors have heard about it either for about two years so and then there's a thing called the audvp Ripple which is different I guess yep as one minute left yeah this is Donnelly's like again I just uh say there is one uh document I'm about to request publication for uh in Babel and there is an expired draft that a number of people in battle would like to see published but it doesn't really matter whether the Bible organ group exists as a separate working group uh for any of us so uh I think I'd welcome having a novel maintenance item in the vanity Charter and uh yes thank you the the reason that I was was still Milling over my response to that was that um I was afraid that Monet would also be going the way of the dodo soon and then I would still end up in uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "enrouting uh rooting area working group okay we're officially out of time now so thanks everyone for your contributions just one thing to avoid money going the way of the dodo we need work right so we need to come to the meetings get the work done push the drafts out you know all that stuff fully understood and you're absolutely right and with that meeting adjourned thank you so much"
  }
]
