[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:28",
    "text": "e for hi can anybody hear me mic check yes yes okay great um mahash can you hear me mahash said earlier he was having trouble joining or slow me EO was slow um I'll just wait one more second for him to join otherwise I'll kick it off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:13",
    "text": "okay I I don't think my hush is going to be able to uh or he's not able to connect us yet so I'll kick it off uh welcome to the uh netcon working group virtual interum the first of uh this year 2024 um um me's see there we go uh this is the note well as everyone knows this is a an official ITF meeting and anything you say here is considered to be a contribution to the iatf um presumably everyone has seen this before but uh in case you haven't there are links on this slide and um the slide is linked in the agenda page so you can uh read about it there uh we do have a code of conduct uh the ITF relies on the cooperation between participants of diverse background it strives for mutual respect dignity for all and Common Sense decency the chairs will intervene if necessary to enforce these guidelines um we are of course using me EO if you're hearing my voice now you're already you know connected uh there's also a zulip channel that uh if you want if you only can or want to use the um text you can connect to that there's also a chat window inside meet Echo that's used uh we have two hours for this slot although it's not necessary to use the whole time um we do use the Q function in Meet Echo so if you wish to say something please raise your hand and um and then you know the chairs or the uh discussion leader we'll ask you know call on you to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "to uh unmute your mic when you're at the top of the queue and when you're done speaking please remove yourself from the queue actually we had a netod meeting two days ago and that was uh an issue a recurring issue many people forgot to remove themselves from the queue and it became kind of confusing uh there is we are taking notes uh in on the page there's a a link to to the notes um please contribute to the minute taking process if you can and let's see ah the agenda for this presentation is uh sorry for this virtual interim is uh the continuing discussion about neof next and rof next perr will be our discussion leader and this is my last slide so I will um start to share per slide and per I will pass you control so uh oh actually yes okay yes thank you uh welcome everyone uh this is uh the discussion about uh kicking off the work for NETCOM next and rest com next and uh I thought we could discuss uh these things uh first discuss the status of where we are now the category categories of work that we have identified so far uh design teams uh mailing list for these design teams uh volunteers ask for uh volunteers and how the effort going forward should look uh yeah let's continue so this status now is I checked yesterday and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "the the issues on GitHub now are 31 open issues for NETCOM next and 13 issues for rest conf next some of the netc ones are probably things that could be uh closed because they're ongoing work but that is sort of the status uh currently uh there are some backwards compatible extensions ongoing in drafts for instance the transaction ID list tation Trace context uh few Jank push Al those slightly tangential maybe drafts um and then looking at Yang next there are 101 open issues on the GitHub tracker and as some of you may know we had an interim in December finishing of the last year and back then we basically just started going through categorizing the work on the uh issue trackers and discussed a bit on how the effort should look going forward no conclusions on that meeting though but the categories of categories of work that have been ENT identified or classified Are One backwards compatible extensions where we don't need a protocol upgrade and there are uh already ongoing efforts for this uh the second one is a minor protocol upgrade where that could or might or might not be backwards compatible for instance in this case it would be netc 1.2 and or rest com 1.1 um and then we have the third category of a major protocol upgrade 2.0 version uh that most"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "probably uh will be non- backwards compatible and might also or probably will require Yang next uh yes Kent in the que yes hi um as a contributor you have rcom 1.1 and um this is interesting because version one of rescom is just one it's not 1.0 so I would we call it one. one or no it's a sorry it's an error on I it's it should probably be the rest 2 yeah okay but maybe I mean I'm not opposed entirely to 1. one it's I mean it's just the precedent of the first version um the first draft doesn't say in fact well actually say it explicitly says that it's up to any future draft to pick uh its numbering scheme I think um but yeah so we made that's interesting I just wanted to I actually looked at the capabilities in the in RFC 8040 the restcon RFC and the capabilities are numbered 1.0 so the restom capabilities are are versioned 1.0 okay okay great so there's a little bit of pressence so that sounds good right thank you um thank you uh yes Shian yeah uh hi can you hear me yes yeah so in the the third bullly point you mention that there are some major protocol upgrade which might require the young next right so it's does that mean that we probably need some there we have some issues in NE conf uh next that would dependent on a new version of young is my understanding right yes okay okay thank you uh Kent well yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "and just to add to that uh when Yang next happens it would necessitate additional changes to neom and rcom in order to support it as well so there may be in the um NEC NEX and RC NEX issue trackers some issues that are not backwards compatible and hence requiring a major protocol upgrade there would also be a major protocol upgrade necessary to support just y next editions okay Shin Chen we can't hear you do you have your microphone on sorry can you hear me now yes yeah I just feel confused you know for net account for next still depend on young next I think you know should de cover from any version of Y right or not I'm sorry Chen can you repeat that I I didn't quite understand what you were saying yeah so for thir category you know major protocal upgrade you you know mention you know require young next that means you know major protocal upgrade you know may depend on the young next but you know based on early discussion in the man my feeling is you know really you know for n next or protocal upgrade should you know decover any version of young model language right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "I'm sorry can I um reply to Chin sure oh yes okay I I think okay so the category this slide maybe the second bullet point under section three isn't um quite on accurate because I think what it's trying to say this this third Bal point is that there are issues in the neck confex and rest conf next trackers that if you know they're not backwards compatible if we to do them um those issues uh whether or not they depend on yex is it's un it's they may not necessarily depend on yex but um some of them may and some of them may not does that help yeah um that that yeah that cor thanks for good application yeah so so I can clarify further that these three categories each ticket in the GitHub tracker would fall into one of these buckets one two or three uh and it as Ken said it might not require Yang next as it as it stands but uh could probably or be intertwined with the Yang next uh work but so there are tickets today that are possible to work on as Backward Compatible extensions there are tickets today that could work in a minor protocol upgrade and there are tickets today that would be nonb backwards compatible and or require Yang next uh let's continue yes so so to to work with this we the chairs have created uh design teams two design teams one netc next DT and one rest conf next design team and the idea is that they should work on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "all three categories within the respective protocol uh in order to not have uh six design thingss then one on on minor protocol upgrade and one on the the bigger uh protocol overhaul uh so so all all work encompassing these three categories of different compatibility would go into each design team here there would also ideally as well probably be overlap between people in in the design teams um there are mailing list yes Shin you're muted yeah sorry yeah can you go back to prvious page absolutely yeah so so in in the gate Hy issue track issue tracker you have 31 issue so I'm wondering you know um you you list you there's 13 issue tiet specific to the r comp right all [Music] this can you hear me yeah chin um your connection was a little bit shaky uh could you maybe repeat what you said yeah uh you know for this you know in the design team you you know you may break it down into neton for next design team and resom Ne next design team I I found you know in uh issue tracker you know in the gate haror you know you list 31 issue and uh uh there's a certain issue you know specific to the resom but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "I I think maybe this certain issue you know apply both Nom and also resc right is any issue only apply to the resc for yes some are only per protocol but some also overlap can't yeah no I was just going to agree with you um yes there there some overlap ideally the ones that apply to both uh there's actually a second ticket I mean the ticket appears in both issue trackers um but you're right as there's probably some issues that aren't that do apply to both though there isn't a ticket in both I I tried writing tickets for on on both protocols if I identified something that was applicable for both protocols so they are track in both but it's it's a lot of overlap but not only overlap you can see so continuing to mailing list the these are the mailing list for uh uh the design teams um please sign up if you're interested in the work um you can find these slides later on um data tracker uh and I don't know if a mail has uh drop down in the on the net com list otherwise we could send one out for EAS access chin yeah per actually you know we already have you know gate hyper issue tracker you know we can make comments you know resolve the issue you know take an open source approach you know now you think we should set up you know two different manes so uh how so when when when we use you know GitHub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "issue chug or when we will use yeah man yes so open source is bigger than just GitHub and uh the work I've done is sometimes on mailing list and sometimes on issue trackers and sometimes on both I think uh you're correct though that uh a lot of people like to work on the um like to work on the tracker uh and that's fine but if we for instance if the design team would like to uh coordinate slides and or presentations or something for an ITF meeting that would probably fit better on the mailing list for instance um and not being discussed on a Tracker but we can I have a slide where we can discuss how how yeah my my suggestion go ahead yeah my my you know suggesting maybe we can Cross Pro you know for some of issue tracker discussion open issue this can be you know reflected you know on the manist possibly yeah okay thank you Kent uh just I'm trying to understand when Chen says on the mailing list he means on the NEC mailing list as opposed to one of these specific DT lists yeah I mean you know this you know DT many I just feel a little bit confused because we have manist that we can leverage it so which one we should you know focus on uh well as a uh budding member of these design teams uh I would think that it would be up to the design teams to decide you know uh which approach or what makes most sense for them um but uh I would you know yeah that's a good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "question uh I think both have their strengths and weaknesses right and and uh you know when it comes to putting out a message or or a thought um I guess if it can be categorized to a specific issue then perhaps the tracker is the best way to do it so it can be captured and tracked um there because it's specific to that issue but if it's not specific to an issue then the mailing list might be the preferred approach um and also as per mentioned there's plenty of messages that are maybe logistical in nature and you know that aren't tied to any specific issue that could be discussed in the M list okay thank you K yeah just to add to that a little bit more um these mailing lists the intention of them is somewhat modeled after the versioning design team and netod working group for those who have familiarity with that um so it's just a place for the design team members to be able to um you know discuss without necessarily having everything broadcasted on the the public um well these are public lists also but on the on the primary neof mail list chin yeah that's good to example yeah I I think it makes sense yeah thank you uh carrying on uh this is the slide where uh I am the chairs I guess ask for volunteers to uh get involved in the work to facilitate uh meetings to be editors for drafts to be authors co-authors and contributors to uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "drafts uh this is uh what I see as being needed for instance facilitating recurring meetings and then taking ownership of document progress and then also contributing to the to the work Mahesh yeah I was going to add to that uh sorry first of all for being a little late joining the meeting is um that if there's interest in one particular issue on of all the issues on that tracker that you could choose to pick up that and contribute with that particular issue also you don't have to be responsible for everything or every issue on the tracker so you could choose to focus only on one or couple of issues that you are interested and contribute that to thank you very good point Kent right uh very good point uh something that I was thinking about as well the obviously the ITF is a volunteer organization and it's up to individuals to decide what they wish to volunteer on um some issue I mean this is not top down right it's not at this point of the stage is up to the design team to decide well all ultimately to produce a a draft right an ID and that hopefully the working group or they'll you know bring to the working group for adoption um but what that draft contains is completely up to the design team it's it's not being um pushed or you know there's no top- down you know function we have an issue tracker that was put up for the purpose of sort of collecting information but it's not stating that any one thing has to be done there's no prioritization uh you know one ticket"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "over another um in my view it's purely up to the volunteers you know of the design team what if someone has a pet you know issue like it's their favorite thing it's important to them uh they can pick up the pen for that issue and try to bring you know forward the update necessary to make that issue come to life um when the design team feels that they've completed as much as they want to complete then they can bring it to the working group for adoption and the working group of course could then at that point you know at then there might be some statements well you know we missed out some important things and even though the design team members didn't think it was important the working group thinks it's important and therefore um it winds up some work some additional effort or items need to be picked up uh in order for the last call to occur but that's how I view it as well uh sort of following up with what mahes said yeah very very good points as well thank you mahes yeah I was going to Second uh well uh K's thought also on the uh what the ultimate uh result of all this work is going to be um it's ultimately going to be whatever is contributed towards that uh um RFC or a B document um and in a way the if something is of priority I think the work group has to decide who's going to work on it if that's an essential piece of the work but what goes into the document ultimately is going to be the cont individual contributions that are going to be made towards the document yes thank you so this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "is basically the discussion we've had on how to uh how people want to organize their work uh these these are the things that I can see that the design team can do and also of course then working on the mailing list uh and the issue tracker which is not listed here um and have recurrent design team meetings as the uh Yang versioning design team has even having interims like the ones we have now and before Christmas yeah K uh okay the recurring design team meetings uh I'm I'm a fan of uh having um interactive conversations but I'm cognizant to the fact that we have participants from time zones that are easily 12 hours apart and I I I don't know about the versioning effort if that's the true there as well um and per I think you are so maybe you can answer me but um oh go ahead please yeah uh uh currently it's uh mostly in the North and South American time zones and the European African time zones okay yeah that I kind of suspected that it was more reasonable so anyway uh a recurring meeting um and I just thinking about the versioning design team in netod I think I meet weekly um a weekly call that at you know at you know there's going to be bookends right I mean some people might in U uh west coast of America or in China those are 12 hours apart um depending on daylight savings and if it's weekly that could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "become um difficult so I don't know I'm I mean I guess this is a conversation for the design team to U pick up but I'm just thinking that I mean it's a special thing like this virtual interim is a special thing and and you know participants are making a special effort to either wake up early or stay up late in order to uh participate in this very special and not very often meeting but when it comes to pring meeting that's happening very often that might be a difficult to do so anyway I just think that more thought needs to be put around and maybe it depends on who all joins the design team right uh I'm getting ahead of myself or or uh or you know potentially seeing a problem that that won't manifest but um anyway that's why I raised my hand I just wanted to mention that yeah I can uh just uh answer shortly that uh I very much feel your sentiment as well and um I think that one should be careful uh just scheduling meetings um as well uh and [Music] um I just wanted to present what is what is possible uh not what how how the work should be done that is up to the participants in my in my view but this these are some of the things that one could do and that has been ongoing in ITF thank you uh Shin yeah I I think you know probably and can you know speak my words actually I uh you know worry about the you know time commit commitment and also you know how frequently we you know uh we we schedule this kind of meeting weekly or by weekly and if we contribute all these design team worker and also you need to to consider you know uh you know time zone uh for China I think you know for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "version in design teaming um meeting up yes or sorry did you finish with a question I think we lost I Jen I think you need to turn off your microphone if you're done U standing at the mic I think you next than you mash yeah what I was going to say is that I I think um a doodle poll in asking the question of how often they want to meet or when they want to meet would be one way to try to resolve the timing issue and the commitment issue also for that particular design team and as I think it was Kent who said that really it's the members of the design team that can decide what works best for that particular team so there is exactly uh the The Point again the members of the design team so uh need to identify the members of the design team that seems to be the next uh I won't call it a blocker but it it it's the thing that is predicating our the ability to pick a time if there were going to be times uh for a recurring meeting or or even if it was just a kickoff I mean I definitely am a fan of a design team kickoff meeting um and for that you know I I would consider that to be a special you know case type situation and you know uh not quite the recurring meeting just yet but a kickoff meeting um but from there it can be decided as to what the Cadence is going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "[Music] forward thank you so uh those were my my slides and we have already started the discussion around um uh around the questions that I've had as well uh how big the things I've been thinking about are how big effort it is how big effort people can invest uh how big effort for me personally that I invest and so on [Music] um so uh I I don't know process-wise how how to proceed from here though I have I have uh started this uh work in the iatf meeting the last ITF meeting 118 and then uh led the discussions for these two interims uh I volunteer to to lead this effort um and I would very much welcome more work leading coordinating uh participating and contributing on large and small things so uh I don't know if it's interesting to do a poll here or or a hum or how you do this virtual in this virtual inter uh to see how what the interest is m yeah uh I first of all want wanted to thank you for uh volunteering to step up and lead the last two meetings uh and clearly going forward I think uh you also indicated that uh you know you would be at least interested in leading the effort on one of the design teams um so we have two design teams we um so we need of course volunteers for each one of them um but also the fact that uh um in in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "terms of effort it's not just going to be per leading both the design teams so we need uh to also look for someone to lead the effort on the other design team or the two design teams something I think that the chairs can choose to pick up once we have somebody who's willing to volunteer so are we so the question ask is are we asking for volunteers at this point as far as team leads are concerned in in my opinion I think that might be the next uh way because then we could start in some sense their work and have someone interested and invested in ensuring it progresses can't yeah um I don't know I have a few different thoughts uh first is well also I want to thank you per for uh volunteering to U initially take on that role um and uh but but you know I I noticed the participants of this virtual interim are uh not as many as I had hoped um so I think you know actually I mean to pick a lead now may not be entirely making sense uh perhaps it does perhaps it doesn't I don't know uh but then I wonder well what what is the role of the lead and and uh and then and also then I think about well what is what how would the the members um uh interoperate or interact and uh I guess kind of going back to Jen's earlier comment about should we use the issue tracker should we use the mailing list um well I mean I guess it's not exactly to that comment but but related uh the use of GitHub in general and in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "particular the notion of like the main or Master branch and uh poll requests and uh that um I mean being a geographically distributed asynchronous effort uh it I mean we might it might make sense to leverage uh GitHub workflows in that regard um I I would imagine step one would be to initialize the um well okay hold on we we have the uh GitHub um repos for net confex and and uh rest confex but but I don't think those repos should be used for the drafts so if we want to create a an 8040 Biz or um a 6142 biz then we should probably create separate GitHub repos for those um documents and initialize those documents with the existing versions of uh the documents uh you know the XML you know to check it in and then uh so that would be how that' be the initialization of the main branch and then from that point forward I guess it'd be some notion of like pull request um I don't know if it's quite the same thing as you know facilitators like where your your question is who who would be uh willing to step up to be the facilitator but but it kind of comes I if we do this approach then it's more um you know who's willing to contribute pull requests um and then who would review the pull requests and you know ultimately merge the pull request I don't know if that make sense but I'm just throwing it out there it might make sense to use get help workflows for this effort yeah I I think just to quickly respond I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "think it makes very much sense uh to do that and then people can on isolated issues that are for document additions or modifications chin you were muted yeah can you hear me yes yeah um so I I missed you know U the previous inter meeting to discuss young next you know probably you already have young next design team you may call volunteer now you know in this inter meeting you you propos to set up or you know uh you know NE com for next design team res uh next design team team so I'm just you know thinking what will be the goal for this design team you know as you know K mention we produce uh n Beast or R be or we uh you know we focus on you know to resolve all the open issue uh we uh you know fire in the gate HRI issue trackers so what will be the uh you know uh you know deliverable or uh the goal for this design team I understand the the goal for the design teams is to produce documents to be adopted in the working group and then later be uh standards right to produce drafts that can be adopted by the working group and then become rfc's and that can be small issues and it really depends on what the members of the design teams want to work on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "yeah I just feel you know we if we you know focus on you know producer n be or R be maybe this kind of you know uh you know no hang hanging uh fruits we we can you know tget to but if we resolve all the open issue especially for you know young next you have 100 issue you need to resolve this maybe longterm project so it may take a long time yes indeed and that is uh uh the connecting back to the Yang versioning design team it has been an effort for I five or six years I think and it's not all all members are not the same as with the Inception of the design team so at the start I think at least from what I've seen there are a bit different uh participants over the years uh and the long the the bigger the overhaul for the protocols that is are being worked on the probably the longer the work effort will be but it's totally doable to pick up a small issue and do an isolated draft to solve that issue and then sort of leave the effort I think so yeah so it's it's again it's up to the design team the members of the design teams to decide on how and what they want to work on Kent uh yes a few comments here uh first is the charter for the design teams uh if you look at the text of the um Charter I think it states that the design teams would uh initially focus on like backwards compatible approaches and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "then non-b backwards compatible approaches ideally coinciding with uh the publication of a Yang next document or or 7950 Biz from the netod working group um the uh chin made a comment about the tickets that are currently in the Yang sorry the NEC and rcx trackers and actually I don't think you know well per had these three groupings um um updates that are not NE requiring protocol updates I mean they could they could be an RFC that simply updates RC or or you know extends resc in a but it doesn't require a new version of re rcom not it doesn't require a 1.1 of or a 1.2 of NETCOM for instance it's just an update to NETCOM that works with 1.1 one as well um so that's our first category so and in that case we wouldn't even need a 6241 Biz uh gith repo we'd have a different repo for that particular update to NEC um 1.2 sorry 1. one too many numbers keep track of um H okay so that's the first thought uh second thought is I wanted to mention the with regards to Yang next uh there uh Chen there has not been any announcement made uh there is not yet a design team uh in netod to uh work on it but it is something that I am uh both as chair and contributor uh netod of interested in kicking off in this hopefully the near future it will be a long-term project I I cannot imagine Yang next completing um you know it it it's at least three years you know I don't want to you know scare anybody away but it it there's a lot of work uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "if you look at those issues that are in the Yang Next Issue tracker it's it will take quite a long time to um but we got to get started is the main thing so um I wouldn't expect the Yang next effort to produce a document uh for for a few years my you're in the cube yeah I wanted to pick up on that example that Ken started off it is not all um items on that track list and necessite uh and net comp next or as comp next and one particular example that I can think of was It's actually an old and expired draft um the binary format now there was it was presented in the conf working group but at that point it was not much it didn't get Gana too much interest but Andy for example recently reached out um and said he would be interested in restarting that work so that would be that's a perfect example of something that um doesn't need the next version of netcon or S comp next uh to be able to support um existing protocol so that could out of that list could result in a separate GitHub repository being created uh for work just on that item and it doesn't need to be tracked anymore as part of wcon next oron next so I wanted to put that out as an example of how things could proceed um so where there are no dependencies that work can become an independent stream of work that is done whether it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "part of the next comp next design team or not even that decision can be made if somebody wants to go off and do the work by themselves and come back to the working group and they have a draft that is ready to be discussed I just want to put that out as an example yes thank you uh so so my my when I said that we look for volunteers I I wasn't really meaning that we ask for volunteers only in this meeting but to raise like to to volunteer to to um raise your hand and say that I could do this and then we could do the same on the mailing list and and gather this uh interested people in the ideally I guess it would happen maybe on the design team mailing lists also Kent uh yes I volunteer to participate in this effort both net confex and rest confex thank you Jun you're muted chin yeah uh I also volunteer for n next ROM next design team and uh so I I just want to confirm you know so for this design teamw work most most focus on you know uh you know to produce like net com for Beast or R Beast instead of you know for you know minor product protocal extension they should be done in the you know existing working room like net conf right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "can I reply to that yeah yes please I think you have have very good uh conclusions thank you Kent please reply yeah okay sorry for skipping uh jumping to the head of the line but uh yeah I was thinking about that also Jen and you know what is the true purpose of these design teams and if you look at the charter it says uh like the actual text says to produce uh you know 6241 or 6142 Biz and and 8040 Biz um that's what the text says um it doesn't say anything about other documents so I would imagine it comes it it means that this design team is to focus on those um Biz documents uh of the protocol docu of the main protocol rfc's um per correctly ident or stated that there are these three categories and the first category does doesn't really require uh even a minor update to the protocol um but for those issues they don't have to be picked up by the design team um if no one wants to pick it up then well first up again it's a volunteer effort whoever wants to pick some things up that you know they way they can pick it up um and uh but they don't have to be picked up that's my main point kimar Jo the hi as others have said I would also like to volunteer for the design team uh but as others have already said as well it's not clear what exactly the scope of work is or will be um so I guess uh I will just go through the open issues and pick something that I'm interested in and start with that I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:06",
    "text": "guess thank you thank you I think that's a good way forward and join the mailing list uh if you want to be involved thanks thank you Chan yeah uh I'm just want to mention that I'm also willing to contribute to both work and I don't think I don't like the idea that I don't think we should uh wait for the young next to publish the netc p and redc p work I think that would delay that would be delayed so maybe uh focus on the issues that uh would not require a yanx work first thank you nothing thank you mahes thank you yes so I was going to actually respond both to shang's question as well as Ram's um so I'll start withan as far as um waiting for Yang next I think um there is some dependency in some cases on Yang next and that work of course even if it gets started will probably get stalled waiting for young next work to um at least start uh but I think as the chairs have also discussed there's nothing to stop the uh beginning of the work so certainly work within net comex and comex can get started without waiting for Yang next to Startup but uh to conclude they would I would imagine that there would be some dependency on Yang next um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "so that might stall or at least temporally stop the work till your next picks up but as uh Kent has already indicated I think there is interest in the netm working group to get young next started also um so that's my opinion and I'm sure Kent will add anything from his side to ra thing about uh you know what to work on certainly one way to look at it is I think mostly as uh this is a volunteer organization you will do what is of interest to you so if there's a particular issue that you feel strongly about um there's nothing to say you can't pick up that work and and start suggesting changes um and without necessarily deciding which document or which um design team it has to be focused on um I think it can be posted to both if need be uh if you have uh ways to move forward on a particular issue so those are some of my parts thank you so uh so um M go ahead oh uh one of thing that I forgot I don't know if everyone who's in the meeting right now is also on the meeing list maybe I can look for the link and post it in the chat window if people haven't join the meeting list um the second part of it was I think um we um going back to the netcon meeing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "list to ask for volunteers and and or I guess the 119 meeting um K and per did you have any thoughts on what you might want to achieve um in 119 if anything I have not uh thought about uh that far in the future okay me neither I sorry I haven't thought that far in the future if if if anything we'll just um we could provide a status update that design teams hopefully there'd be a kickoff meeting of some sort before then at least and so uh it could be stated that design team met there was a kickoff meeting whatever the outcome of that meeting was could be um shared with the working group as a whole uh you know one thing to note is Jason Stern as the versioning design team U leader of sort uh he puts to the ne mod mailing list emails following up every design team meeting uh that captures the results of that meeting so I guess maybe this same is done here in which case also reporting um essentially the same results to the working group at 119 would be redundant but nonetheless it could be done for uh because it's a broader audience perhaps than or a different audience than those that are signed up to the ne conf list right okay yeah good points I I have a question I thought about if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the B documents should also include protocol extensions as a part of the protocol so things that today are extensions to say rest com and netc if in a b documents they should be included in those documents can't yeah I wanted to raise this as well um exactly there and the same would be true with Yang there's there's a lot of uh or Yang next but there's a lot of things that have been tacked on over time and but now if we're creating an actual version uh minor version update to the protocol we could roll them in into that version uh one example uh perhaps prematurely well no actually the timing of things but the list pnation effort right so uh right now the there's the list pagination NETCOM and list pagination rest conf documents which are updating the one. uh well sorry the netcon and restcon protocols but if we were to do minor updates to them we could actually roll those list that list pagination effort and make it part of the base protocol uh it makes sense to me I think it's always a good idea to um simplify to consolidate over time yeah I think we're aligned good points uh I don't have uh much else to uh discuss myself I'm happy to continue the discussion uh either on this interim uh for the duration of the meeting uh otherwise um I think we can take it to the design"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "team and the NETCOM mailing lists maybe can't right okay so um I agree I think we're near the end of this interim the virtual inter room but as a follow-up step uh we probably should send an email to the nof mailing list um you know providing uh you know we met we um you know uh we you know we we there's the creation of the two design uh Team mailing list uh there's a desire to um have people sign up to those mailing lists and let's say two weeks from now a doodle poll will be sent to those mailing lists to solicit times for when a kickoff meeting could occur for for those design teams um something like that so you know I'm just trying to figure out what's the next step and so ultimately I think we want to have a kickoff meeting for each of those design team very good PA forward I think I'm I'm also uh sensitive to the fact that everyone that might want to be on this call can't be on this call at this time uh so it would be uh it would be good to have a like a broad pool of people to gather from to also do it ask on the mailing list of course that is also as I have understood it where the actual work is being done in thef can't one more thing we could do um as a Prelude to that um it is I mean we can go ahead and create the the 6241 and 8040 Biz repost in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "GitHub and perhaps even initialize them with the XML from the base protocol documents and uh you know it it's a minor thing but it has the Optics of it are are kind of powerful right it it shows that like these documents are on the table the operating table and uh so we that's something we could do also or I could do um as chair to kick off that effort help kick off the effort yes very good thank mahes you're Q yeah I like that idea K and I think you know it's um I think our effort to show that the effort is been kicked off and and gives people at least an option to um start looking at what's in the document also today and what possibly they could uh what text they could be adding and do it in the form of poll requests uh so that they can send it out for review on on the mailing list either the design team mailing list or even the netcon mailing list it need be they want other people to um review the changes thank you can't yeah so um what do you think is the sequence of things did you should we send out the email first like perhaps even today or tomorrow uh and then create those repost or wait until those repost get created and then send theil email"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "um I think that sequence of first sending out the mail informing that we had the interim and um what we discussed on that interim followed by saying that yeah uh we'll create these two repul for the two Bill documents would be one uh it sounds natural to me but I'm open to other suggestions also okay yeah that's uh fine I and I know there'd be a delay if if we wanted to create the repos first you know honestly today's a very busy day for me and I probably wouldn't get to it until the weekend uh or early next week um so we may not want to wait that long but uh there's just one minor thing uh the sequence of those mails the first mail we're sending the one we're talking about would go to the ne mailing list so it's a very broad uh distribution um and if the repos aren't created yet then of course it can't have hyperlinks to the repos because they're not created yet um but if we uh if we create the repos after then presumably the announcement of those repos being created would go to the the DT specific mailing list and hence the netcon the broad netcon mailing list would miss that um so I'm just thinking from an Optics perspective maybe okay how about this a compromise uh very quickly I can just create the repos and not initialize them um and so we have we can the URL exist and we can point to it um I I suggest uh I suggest uh the following that we send out a mail summarizing today I can do that I have some notes on the side here I haven't used hedg for note taking uh during this meeting but I have some notes I'll publish them on hedg as well and then we create the repost and then we send another mail also to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "netlist so two chances of gathering interest one's now saying that we will do this and then now we have done it you can join now or or or the other no okay sounds good uh but Chin's in the queue so maybe he has a thought as well yes shin yeah uh just one more question you know for these two design team manister everybody can you know get access to it open to the public so if um so everybody who subscribe this man will become the design team member or not can't uh just responding to Chen um well I mean It ultimately comes down to who has the energy to volunteer their time and absolutely it's open to the public the the mailing list are open to the public they're not private um anyone can join they could be lurkers and really not contributing at all um they may never join they may not join the kickoff U meeting they may not uh ever contribute a line of text to the effort but they're just lurking so I mean I wouldn't okay if you uh I think that there needs to be uh okay uh the prize here is the list of authors right uh who is listed as authors on the IDS and I'm somewhat of a stickler for you actually have to be contributing text I mean if you don't get to be an author just because you showed up and you know um you know raised your hand once that doesn't count you you actually have have to be a contributor of text so um and I think that that sort of you know self- selects uh you know who is and then who"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "is in the design team uh I mean maybe that's an artificial um construct like the term design team it really it's authors right so um but yeah It ultimately comes down to those who are contributing text yeah that's that's a fair yeah s for collation M yeah I was going to bring in another aspect uh that I think it supports and I think we might want to exercise in this Cas is there are of course different level of privileges within GitHub so for example and I'm not saying that that has to be the way to do it that the design team lead would be have admin access and they would delegate uh whatever write or read access to the GitHub where uh people who want to contribute you know a given um right ability whereas everyone else who wants to just come and produ and not necess contribute and can make to ways just to read access but uh you know i' let the design team and the design team lead kind of decide for themselves um uh how they want to approach it thank you yeah it's also possible uh a thought that I had was to get contributions from people maybe not even participating in the ITF when you're on GitHub uh be it colleagues or our some random bypasser having suggestions for how to solve something or a suggestion um which could very well just be uh tracked in in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "the issue tracker or via pull request so it works for everyone I think uh no matter what level of participation you want to have so the que is open um but it seems maybe we can close the meaning we have suggested Way Forward of uh sending out a summarizing mail creating rapos for 6241 B um I mean netc and rest conf Bas documents ments on GitHub sending out a second mail saying that these are on the net conf list as well and also a doodle poll U we suggest asking for good scheduling for kickoff meetings and also a handful of volunteers already Kent yes I agree I think we've come to the end of this meeting thank you perr for um leading the discussion and preparing slides and uh thank you everyone for uh participating and especially thank you for those who volunteered uh to be part of the effort um and with this uh I conclude the virtual interim thank you all thank you thank you bye-bye thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "are you still there mahes where do you live"
  }
]
