[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:41",
    "text": "hi folks uh thanks everybody for being here we will get started in just a moment um we are expecting a couple more people uh at the very least uh some more of the people who sent us uh inputs uh like Luke uh so uh in the meantime I will start the administ trivia question by asking if there's anybody who's willing to take notes uh we really do need a note taker remember this is not a he said she said style note-taking it's just uh record any decisions that get made so in this case we'll probably have the decision on which style of GitHub slack yes or no and recording which personal uh which technical questions to tackle and the incoming personal drafts so shouldn't be onerous notes just seven or eight lines"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "but we really do need somebody to do that foreign taking notes when I'm not opening my mouth okay thank you James uh if anybody can help James out uh James will you be using the note uh taking tool here or not yes I'll I'll use the uh the notes of the thing post thingy okay uh if you want to uh help James out to just jump into the notes uh thing and uh the various note takers can help each other thanks very much James is calling here I will try and help as well but I'm having uh spotty internet connection so I don't I can't be the prime person thanks okay uh so the next thing is to remind you this is our very first working group uh meeting um as the media over a quick working group as opposed to a buff and so it's a time to remind you of the note well uh there are various ietf um uh ITF policies which it calls to your attention uh the set of BCPS uh being at the bottom so you are in fact expected to follow the anti-harassment procedures the code of conduct and to be aware of both our copyright and our patent policies as part of the iitf if you if you have any questions about those um please understand that once you start participating we will expect you to follow them so you can be watching um if you're a little bit confused or need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "go talk to a lawyer but please don't contribute unless you agree to these if you do agree to them please contribute as much as you'd like um and that brings us back to the second bit of administrivia which is is there anybody who needs to bash the agenda okay hearing No Agenda bashes and seeing nobody in the queue um we will go on to our Logistics questions the first of those is around GitHub uh so as people remember from the mailing list discussion uh RFC 8874 discusses a couple of different modes in which a working group can operate um uh so some of them are issue tracking mode and another is issue discussion mode and I guess the biggest question uh for the working group at this point is do we want to use it at all and presuming that we do which of the modes are we simply storing the documents there are we using the issue tracker uh there to to to raise issues but discussing them on the mailing list and uh or do we want to have some of the issued discussion uh in the tracker the difference between having some of the issue discussion in the tracker and having it on the mailing list is primarily how early the mailing list gets involved in the decision making the mailing list is always the place where the current version of a document is approved so the mailing list always has the last word so to speak on any decision including the the one that we'll make in the discussion today but the the floor is open for people to express their preferences and hopefully we can come to a consensus that looks like Spencer is first um GitHub please and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "I am comfortable with raising issues in GitHub And discussing issues that seem to be being discussed in GitHub on the mailing list um the the one thing that I would say in addition to what Ted was saying was that I'm expecting that the okay repository activity uh for any of the repositories that are involved here are being reflected to the mailing list weekly uh so it's not like it's not like the people in GitHub are invisible uh you're just not getting notification uh PR comment by PR comment thanks thank you Spencer Victor the sink we should be using GitHub with issue tracking and GitHub that has been a fairly successful approach in both uh quick and web trans working groups so don't see the reason to not too sad uh thank you Spencer I still see you in queue uh did you have another comment to make I'm just not good at lowering my hands I will leave now okay I see a comment from kiril uh in the uh chat saying no mailing list please that's actually not one of the options as Alan points out um the mailing list is uh is definitive per ITF process um the um the option here is to have the the mailing list be the place that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "confirms decisions that are taken other places but it always has to be part of the process so it can't be taken out of the process as things stand now are there any other questions or comments on this before we start to try and draw conclusions okay that's a little bit less discussion on this than I was expecting but maybe everybody just agreed with everything that Alan and uh sorry that uh Spencer and Victor said um so the uh the upshot of what I hear is there's nobody who is advocating for um working without GitHub and that both of the people who spoke positively were doing it uh in the mode where issue tracking is done primarily in GitHub issues uh I think what that that means is what we will take back to the list just to remind folks that that's how we get a confirmation is that the sense of the room in this meeting was that we would use the GitHub style where issue tracking was done primarily in the GitHub repos um everything will of course come back to the list as is required by ietf process uh does anybody think that's the wrong conclusion to draw from the discussion so far okay uh note takers please put that down as the discussion to be referred to um to be confirmed on the list um the next piece of uh Logistics is the question of slack yes or no uh so I'll point out two things before we get this this discussed one this is there there is no ietf document that documents how to use slack so it's it's very much uh an ad hoc process by any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "individual working group I think the working group that uses it most extensively is quick uh with a quick Dev slack um and I'll point out there that the quick Dev slack has one serious um issue for some members of that working group which is the default slack client the unpaid version of it only keeps a certain amount of History so you pretty much either have to pay for it or be aware that the history is always incomplete uh so the question to this group is slack yes or no and the floor is open Victor just we once again follow what's a quick working update which is slack yes for interop and implementation discussion but generally no for design decisions and it's not just because the free version of slack is not archived but even if it is Media slack inherently hard to search things inside of so if we're going to have a serious design discussion it should be somewhere that is trivially searchable and linkable thank you Colin um so there's many ways we could solve this but I don't think we should have I mean I'm all for using slack or a tool I don't really like slack but some tool like that like that would be fine I think we should use a tool like that however I don't think we should use any tool where a hundred percent of it does not end up in a long-term publicly searchable archive that ITF can use because that's critical for our legal process I strongly object to things other than that so that might happen just due to you know being mirrored onto an email list or something like that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "like the same way we do with the PRS or with the the get the GitHub stuff but I think one way or another there needs to be a long-term public Archive of this stuff because um it turns out to be really important later when there's a patent argument and somebody patents something that the working group did and the working group wants to show no we did that before you patented it so I think it's critical that 100 of it is public it is archived somewhere foreign Spencer thank you before I start talking um so I asked this I think I was the one that asked this question and I agree with what's been said so far um the the one thing that I would add at this point is um I'm having the impression that uh we're planning to do with more with zulup in the future than we are with slack uh as an ITF so uh we might just want to keep an eye on uh whether that's a better answer than slack as a the free version of slack as it's used today thank you uh suhaus cool most of the comments here and I I would like to kind of qualify that question saying uh can we use slack for uh like what Victor said interrupt and implementation like clarification discussions but not design discussions and outcome for of the working group decides what to do next um it's very easy to kind of get into a mode where as part of the discussion we are all enthusiastic and we'll start this design discussions there we need to somehow make sure that it's some reflector or you know archived so that you can be searchable at some point Allen"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "okay um yeah so chair hop off for a second I just want to say that I second a lot of the comments about having for interop and um the sort of like technical real-time discussion for quick and other groups has been super useful so I think having a channel like that is important I also want to just bring to folks attention that inside the quick Dev slack there is an moq Channel now where there is some coordination happening between the authors of individual drafts um there so there are some informal discussion happening there and it was sort of just a placeholder because people needed a place to coordinate but I wanted to make people aware that that was something that was going on now and we're not trying to like necessarily hide any of that discussion from other people foreign are there any other folks who would like to step up to the queue to discuss this point Spencer I wish I was just going to ask Alan if you could send a pointer to the current wherever you think the actual uh Place starting Monday morning uh would be for for that to the mailing list thank you can I just clarify Spencer what you're asking are you saying if we don't make any other decision in the next 75 minutes that we're going to that I would send a pointer to where it is now uh happening or something else I know that you and Ted will do the right right thing uh I think what I was mostly saying was that I did not realize uh that such a thing was was in place um so if you know if the answer is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "we should move it somewhere else you know to its own place or whatever I know you all will do the right thing uh I I just don't I just don't know where to look now thank you yeah I understood I think that the draft authors sort of said because they work in different companies and we're trying to iterate rapidly on updates to their drafts prior to the draft deadline we're like we need a Communication channel uh and so one was created and uh it's you know but it's it's certainly public but do not maybe easily discoverable so um I'll just post a link maybe even the minutes of this meeting so if anybody wants to go and see what's being discussed there it's it's obviously available or joined in that discussion but I'm also hoping that maybe out of this meeting we'll have a place where we can actually a more formal place where such things can happen yeah and that sounds that sounds perfect and repeating I know that you and Ted will do the right thing well the first thing we're going to do is to see if I can confirm uh a read of what we we have there it seems like everybody agrees that uh if we use a channel like this it will not be used for any design decisions it would be used uh during interrupt discussions and by um editors or or implementers for quick confirmations of uh their understanding of what the spec currently says so I think we're I didn't hear anybody argue for uh using slack for anything that would affect the design of the uh of the protocol or that would affect the the long-term specification that would all be in GitHub or on the mailing list I also heard pretty strongly uh concerns about um the The Disappearing nature of uh slack in particular"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um I I believe that uh Cullen Ali and myself all mentioned that so I believe that possibly we're not looking at slack itself so what I propose to do here is to say look if a design team wants to use a channel um then it's not formally part of the working group that's cool what we'll do is go off and see if we can find either a mechanism to reflect uh all the slack messages into an archival um uh medium like a secondary mailing list or something like that or a digest that can be posted to the mailing list or we'll investigate using zulip which is the new ietf replacement for Chopper and which does have this long-term archival property and does allow us to create multiple channels within um within a particular Zula topic like moq um so I think what that means is the the slack answer isn't yes or no so much as it is not right now um and we'll work on seeing if we can find one that meets the archival properties uh relatively quickly but that the understanding is even when it's in place it's for informal Communications but those informal Communications would be retained um Cullen is incube Cullen okay let's see I guess our audio seems to go now um sort of okay but I I think um you should probably I think it'd be good to uh take a uh you know get some input up from the room on zulup I I know for I know I definitely would not want to use at all I just find it very difficult to use I think there's you know Discord or slack would be fine um so I and maybe I'm alone in that but I think we could get some input on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "very quickly um and I will note that every group that I have said say they will not do design decisions on whatever that tool is promptly goes off and does tons of their design decisions on that so I think we need to be a little bit more I mean I know that we always pay lip service like it's just like saying we're going to confirm it on the list but I I think that actually we need to be sort of realistic that design decisions will happen on this stuff you know I'm not trying to change people's uh take on that I'm just noting that it happens and that we should keep that in mind When selecting a tool oh okay and I think that that reinforces the need for um uh the archival record of it uh even if we think it's going to be informal just in case it becomes a place for some critical piece of data um that affects a design decision uh gets hashed out Alan yeah I just want to observe maybe what I've seen you know for for quick which used the slack for many years which is that I I'm sure as people interrupt and discover problems they're also discussing possible design solutions to those problems in the real time Channel but I think for the most part those would always be reflected then into issues in GitHub with discussion happening there afterwards and I don't think by any means that like slack became the last word so I sort of expect that the same process and as Spencer would say people will do the right thing here um but I'm not arguing against that uh you know having a long-term uh archival and searchable history isn't is also important so foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:07",
    "text": "sorry uh does anybody want to talk to the point about zulip that um that Cullen raised Spencer I I think I do but could you could you uh State the point the killer race that you're asking for input on sure Cullen said that he was concerned about us saying that we would look I either how to take things out of slack so that they were archived or we would look in zulip since it seems to be the ITF replacement for chapper and his comment was that he he felt it would be wise for us to kind of pull the room on usage of zulip um because he felt like he did not currently himself use it and wasn't particularly keen on doing so so I think that's a a question here he mentioned Discord as well as another option so we can go and look and say um we could go and set up a Discord for this it has the same sort of Disappearing properties um for some people but we have to be a little bit aware of of the setup of too many tools if if people are using slack for quick and Discord for Mock and zulip for um HTTP Biz we're we're kind of all over the map there and that's a bit hard to track okay yeah okay so uh the prize working groups can do the right thing also so whatever the right thing to do is the the one the one suggestion I would make about that is I don't have a huge amount of experience with Sula I've mostly used it during medeco"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "meetings which you know what we haven't had many of and a couple of months um so also you know that that might be an invitation for people to go take a look at Google up and see what the what they think about that also a reasonable thing to do would be to ask the tools team if our understanding of the Direction with zulup matches uh their understanding all right if I remember correctly we had a test with zulub and some other uh similar mechanism that they they pick zulup uh over the other mechanism so um you know it's like I think they have a direction uh but just for us to make sure that we know what it is and that they haven't changed it thank you okay I I believe that the Tulip is the direction we can confirm that it hasn't been changed and I'll take the action item to do that in the meantime may I ask somebody to take the action item to see if they can find a mechanism that would allow us to uh create a digest or digested archive of a slack Channel um and if if we can identify one of those then the major objection to using slack which is that it's a disappearing medium for the free client uh would go away uh is there anybody who who feels that they they have the right skill set and the time to do that foreign so I'm going to take the fact that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "nobody's interested in doing doing that as part of the indicator on how anxious you are to have slack as a tool so if you're anxious to have slack as a tool and don't feel like putting up your hand that that might be something you want to think about okay uh not seeing any volunteers for this uh the chairs will take the action item to uh reconfirm the direction on zulub and ask around about slack but we'll we'll take into account the fact that the this seemed to be uh significantly lower priority than the GitHub discussion and go from there uh any other comments on this point before we move to our next uh item on the agenda which is the use case document okay hearing nothing we will move on to the use case document I believe um James uh you said you would want us to to share from our side from the pre-loaded slides or did you want to do that uh spinner drive me I'm sorry I couldn't hear you very well I there was some something interesting I was asking Spencer if he wanted to do the driving of the slide okay they should be pre-loaded Spencer if you wanted to click the share pre-loaded slides or I can do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "it is because you know um so we have the meeting materials and then I have the okay um okay I'm in the I'm in the right place I'm not sure quite I'm not quite sure where the button is for that I believe it should be next to the join queue button I got a I got a SlideShare is that just a request to you all yeah it will give a request and we'll say yes okay and it seems like I should be getting another button when you say that when you say yes I haven't actually seen the request yet uh Alan did you see no all right just to save time then I will um oh no it looks like it's being shared fabulous so I'm just waiting for I'm just waiting for that to refresh uh someplace uh yeah there okay have you got what you need um I've got a new deck is being shared and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "I'm not seeing anything else popping up okay there there we go okay uh I think I might actually have to advance this then because it looks like it did it from mine but that's okay just tell me when you want it advance okay thank you uh so I think James and I are both talking so um we're here talking about a individual draft that we had worked on um pre-charter and um just basically what what to do next with that uh as you all put on the agenda uh that sounds like a next slide Maybe foreign so the working group is chartered to adopt a use cases a requirements document uh the draft we've been working on is a potential candidate um James and I think he was draft would be a useful starting place for Bach but uh recognizing that uh the author's pre-both opinions or what's in the draft now not what's in the approved Charter uh so we are proposing that we revise this draft to protect reflect the actual Charter not asking the working group to consider adoption now and you also see the revised draft before anyone asks a question about adoption uh does that make sense to people I could stop for questions we can stop for questions hearing no questions uh could we go to slide three"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "so um we think so we had started on use cases we thought that use cases would drive requirements which would require drive work on protocols uh the charter includes but is not limited to these use cases quoting live streaming gaming and media conferencing uh section for the individual draft describes these three use cases um and so we had three questions that we were hoping to get uh guidance from the working group The chartered working group um about whether there were other use cases that are in scope for mock that have unique requirements that would not be covered under live streaming gaming and media conferencing um I I think it's uh Ted does it seem reasonable for us to uh stop after every question and let people talk yeah you can ask okay so um are there are there other use cases that are in scope for mock that have unique requirements that would not be covered by the use cases that are listed in the charter so you can you can always ask this question again once you've written the oh yeah absolutely yeah absolutely uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "and I mean the other thing is um I don't know how much time people spent looking at um well two things let me say uh a lot of the work on this was done before the uh the trash was done before the uh first not not a working group forming buff uh on Mock and so um anybody who's been paying attention since then um may not be familiar with the draft and I don't know how much time people have spent looking at the slides before the meeting uh so I can def I can definitely ask these questions on the mailing list um one other question that uh James and I have wondered about was whether the Hybrid used case uh that's described in uh section 4.2 of the draft and so this is to be clear this is a uh use case that has aspects of both uh live streaming and highly interactive gaming media conferencing uh kind of requirements and and the example that that has been uh cited on quite a few occasions is the uh the Staff All Hands meeting where uh there may be hundreds or even thousands of viewers but only a small number of active uh people being interactive both producing sending media as well as receiving and it's whereas you know it's the vast majority of purely just receiving and consuming media thank you James"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "thank you Spencer for bringing this um I think some of the discussions um with the unified work that we're also trying to do has this aspect of how do we let viewers uh like Luke would also talk talking about it more but it's more about how do we let users uh say the con or viewers say uh the latency they would expect and and uh having uh the the delivery protocol meet that requirement would enable some of these use cases where you're in just a live stream listening mode and then you want to jump into interactive more like Esports betting or or in the staff meeting use case of gyms provided um I I think this some some at some point we are we a requirement to that would be there which which might related to how do you express the latency or something like that but I don't know exactly what it means at this point in time thank you thank you um I can I can make a uh my opinion statement um which is that uh ITF work often is not super focused on use cases as a starting point so we might be adding some material in the use case portion of the draft but um I think the intention right now is to have the same document with use cases and requirements so that it may be that it may be that what you're talking about as we drill down our requirements would would be more naturally part of that section other highlights I agree on that thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:08",
    "text": "the other question and this may be getting into um this may be getting into um discussion that would happen after you know we're moving forward with this draft of the if it's okay if the working group moves forward with it um is making sure that we have enough descriptive material in the use case section to explain why we have certain requirements um and you know as as suhas was just was saying uh there's certain require you know certain use cases with uh that would say this is you know because we support this aspect of this kind of use case uh this is why this is a requirement so um that may be that may be the answer to our third question there um so I think uh any any more comments on this slide and if there are not um could we go to the next slide uh I think we've I think we've had the discussion so there is one more slide um what James and I are planning to do are actually we look at this far is to update the abstract and introduction to reflect the approved Charter uh there's quite a bit of History observations and our opinions throughout the draft that can be removed um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "the uh we that updating the use cases to reflect working group discussion on slide three questions um would be you know the other thing that we would want to do before we before we uh asked anybody for an option of this draft by the working group and um in proposing an initial structure of the requirements section uh based on implicit requirements that are in the approved Charter and um at this point if if this rolls the way I was thinking it might the working group would be controlling both the use cases and requirements um for for mock at that point any comment uh comments or questions on this Cullen I I Spencer I mean I I think yeah I think it's totally the right path I mean I I if you want to adopt this right now I'd have you know I'd be like oh some parts of I don't like but I I think you're on the right path and the other thing that I might suggest you do if there's Parts you know delete as much like there's a lot of history in there let's let's like yeah intense it make it easy for everyone to read but also if there's stuff that's just not agreed upon on the working group but there's a range of opinions we can express that and then adopt it as a working group document with the issue not resolved but an issue you know we have a range of options we could go here there isn't yet working group agreement we can have things in the draft that aren't working group agreement if they're clearly identified that way and that can get us moving on this whole thing but I I anyway thank you guys yeah yeah yeah so so I I think that I think that's I think that there are things in the draft that are not in scope uh but uh I've not done a quick uh I've not done the past in the last 20 minutes uh for um what what's in there that is not agreed upon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "uh yeah that obviously agreed upon uh but that is and you know that the answers would be in scope so uh that that that helps me you know that's a very helpful comment uh to me Colin thank you a suhat yeah um I I think this is a useful document to have and it'll help us drive um the protocol design and architecture as we go forward and uh and and I agree um once once the authors are ready uh with the next uh revision we should consider uh it for adoption thank you for the work oh thank you um I think you have my my same skill at not leaving the queue don't learn from me man um James did you have anything that you wanted to say I think there's one point in clarification that is probably worth uh mentioning which is that upon uh adopting this the our draft after we uh address the various points that we've listed out doesn't necess doesn't necessarily mean the working group initially agrees with everything that's in there however once it's brought into the working group is adopted then um everybody who participates in the working group can then use the consensus mechanisms to then get some of those things fixed particularly if they're um somewhat controversial so I I would uh warmly like to to keep for folk to keep that in mind that um they can be definitely disagreeable points in here and that by bringing them bringing the document in we can then argue about it and then get a consensus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "over over and you know this this POI has been done by other working groups uh it just so happens that my own other active document was done in this is being done in this way and it seems to work yeah um and and James James says for about what James said is reminding me uh my interest at least my understanding of what it means to adopt this is that the working group thinks that this is a document that is a reasonable basis for working group work so um any other any other comments I'm gonna I'm gonna have a question for the chairs and and the working group of course okay Spencer um thank you very much uh you said you had a question for the chairs what would that be yeah I I was not really thinking about um when we did when we did the when we did the first version of the slides for this for this talk uh I was not really thinking about um adoption now and you know as the slides reflect um but I'm wondering you know if if you know Cullen said you know he'd be okay with adopting it now uh with this work plan as part of that um and um would other people would other people be okay with that so with chair hat on since that wasn't one of the decisions we announced would be part of the the interim um I I would prefer not to do that at this interim um if you guys produce the document uh with the revisions uh we can take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "that up in London in London for itf-115 but um I'm I'm a little bit uncomfortable with doing it at this this interim um we could do it on the list as well yeah oh that yeah yeah yeah much better much better thank you um but uh probably not right now especially no no yeah that makes perfect sense the call for adoption has to go to the list yeah sure yeah but just the even the discussion right Ted yeah yeah okay yeah I I get that cool uh Colin uh um maybe I just came across the wrong way I mean I just I do I do think you guys should do an update of the document to try and make it be something that it that reflects the working group consensus either by being something we all agree on or being like clearly documenting it's not working group consensus for the parts that aren't in the dock before we adopt it for for working group consensus but I felt bad for you presenting and getting zero feedback and it's like do people love this I think you're on the right track please do the work thank you like that's what I was really trying to say um and and and thank and thank you for thank you for clarifying uh as well uh so like I said uh what you just said is kind of what I was uh thinking we were going to be doing uh between now and London um I think so the the ID cutoff is like Monday right yeah so so uh it is not super likely that we would um that we would uh produce and submit a draft by Monday uh that does that the the one thing that I uh also wanted to follow up with uh Port Cullen was saying was there are things that we could we might or might not take out of the draft uh but the things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "are not part of the working group Charter um those are the things that definitely need to go um and then you know then once once everything we're talking about is in the under the current Charter um I think that would be a fine time to to uh for us to talk about the working group uh adopting this so um do you do you want me to send the request for a slide in London now uh sure um we'll we'll consider a a request for a slot in London uh based on the on the minutes of this meeting so perfect you are you are a sport thank you um I think that's I think that's everything that I know uh back to the rest of the meeting okay uh the next was the question of which technical questions to tackle in London and Sue how scared a presentation on that yes that can you drive okay uh I can hear can everyone hear me yes or not okay great uh so uh the the main idea behind this slide deck is not uh going deep into how do we solve each of the things that's been listed in the slide but basically looking at the charter and Distilling it one level down to see what kind of questions that we would like to answer it might turn into requirements that uh would help like Spencers on James document or it might turn into a task list that the working group would want to follow so keeping that uh context in the mind uh I'll jump to the next slide please okay topics uh that will will be talking about here which is basically rocked from the charter we need to work on a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "common published protocol between ingest and distribution and we need a way to uh name or address things um whatever we call it as to identify things and so that we can request them uh appropriately and also we need a way to kind of package this media we have uh different formats there like how do we want to package this media and how does the end-to-end security fits in in the overall picture next slide please foreign published protocol required it needs uh to be common between the contribution and distribution side of the picture and we need a way uh to support to specify different kinds of media types like it's an ad audio video or subtitles or it's an ad or something and also different qualities so those media types correspond to and also different codecs those are some of the things at least we need to be able to kind of specify as part of the protocol and on the things that's being published and these things need to be added we need to be able to identify them uniquely so that on the consumer side you should be able to kind of retrieve that and also uh when you're publishing the media can be published at various granularity for example if you take about the Via to talk about the video a video can be published as individual individual frames that comes out of the encoded encoder or it could be group of frames like the group of pictures that we usually to see in the video encoding or something different we need to kind of say group decide on uh on what's the right way to go about it and some of these things will also be addressed when Luke presents about unified draft but uh here I'm putting it here so that we need to address uh this technical detail uh next slide please and once once the media has been published under the transport in order to make a relay the first class citizens in the architecture we need to have some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "kind of metadata that goes along with the media being published that helps the relays or the caches of the proxies to make the right uh caching decisions like either you want to drop or forward and how to do uh it under congestion especially in the media media agnostic way we don't want the realized or proxies to be worried about every codec that comes out in the future or every code that's been built in the past so a media agnostic way to kind of provide metadata that can be read by the relays having some information about the identification of the media being published the priority uh some dependencies if it's there and also should we cache it or not helping this kind of relays or the middle boxes make decisions without having to look into the actual media payload which will be encrypted um and also which the protocol should enable uh to configure to support various use cases that James just meant mentioned about live streaming or interactive media or media conferencing we need to be able to kind of specify that in the protocol and and whatever we send should be able to map on the quick stream or quick streams or quick datagrams or datagrams is something we are for we are evaluating uh but uh uh we for for the use case especially the media conferencing our interactive use cases but uh something we need the protocol should provide a way to map and also the other things is that how do we send the data or web transport or HTTP 3 or Rock quick just some of the things that we need to consider when designing this protocol and application data can be uh can be end-to-end encrypted in the sense that from the publisher to Consumer if you if there's no uh transcoding or anything happening in between um how if you support or something like that uh how uh even the even the the how the key keying happens everything is outside the scope of this protocol but we need to kind of uh make sure that the the data in transit uh is not or cannot be read by the middle boxes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "next slide please that kind of covers you know what uh on the publication side of things to happen Okay one of the important things also uh that goes along with either publication that's also common to the consumption is how do we name or identify the things that's being published um given uh we are working in the web model with cdns and kind of relays and also the origin in the picture we need to make sure that water being published is in the scope of an application domain or the origin and uh that would that basically means that uh a somehow it's tied to a billing relationship that happens with a company that's kind of actually producing the media it might not be a direct goal of this protocol but uh this architecture works that way we need to kind of keep that in mind and the naming what naming basically does is identifies these Elemental streams or the variations of those things so that way uh it's it's very easy for the consumer to kind of uh request the right quality or or or or the consumer to kind of or or consumers kind of pick between different qualities all right and uh for the final scenario scenarios from the CDN and to multiple subscribers we are talking about like millions or like hundreds of thousands of subscribers uh we need to be able to kind of May the name should enable uh the consumers to kind of ask uh for the data they need uh that matches a given name next slide please on packaging media while we're transporting there are multiple options that we want to package media uh some of the contenders that we have or some of the options that we can the can they coexist or uh something like using existing uh container format like cmaf um and also supporting Rock container format if for the cases where uh if if we think uh if if CMS system cmap does not does not help their uh supporting a raw container format and as a group we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "need to decide do we need any other content formats that that would help uh make that option of a mock protocols uh widely next slide next moving on the consumption side so we we uh once we once we kind of design on how the names should be how on what being published and what they identify the different qualities and the things uh the consumers should be able to kind of ask those names um and also consumers should be able to kind of ask the right uh things uh based on the names uh based on their names like each name should identify what kind of media it's being uh is being is being sent and and also the quality and the the properties of that media so that the consumers should be allowed to kind of ask those kind of things and also stop uh if it's no longer interested and again since we're working in this web operation model so uh the consumers are always authorized that's the origin it goes without saying that next slide please and on also uh on on the requirements of what a relational caches should do uh the the basic functionality is to kind of they should allow caching and distribution of the media data as applicable uh and also they they basically store data based on the trust that's been set up by the origin again this course without saying that um and also uh uh like like how the publisher and consumer kind of work on quick streams or quick datagrams or or whatever we come beside the protocol should be the release should also be doing that uh and uh for cases where the latencies need to be really kept low uh some of the options like pipelining might be considered where where uh the the less time is spent on on the chain of release so that uh N20 latency can be reduced but these are some of the things we need to explore as we design the protocol um and relay should be able to kind of make their cash or drop decisions just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "based on the metadata and nothing and and not being able to access the actual payload the mock payload and I really should be able to kind of push the data based on the consumers asking for the data push the data whenever it's available to uh fan out to the any number of consumers next slide please on end-to-end security uh the the publication protocol or itself would not be kind of is out of scope of the uh of the protocol to say how the keys for the encryption would happen uh but we need to kind of consider possible options that would happen to support the use cases that we have listed is something like a DRM based uh uh like the the content can be DRM encrypted to support many of the use cases on the live stream side of things or if you are going with like media conferencing use case something like an MLs or some combination of s frame might be one thing that we might consider or if if uh people think there's some something different that should be good uh to uh let good mechanism or or the useful mechanism that could be used to derive the keys uh for encrypting the content something like that we we need to kind of uh talk about that as well I think that should be all this this kind of a laundry list of things that we might might want to do uh and I would like to kind of uh encourage working group to kind of think through these questions um either we create a list somewhere where we can go discuss further uh and kind of uh see how can we build our solution that kind of fits uh the requirements that we have thank you has uh so I just so a few minutes to discuss here and I think the what might be interesting is to try to surface the topics that we think we could put on an agenda in London to have like a deeper discussion there's obviously a lot of topics that we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "to cover in this working group over time but think about what are the first ones that we want to really dig into that will maybe have more Downstream implications so with that in mind people want to jump in and weigh in on what sua said or other related topics and first in queue is Spencer um so um one of the so um one of the things I was going to suggest uh that we focus on early is getting a clear specification of what we think a protocol stack looks like uh this was discussion that was happening in the uh email thread that uh Luke started um and there were you know there's at least three different variations that I can think of that people seem to have had in their heads um when they were you know when we were we were talking about this I think that uh that will make things a lot clearer for um a number of these a number of these questions um I I was looking at your thing on uh the end-to-end security uh which maybe that may be uh that may be a good topic for London and the thing I was going to say was that the mops document on uh operational considerations for streaming uh for uh streaming providers um has a security section that talks about uh you know I'm encrypting at the application layer I'm encrypting hubby hop I'm encrypting in end-to-end and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "kind of what the considerations are there for each of those that may be a that may be a reasonable template to uh to use I think you did say something that was starting to make me wonder um we you know we have things that we want to make sure that we don't break existing business models unnecessarily so for us to be thinking about that as we're meeting in London and I wanted to ask um if we had a GitHub with a GitHub Wiki is that something that we could set up quickly to start this catalog or is there a better way to do it because I think there's I think you're I think you're putting a lot of stuff in front of the working group that all of it matters um and for us to figure out how to how to uh how to do that in another huge amount of time but but thanks Spencer valid points I I I I think uh having having a GitHub Wiki where but because most of the things I've listed down kind of is a digital down version of what's in Charter some might be my personal opinions which which is definitely open to change um having this as a backlog or something would definitely help uh doing that and I also agree with Alan what Helen said is that um yes we have uh Charter says we have to do 15 things what is the first three things you want to do and uh kind of making that um separation saying this is the first three things we want to work on and then rest would come eventually follow after that would would be good model um and at the same time even though we are trying to design a protocol that works"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "um both on the production and also the consumption side keeping these things in mind would help uh us not go go back and redesign things that we have already designed or probably published in RSV out of it right so that's that's the only reason why this list was created um and I agree we start start with something small and having having this this backbox somewhere would definitely help there's a lot of things that we don't have to design we just need to make sure that we can they we don't break them the things that people are doing today so thanks Spencer um and I I know I hear the uh request to make sure we don't lose track of this list of things that we know we need to tackle uh so I think Ted and I can make sure that we find a home to to track this backlog um does anybody else want to weigh in on what they think the one or two or three most important or the highest priority items to tackle first are uh besides Spencer I'm still in queue because I don't know as in queue so I do still see you in the queue Spencer if you want to talk more or not I was I was I was for the purposes of this conversation I was trying to get out uh I I can I can I can I can always say something else um and if nobody's lined up behind me anyway um if so the working group is chartered"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "to produce certain documents um whatever the right document is and it may be the protocol document you can you can replace you can create the repo for it now and uh then uh we can be putting these in as issues and uh using labels on you know this is for ITF 115 this is for um you know it you know this is for later uh kinds of things to to manage the so we don't have so we don't start out with 500 issues but just just to just to give us a place to get started and get organized do the right thing of course I know if I if I may suggest like since since one of the first deliverables we have on along with use case document is the the common media publication protocol uh if if you take that as the the category that we want to kind of solve first and and and some of these things will move out or move out automatically from from from if you take that as a goal uh maybe when you create a Wiki or somewhere we basically go by by that categorization saying that um we start with common media protocol media publication protocol and for that these are some things we have we we might want to see if you can um address this these technical questions for those things maybe that might be the first start uh okay I saw a comment from Luke in the um in the chat about prioritization but also referencing his upcoming slides so um I don't know if Luke you want to jump in and Echo that the room or if other folks have different opinions uh like I think what sue us just said about well I think writing the common publication protocol is like the higher like one of the highest priorities so we should take that and then work on subtopics from there first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "foreign yeah the most important part of a media transport or just a network transport in general is making sure the data gets there correctly um so uh I mean it it's really tempting to start like nitpicking like how do we support DRM but at the same time it's like how do we make sure that media gets from point A to point B in reliable fashion such as it can be decoded and uh there's a few the few different drafts out there disagree a little bit on that uh and that's why I wanted to kind of do a presentation of the the common ground okay uh thanks does is there anybody else who wants to oh mo I just wanted to agree with Luke that uh packaging of the media I think is the most important thing to tackle first because I think that quickly uh shows the differences that people um are assuming and it's it's critical for the transport of the media to understand the the protocol boundaries of fragments and descriptions of them [Music] it's it's useless to talk about things like congestion and other things if you don't have the basic understanding of what what's the packaging of the individual protocol objects okay thanks I I I think I'm getting a sense of of where people want to go um does anybody else want to weigh in or should we should move on to the next uh will yeah my Michael yeah I just want a plus one on on Luke and I've been having a sidebar with him a lot of the existing Solutions just speak about client to server communication the reality here is if we want to scale this which I think is a core requirement that it has to run through relays so any sort of behavior that you can force for a Harvard which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "you're an active participant you're going to need to propagate that desired Behavior across future hops where you are not one of the endpoints and I just wanted that from the very beginning the designer protocol that can be scaled over intermediaries and is not dependent upon uh client and server being on the same connection uh thanks um I I think I I second with Will some the thinking there um and and I'm going with um like what Mo and Luke was saying that how do we distribute this uh um the the publish the media from point A to point B through the relays um and that uh that meets uh that the requirements would be good first set of tasks to do okay thanks I'll leave it open for another couple seconds in case somebody else wants to add I see some plus ones in the chat uh for talking about protocol talking about relays okay and just to say thank you for your suhas for uh doing the presentation that's that was helpful yeah thanks suhas very much I think it's uh it's it's good to see those things it's a little bit daunting uh to think about all the decisions we have to make but I'm sure we'll get through them all foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "I was just going to say Ellen I think our next topic is actually uh polling to see who's going to be presenting um drafts between now and and London obviously the draft deadline is Monday so if if you haven't got your fingers to the keyboard get them on now I know we're expecting something from um Spencer and James I believe we're expecting something from Luke are we expecting any others is the next big question uh I still see Sue has some of the cube and I'm guessing that you're done yeah okay yeah I I just submit a dropped his name is a design Choice the design is based on analysis of the moq and all the the Renee is kind of the first first class citizen of the mop but there are a lot of things about the Renee is not very clear for example how do you organize the RNA how do you choose the stream from producer to Consumer which Renaissance rule if it's like the city is like a tree tree topology but we have other choice for example we can do some kind of overly routing between between the renes and there are other uh there are other things such as the that the media is and to end encrypted and the Renee cannot access a media or or Renee can decode uh can decrease the queer connection I think I think the drop is just just uh um analysis so I would like to discuss with people yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "okay so please send us the the name of the draft and uh chairs we'll take a look at it and to try and fit that into into the agenda Maxine yeah hi um yeah my co-author and I think presents an approach of uh estimating some metrics of live streaming like Twitter latency on some packet loss and related metrics so as usual we do it almost the last date or tomorrow we are thinking to publish it but we would like also to request some time to share the you and here what's the group uh things on it so so Maxima I think that's background information at a sufficiently uh deep level that is probably best if you send that to the working group mailing list um we're gonna have a pretty tight agenda in in London and it sounds like that sort of Jitter um having not not read the draft of course might be a more generic interest than specific to the design space from moq so if you could send it to the mailing list now we can take a look at it as as a group and and go from there does that make sense sure yep thank you thank you uh looks like we have Luke and Xavier in the queue Luke you're going to be the next presenter can I take Xavier first of course yeah Xavier or possibly Javier I no that's yeah yeah we tried thank you so uh yes we um we plan to propose uh to uh publish a draft uh maybe today that's on um on the type of relay that you would have at the Ingress point of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "g-networks and uh and other wireless networks and that would need to deal with the congestion and you know energy saving uh techniques so then we need certain type of metadata so I think this can contribute to the discussion like maybe in terms of uh of use case to know if this uh this type of use case would be uh suitable and also potentially in terms of metadata and you know what time of you know what time of what type of data data and where this meta that I would be needed in the in the flow okay when you have submitted the draft please send a note to the chairs and we'll take a look at it and figure out how it fits it okay thank you thank you um and the next person in queue is actually our next presenter so I'm going to go ahead and share your slides here you go thank you so um I know this interim's not meant to be too technical so this is you know not going to be too much of a discussion this is going to really be covering a little bit of the background of the previous drafts um even before the working group was formed um and just a little bit of progress on how we're trying to combine them come on go for it so the number one goal I think and this really um relates to the last slides that suhas uh have um I think the first thing we need to tackle is how do we drop media during congestion in respect to the encoding uh you just can't draw arbitrary packets with media it's going to cause decode errors but there's a lot of different techniques you could possibly do uh to effectively reduce the bit rate very rapidly during congestion uh and I wanted to go over how various different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "protocols to do that next slide uh so the first thing we need to really cover and um this is one thing that it would be nice to have in maybe even a requirements draft I don't know this is like a background of media is uh how is Media even encoded uh what are we dealing with here what are we trying to put over the network so at the top I have a very simple um this is what webrtc typically does or like really simple encoders or even iframe effectively a static image and then P frames will reference uh there are Delta encoded of a previous frame um if you look back to just the previous one that's the lowest lowest latency really uh it's also the simplest it's just a uh you can get more complicated um you can start introducing what are called B frames uh which can reference previous or feature frames and any number of them as well which is a you know equally problematic um I love Hardware encoders will have a fixed structure where this is just one example whether it's ibpbp uh even though these B frames like frame number two is a b frame it actually depends on the third one so the transport needs to be aware that frames uh yeah do reference out of order and then finally we have even what we see um is with software decodes in codes is if you really want the highest compression ratio you pretty much just have a spaghetti of references references everywhere um you still have an iframe but it's up to the encoder what references are made where this is very codec specific but you can create this uh this mess of Tangled mess of dependencies that need to somehow be respected over the network next slide so one way of doing this and this is uh what meta has been doing uh for a while"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "now is to use a quick stream for frame and the idea is there's kind of this implicit dependency that this stream depends on this stream so you should deliver them in order during congestion uh and if a stream is taking too long and it's not high priority you can send a reset stream frame to effectively drop it during congestion um this is kind of similar to how webrtc Works actually in RTP in general is uh kind of package at a frame level but there's no explicit information on the wire about these dependencies that's why those dotted arrows everywhere um next slide uh so what I've done is a a twitch had been working on warp uh the idea is we use Quick streams to just deliver what's called group of pictures in order so we don't care what the whole mess of frame dependency are we just delivered them in an order that the decoder can handle just fine uh and uh there's an ex there's an idea of prioritization such that newer content will arrive for older content and that's how you can effectively starve and drop uh during congestion um so uh yeah so Russia's previous draft out there warp is another draft uh that's uh being published uh next slide and the uh the third notable draft that we're uh trying to combine is a quick R uh it's a concept of it's far more complicated than this by the way um it's a effectively a pub sub network with the important distinction that there's a header in the front of each stream that informs a relay on how it should that that stream should be delivered such as identification prioritization timestamp any information required for a uh a larger fan out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "decision under the hood it uses rush or warp there is a section about datagrams as well but just to simplify it uses one of the two under the hood uh next slide so my goal is being to try and combine the parts of the draft that all agree with each other uh to try and find a single approach that can do either Style um at least either rush or uh warp style of um delivery and uh this I'll have this ready uh by Monday I'll at least have a draft published but just a little teaser the idea is that you can have a stream for any number of frames is effectively the compromise so you can you can do Rush where you can have a stream per frame and you can do warp when you can have multiple frames per stream uh and then there's a middle ground where you can just pick and choose whatever frames are on the stream uh the important caveat though is that there is a header within each stream that says that this stream depends on the stream or like some information for both relays and also to know what streams should be delivered in what order um to best um respond to congestion um next slide so yeah like I said uh London draft uh I'd love to talk more about the technical details I don't wanna I don't have the time to to talk too much of this interim uh and the big thing I really want to plant in people's head is uh kind of alluding to what I think a sort of chat just earlier is uh how will CDN support uh this in general I think that's an ongoing that's just something I I just want people to start thinking about it um do you want a pub sub model or are we is there some way we can map these uh streams to a traditional pull-based CDN yeah and that's not yeah I think that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "probably one of the next bigger things to uh to identify is uh if you're trying to combine all the use cases in one protocol next slide and yeah a lot of people have helped with this draft um quite a few names up here but uh the main authors I would say Luke for for warp Sue Has for a quick R and kiril for uh rush but there's been a collaborative effort amongst a lot of people so thank you that's all I got uh thank you very much uh and just for the folks here I think we we are counting this as a preview of London rather than opening this for discussion today we only have like six minutes left so definitely not enough time to dive into the details there uh so here it looks like you're in queue is it to dive into the details because if so I'm going to ask you to hold your water until the draft's out and then take to the list oh sorry my mistake it's Spencer uh also I was just going to say how to gratified I was that you all were able to find common ground to put another draft that's already encouraging that is very encouraging and we really appreciate the work on that I will um uh encourage you as you put the draft together to think about um uh what folks you need to reach out to whether they be other folks who do similar things like uh the Youtube crew or the CDN folks or uh any of our video Codec Posse here at the ITF um because we may want to get early review um from quite a variety of people if this is going to be kind of the the basis of ongoing work here I have seen in in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "past a couple of situations where we didn't do that early review quite broadly enough uh and ran into later problems so after the draft is out uh expect it to be passed from hand to hand pretty rapidly yeah I will mentioned that I just um replied to my thread on the mailing list with a link to the the current draft full of twos and uh and the GitHub if anybody would like to take a look and leave feedback okay uh that would uh definitely be great um so I think that brings us to the end of our agenda I want to thank the note takers especially uh I really appreciate it uh for work they put into to grab some notes for us is there anything else we need to cover today before we adjourn and start getting everybody ready for their final run at drafts for London Alan any Final Cuts no just thanks everyone for coming and participating and looking forward to seeing everybody in a couple weeks okay uh thanks again and we will see you on the mailing list you offer a very productive meeting"
  }
]
