[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "sorry that was the blue sheet going back we\u0027d still like some confirmation from some of the remote people that you can hear what is about to transpire yes I\u0027d like to start the meeting but I\u0027d like come for me good there we go to my co-chair my co-chair has responded so that means we\u0027re good so this is the D Kim sorry the D mark working group session this is the D mark working group session if you meant to be in TLS it\u0027s a long way away in another galaxy I think yes you\u0027re not gonna miss anything there anyway because we know the outcome so you might as well be here I\u0027m Barry I\u0027m Curtis our document editor who\u0027s taking the chair seat because we don\u0027t have another chair in the room but Tim is on Jabbar and me deco and whatever and is already two stickies Orion if necessary so my standard thing note the note well well this is the new note well so read it thoroughly because it\u0027s vastly different from the previous note that and you\u0027re actually giving something up ever eaten by taking this one on right anyway again the note well is a is a reminder and a summary and there\u0027s a whole bunch of BCPs that are actually behind it that the bottom line is be sure you make your disclosures and act properly in IETF meetings and all of that stuff next slide this is not the hallway note well it just has our logo on it because I use the company template when I made this but anyway all right here\u0027s the agenda does anybody have any issues with the agenda okay and does anybody have any issues with the agenda anything they think I don\u0027t break down the next steps on this part of the agenda but when we get to the next steps there\u0027s a whole sub agenda for that are there questions or comments about the agenda okay then so that five minutes was quick we\u0027re now gonna get right into the document status and seeing where we are on finishing up this spec so let\u0027s do that yep okay so I just released a dash 12 version yesterday because they opened up the well Sunday evening I guess it was - that was yesterday and it\u0027s been pointed out to me that a number of the proposed changes were accidentally overlooked so I already have some tweaks to do on that otherwise the main changes were taking all of the outstanding questions and moving them into tickets in the ticket tracker now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "so I\u0027d invite people to look through the ticket tracker and comment and respond to the various things there the one biggest one is semi structural and that is the proposal to take the reporting section which is now section 7.3 and pull that out into its very own document is there a sense from folks in the room whether it\u0027s worth doing that it\u0027s very interim and it probably will be interim for some period of time so either in the room or remotely any opinions about whether that\u0027s a good idea to fork it out into another document or leave it where it says yeah sure I\u0027ll relay it from the stream Alexie\u0027s asking a question did somebody ask for it to be split out Basques alexei yes there was a suggestion on the mailing lists quite some time ago that because what was in the document was interim and we expected to flesh it out in further detail later that putting it out in a separate document would make it easier to revise to Basinski um since its external and not sure standards track you could do that or just move it to the appendix but I like moving into an acceptor document because then you can sort of rev it regularly Jim hi Jim Fenton I\u0027ve liked the idea of it being in separate document largely because it when people say I\u0027ve implemented arc or I\u0027ve implemented B mark well D marks already done but when I\u0027ve implemented arc it\u0027s important to know whether they\u0027ve been you know whether they\u0027ve implemented reporting or whether they\u0027ve implemented some sort of an enforcement mechanism and it\u0027s a I I find a lot of the characterizations about D mark you know that I\u0027ve implemented B mark I don\u0027t know what that means right I would like that to be more clear going forward okay this is Barry do you not think that if the reporting stuff is in the main document that that if somebody says I\u0027ve implemented arc it means I\u0027ve implemented reporting because it\u0027s part of the main document you know the the problem that we\u0027ve seen with DES mark this is Kurt\u0027s business card speaking sorry that the problem with that we\u0027ve seen with DES mark is that the specification as it currently stands has at least three different components one is I publish and expect people to adhere to my published policy the second one is I enforce upon ingress said policies or do something with them and the third relatively independent component is I generate reports having to do with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "traffic that I received and so people will say that I\u0027ve implemented d mark and may have only done one of those three things okay this this is Barry again that seems odd to me that if three things are in the document three things are what you mean when you say you\u0027ve implemented it to me so I to me in practice that hasn\u0027t separated it out you\u0027re in fact saying that this is optional and I don\u0027t want it and I may not want it and I guess that\u0027s fair but I think the problem is that there\u0027s Demark for senders and there\u0027s Demark for receivers and essentially it\u0027s been been conceptualized that way and advertised that way so but yeah we can separate it out and that\u0027s that\u0027s easy enough to do and allows us the freedom to revise it independently okay and just as a point of reference a similar thing was done with MTA STS where the STS mechanism and the reporting mechanism which had started out as being in the same document ended up being in separate ones and so that\u0027s that that is being done elsewhere okay John yeah with I mean with Demark the problem isn\u0027t so much the labeling the problem is the work I mean I\u0027ve done I I\u0027ve implemented Demark checking on my inbound mail but actually putting everything in a database and then summarized in the database every day but all that that\u0027s a bunch of extra work which I will do someday Cody seems to and I sympathize with the problem I don\u0027t think putting in separate documents will solve anything stupid will still say I\u0027ve implemented arc I mean if you care why don\u0027t we add a section that just you know defines you know arc signing arcane validation you know and then you say you know just you know get to come up with snappy names for the parts that people might do separately and then you can just say you know and then you can recommend you can label yourself I have implemented our chain validation you know I don\u0027t think that that is at least as likely to get people to admit what they did is to put them in separate documents okay Dave Crocker while valid the problem with Jim\u0027s point is that it requires making each aspect of a service separate DCAM publishing signing versus DCAM reception validation Demark has three components so it needs three dots I think the original focus on expected rate of change is more helpful okay so actually I think maybe this discussion around e mark we can defer to the section where we\u0027re talking about what to do with the mark and get it on the standards track that may be snappy names is part of the answer there is it perhaps reasonable to leave it in the document for this experimental release with the idea that we might take it out separately for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:14",
    "text": "standards track version I can go either way I would rather have minimal extra work before we publish this so guest is a really good reason to go there we anyway we can continue that discussion on the list but I think we have the all-in-one while experimental plus one says Tim Dragan yeah all right so the Dave says the benefit of keeping it in a single dock as likelihood readers will see it which I agree with that\u0027s what I was trying to get okay so we\u0027ll stick I mean we\u0027ll we\u0027ll take it to the list but it sounds like the general thought is keeping it in the dark while experimental is keeping it one for now is what some of us say but revisit the issue of splitting it out if we go standards track when you\u0027ll go standards track we hope to do that yeah another from Dave Crocker each sub function should get an official name I agree with that as well yeah so other things around the arc protocol document is that we now have an explicit dependency on 70601 bisque which we will come to shortly in the status of other documents section so because we have fobbed some of the text and structure and things like that off to 70601 bits I don\u0027t think we can officially publish this until we kind of co-published 70601 Biss Marie is that your understanding yeah okay that was a yes from Marie in the audience otherwise content wise I\u0027ve not really had any feedback of objections to the content it\u0027s all been around making the explanation of art clearer especially for people who are coming to the work de novo and it would be great if anyone does have content objections to raise them really soon because with the exception of some minor tweaks I think that we\u0027re pretty close for our last call okay Alexi is coming to the mic and I\u0027ll add comment from Seth blank have he\u0027s been having issues with me deco so he says he feels strongly on the other side with separate Doc\u0027s but we\u0027ll save his commentary for the list right so yeah Lexi I just reviewed the diff from you know around Singapore time to now and I found a lot of you know most of new text to be very helpful and talking about limitations as well as explanations about the thing I I think it\u0027s a definitely going in the right direction yeah our question is how close are we to having something that we can can release yeah thanks any other observations from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:14",
    "text": "people comments otherwise please look at look at the tickets that have been newly filed make comments on the tickets or make them on the list and we\u0027ll transport them back onto the issue tracker and we\u0027ll try to wrap this up I\u0027ll also say in the middle of next month I also say expect uh this is 12 expect a 13 yep very soon because we lost some of this weekend\u0027s updates that yep we\u0027ll get in yeah Seth says only other question is if anything is missing from the experimental consideration section that should be reflected in the doc for last call Seth do you have any anything any specific no I think he\u0027s asking he\u0027s inviting people that if they want to add any further considerations in their time voice them soon okay I think that\u0027s what you\u0027re asking Seth is it correct yes invitation if anyone thinks there are missing items okay okay all right so I think we\u0027re done with that topic yes yep no good other documents so the usage document so the usage document has only had some minor tweaks along the way I suspect that it\u0027s still a bit of a hodgepodge and I\u0027m not quite sure how heavily we need to pursue it at this point because we\u0027d really like to get some real practical experience and then be able to codify that into the usage document I\u0027m not sure how much this overlaps with the D mark usage document right so the question that this brings up is whether as we\u0027re putting forth an experimental arc do we want to put a put out an experimental usage document or save the usage document for after we\u0027ve gotten an experimental experience does anyone have a thought on that Tim is waving his hand you want that as someone who does a lot of operational stuff you want that usage document after you\u0027ve collected some useful experimental data I think that would be my that was my thought - yeah but that\u0027s Tim whiskey there okay thank you so I will put that out on the list also to confirm and we\u0027ll plan to just continue revising the draft with ongoing learning through the experimental period and then have something toward the end that we can put out and Seth comments on the jabber Channel he agrees for post experimental mic sorry Tim is saying put a note in the experimental doc that we are actively seeking data okay good I do I taken thank you okay any other comments on the usage documents we\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "come back to it if there are let\u0027s move on to multi lovely Murray oh no I\u0027m ready for the next one oh okay so moving on multiple signing algorithm trying to keep us will lead off with Moreno though I\u0027m sorry I was I was looking at somebody so he\u0027s jumping ahead okay so the multiple signing algorithms is an attempt to deal with the impending release under antique rope of elliptic curve signatures it is secondary and the reason we put it in a separate document is because we aren\u0027t really expecting it to be a live issue for some period of time yet and we wanted to be able to move arc with a single RSA sha-256 algorithm forward and john levine is coming to the mic the other reason to make it a separate document is that it is slightly incompatible with the exist with with all the code that people have existed so far and given the current stuff as an experiment I concur with everybody who says ship it and see wait see what we don\u0027t like and then we can fix it all at once yep so we didn\u0027t buy people to look at it and we\u0027ll have a separate thread of discussion around how we deal with that as you say slight incompatibility with the current code bases that are out there so the expectation is that this would be rolled into the base spec for the standards track correct yes yep okay further comments questions on the multiple singing algorithms sorry signing I\u0027m just thinking back to cabaret again yeah Steve Jones says okay offline comment I don\u0027t know if that means that he doesn\u0027t want me to say it but I\u0027ll say it anyway if I remember correctly the usage dr. arc was originally needed to explain why and how people would make use of arc if those questions are now answered in the main spec great if not maybe retitle an experimental recommendation guide yeah agreed that a usage guide should be produced based on real-world experience existing guide was to help us get to that point all true yep so well we\u0027ll see what we do with that maybe we\u0027ll just leave it as a draft as a place to collect information and publish updates as we go okay so now now Murray Murray can leap to the microphone and here\u0027s Mary morning 76006 Oh an abyss I don\u0027t have anything outstanding I was holding on to it just to make sure that Alexi was comfortable with us dragging a whole bunch of issues that have nothing to do with Demark into this update just for the sake of not doing multiple updates so one document so with that clearance now I have AI stuff to add I have a request from D Krupp to add header dot a into this and I think that is all that I was waiting on so I need to I owe the Working Group one update that does those things and then I think this is ready I don\u0027t know what what other feedback would want to get so I will note that what we what and Alexei is chatting off mic here which he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:18",
    "text": "should know better bad boy you want to repeat it for him go ahead here here I can hand it to you he\u0027s my understanding correct that version zero zero is the same as RFC and now Marie is off okay is that they\u0027re wrong well no there\u0027s there is there is a very zero zero and there\u0027s Kutcher ah be zero zero and there\u0027s working group zero zero right working group zero zero is the revised version Marie zero zero or kucherov a zero zero is the copy of the existing dog and I did it that way so that you can see in the tracker here is what changed between those seven 601 and yeah I was looking for this information I didn\u0027t find it alright so your document needs to least change is since the last RFC so this is the main thing you know I\u0027m looking at the document if I couldn\u0027t find it if I I need to know what\u0027s changed it\u0027s in the tracker but I can give you a little summary section at the end that says delete before publication or something no this is required for this document okay no no no soil then I owe you an update that has the es of hetero day and a changes since the RFC yeah and so the what what this working group cares about in relation to what Marie just said is that we have agreed we the chairs and the ad have agreed to put in some stuff that is not related to this working group in order to avoid a second Rev of 70601 yes and that means that that is in way of getting it published for us we don\u0027t think that\u0027s a problem because we don\u0027t think it will cause any delay I just wanted to make sure the working group was aware of that point yep that was the only reason I was waiting to do one word Dave and Mary before you leave to Mike since Tim is trying to shut shoulder you as for this is the working group 70601 this and where is it oh then I did take that out that it 70601 Biss has a diff to 7001 so I need to get remove that yeah okay yeah okay I have some you know do you have a realistic timeline this way none of the embargo is up oh those are all that\u0027s all lightweight get it Lee editing so very good post that and we can go straight into working group last call got it as we thank you nice working group last call coming soon to a theater near you excellent all right that takes care of the other documents that are currently in and so we now get to the next steps which is where we\u0027re nice and early we have plenty of time for that which is what I had hoped for we\u0027ll start off with one of the goals of this working group was to document the issues that the community has with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:18",
    "text": "operation of Demark as it is and then look at what we need to do to get us to a standard version of d mark mark is one step in that of helping us resolve some of the issues that d mark is causing assuming correct assuming arc actually does help with this what do we need to do as a working group to move forward to a proposed standard version of d mark so I\u0027ll ask the first question of you predicated that there was an assumption that you were predicating upon their that arc actually works to to mitigate those problems does that mean that we need to put everything on the shelf for some period of time until we get arc enough enough operational experience across a large enough set of operators to know that arc does or does not mitigate the problems as a participant my opinion of that is we don\u0027t need to wait we may not be may not want to publish a proposed standard version before we have more experience with arc but that doesn\u0027t mean we necessarily need to wait to work on it so if you have a direction we need to go we think we need to go then I I see that we can move forward while we are doing the experiment I\u0027m looking for I know dave has some comments would you like to voice things here Dave anyone in the room have anything to say oh here\u0027s Dave Dave Crocker given the degree of IETF objection to demarks lack of comfortable processing through intermediaries I doubt D mark can go without it where if I presume means some success in arc or a similar mitigation yes he says and Neil is trapped madly trying to get to a microphone here comes Neil Jenkins so he doesn\u0027t even have to say his name go for it okay yeah I just won\u0027t make comment that I think we do need to have some time with arc in practice was implemented to see if this resolves those issues because the important a lot big important part of this is whether providers cannot build up a trust relationship on which arc seals they are going to trust because just because you know you know it\u0027s come from someone else now but that doesn\u0027t mean you necessary and so we already know that they can because we have that demonstrated and attested to by certain large providers who have already done so okay fine whether they will or not is another question and not all will yeah they can okay maybe then I should rephrase that as from my heart fast mail hat on a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "slightly smaller provider we have we are implanting this and having to do quite a lot a lot of it but not quite the rest of it yet we have yet to see whether we get sufficient volume I guess to build up the trust mechanisms that we can accurately use this I guess and whether that can be extrapolated out to other providers at a similar scale fair enough I know that in conversations with various folks in the MOG environment that the concern of how much volume is necessary to get a sufficient sort of bootstrapping is an open question Tim points out a list of Demark Interop issues in our wiki and you can check jabber for that link or you can just look at the wiki dave says I suggest documenting Demark experience issues and projected changes that are believed sufficient to justify standardization yet working group consensus on the doc then circulated to the IETF and the iesg soliciting comments this would serve as a non-binding community feedback exercise from gondwana I have another point I guess to put to that which is it\u0027s easy to confirm that everything works when people aren\u0027t trying to abuse it yet we won\u0027t really know if it works until people try to abuse it quite and so we have the the issue that with a an arc chain you may have multiple arc sets in there of different domains at the end you have to make a decision of whether that arc chain is okay to override the the Demark policy of the sender and that is totally out of scope of the spec but everybody has to make that decision and we don\u0027t know how that decision will be made or how abusive domains in the arc and an arc set from an abusive domain may be dealt with and Neil says that\u0027s the important bit Jim Jim Fenton again I I think one thing that we should consider is that there are going to be some use cases for email that are going to break with Demark plus arc I mean the one that I can think of is the sentence and send this news article to a friend or basically the the newspaper site spoofs your email address now we can decide whether those are important or not I\u0027m just kind of pointing out that those exist and one of the things that we should clarify there why do you think that that breaks with Demark plus arc my view of that is it breaks with d mark but arc is is intended to help with that sexually doesn\u0027t help with the hell it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s explicit spoofing yeah but it\u0027s it okay it\u0027s it\u0027s spoofing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "without authorization because there\u0027s no way that you can prove that you authorized the New York Times to send that article to me I see it as a similar thing to the mailing list you you like the ietf mailing list you like the New York Times to whatever like but you can you can like the New York Times today arc doesn\u0027t bring anything to that okay yes I\u0027ll buy that the it\u0027s it\u0027s the precedent that arc sets that arc arc is setting up an expectation that you\u0027re going to use some sort of reputation or trust system to agree that this arc chain is okay and you can apply that same reasoning to the New York Times forwarding thing but anyway okay yeah right data points so that that\u0027s fine you could you could do that in any case what we might want to consider and and maybe this is something that can be done in parallel with the experimentation is what sort of breakages might be acceptable breakages and what sorts of breakages might not be acceptable breakages or you know this is just sort of a hypothetical I\u0027m throwing out that that some things are going to break and we might want to think in advance about what the criteria are that we\u0027re going to use when we when we do get the experimental results okay well that might be something that we address in going to the proposed standard is we take the 79 60 list of problems and we explicitly address them as a portion of the proposed standard Demark yes yes it may be that this that the New York Times forwarding issue is part of a standard spec that says apply the same sort of trust and reputation stuff anyway my Haddon point so anyway on yeah dave says Barry\u0027s point is worth a separate careful discussion it\u0027s not the first time this scenario has come up for arc it might not be possible to make it work adequately but I think it might actually be useful and Tim says of all the identified Interop issues calendaring is one of the sharper unaddressed breakage points so he\u0027s bringing up something we haven\u0027t talked about here yet Dave continues here\u0027s a teaser for why it might work normal use of arc requires having a basis for trusting the first arc signer so would the third-party origination yes that\u0027s the point I was trying to make okay and Steve Jones says both our origination of a message at a third-party arc isn\u0027t designed for this so yes this is part of the discussion of how Demark could be a standard not necessarily in our discussion and I I\u0027m thinking I\u0027m not sure if Steve was replying to Tim\u0027s point about calendaring or I think of Dave\u0027s Dave\u0027s okay deal I had no Jenkins clarify sorry what the calendaring issue was that Jim would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:23",
    "text": "you care to expand upon your comment with calendaring while he\u0027s doing that while he\u0027s typing up forwarding on calendar invites so right now on most platforms if you invite me to a meeting and I forward that to Barry because I want him to join the meeting as well it forwards it as if you originated it so essentially it spoofs your address when I originate the forwarded invite I don\u0027t it does because normally if you\u0027re forwarding the email that\u0027s just email right yeah just seems like if you\u0027re taking a calendar object and you\u0027re adding a new guest to the list but that seems like breakage and it seems like calendar the calendar stuff is doing it wrong I would argue one way it\u0027s it\u0027s that\u0027s open to discussion I believe and maybe we defer that too yeah yeah you next or whatever the right group is for that are you forwarding the email that contains the last invitation no your calendar app you are saying forward this invitation to curbs or oh you like burying the delegating as well this person has an invitee yeah okay so that there\u0027s no need I don\u0027t see a need that the email that that creates has to spoof the sender because all the information is in the ICS file yes but that\u0027s a discussion that has to be had in the right venue and we are not it but it certainly is an issue and Dave Dave Karger points out that as the host of a meeting I want calendaring mail about that event to be on my behalf which means it\u0027s best if it is quote unquote from me okay so Dave Dave is saying the opposite of what I just said and that\u0027s a don\u0027t anyway well it will be we\u0027ll move that to a calendaring sort of space but there is definitely observed problems in that right Seth says arc helps where an intermediary breaks authentication information allowing it to be encapsulated and transmitted when the originator never authenticates properly begin with that\u0027s out of scope and I\u0027ll point out to Seth we\u0027re not talking about arc anymore we are talking about the the D mark spec and how we get that to propose standards so let\u0027s get out of the the mote the thinking mode that we\u0027re talking about arc right now other comments about what we need to do to move D mark forward do we one of the topics we touched on earlier in the meeting was this idea that there are three slightly distinct or at least there\u0027s a sender and receiver side with kind of an optional reporting component to DES mark would it be helpful to structure restructure the spec to acknowledge the fact that there\u0027s very different work levels of work and work involved for each of those parties compared to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:23",
    "text": "way it\u0027s structured now which is perhaps not quite as explicit about those roles so that you can\u0027t necessarily say I\u0027ve implemented Demark and have somebody understand what that means so Kurt is pointing out perhaps we need to restructure the Demark spec as part of the proposed standard yeah version Seth reminds us that Dave called out we should get open issues with D mark into the issue tracker we do have them in the wiki but we should create a separate tracker issue for each we will the chairs will take on the responsibility for that Marie that sticks his thumb up in the air and everybody else is reading their emails so are we done with this topic for now there\u0027s clearly a lot more discussion that has to go on with this is there more that we can benefit from the face-to-face time we have because I\u0027m still feeling like I don\u0027t know what the next step is I do I mean we\u0027ve had this discussion we\u0027ve identified some open issues some of which we knew about before that we continue to chew on but I mean the the nominal next step that was identified according to our Charter was writing up this usage of Demark sort of document which is still sort of an open question about does that bring value is that a necessary precondition to moving do you mark to propose standard I\u0027ll leave that question open well Tim says draft Demark usage guide required to exit phase 2 does it expired milestone I will say I think the very next step is as we\u0027ve said to put to separate out the issues that remain with Demark that need to be dealt with as we move it forward and start discussing how we resolve those issues and Tim says no not an expired milestone sorry an expired dock right it\u0027s an expired dock and I think that some of the mailing list conversation recently was around the point of we have a document albeit expired and that seemed to meet the official definition of having a dog for the milestone so we could in theory exit phase two but then it\u0027s unclear whether we can move on past phase three if this is a a charter required deduction I think we need an approved usage guide before we start moving on the issues with the D mark spec I don\u0027t think so I don\u0027t think either looking for other jams Jim just looking at the file name of the draft it looks like the draft is an individual as opposed to a working group draft so you can at least get six months by adopting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:25",
    "text": "it as a working group draft and reusing it can indeed so the in Tim Tims demote Tim is the has the pen on the de mark usage guide should we give Tim the go-ahead to post that as a working group draft to get us moving on that does anyone object to doing that and using Tim\u0027s version as a starting point for the D mark usage guy hearing and seeing no objections I will post that to the list for objections and give it a week or two and then we\u0027ll move on further discussion on moving de mark forward okay and then there are a couple of items that Alexis Joe I think it\u0027s fine to start working on it before arc is finished my only concern is I would like art to be done oh yeah as you know you have every plan to do that okay be assured your chairs not rest until ark is in the publication queue or the drop from exhaustion rank or we drop from exhaustion or lack of coffee okay Tim Tim Kurt has um he\u0027s sitting next to me so I think he\u0027s Tim you understand that the Kurt has two issues that he picked up from a discussion within CSC so go for it sure the first one here we surfaced on the list a couple of months ago and they have observed through their magical Demark reporting analysis software that people are attempting to spoof domains that do not exist under Godot UK and because of the methodology for figuring out what domain to query there is no way to in a straightforward sense protecting non-existent org domain because one never queries the order minus one or the last public domain to get a record that says hey if something doesn\u0027t exist then it shouldn\u0027t be sending mail and apparently a lot of people a lot of receivers don\u0027t necessarily say if the domain doesn\u0027t exist maybe I shouldn\u0027t accept mail so the question is is this something that other than having a trick DNS server which will answer with text records that say send me a report of all these people who are attempting to spoof non-existent domains is there a good way to deal with this and just to clarify we\u0027re talking about getting this division from the public suffix list this is sort of the D bound problem some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:25",
    "text": "aspect of the D pound problem yeah at the moment we\u0027re still relying on the existing PSL driven or domain definition but even if we came up with a different mechanism the problem would still exist and set points out that this is being seen with other domains it\u0027s a real issue with just gov and Microsoft and dot bank yea doubtless domains especially have this heartless domains we don\u0027t have dauntless domains Neil Jenkins I\u0027m just wondering whether um this is actually no by much if the receiver could check if I guess so I have a bad thing you through there I was thinking if the receivers not checking whether the domain just doesn\u0027t exist then it\u0027s unlikely to do Demark checks as well but actually the domain does exist it\u0027s just this subdomain right let\u0027s say for example junk of UK does not exist or the one that they point out is actively abused as tax duck of the UK hmm it does not exist and yet there are quite a few fraud things going on and apparently getting through to people\u0027s mailboxes because my receivers are accepting the mail and then saying oh yeah I happily accepted ten million messages from text the point here is that gov dot uk\u0027 wants to say not just that mail that comes from gov dot UK but is not authenticated should be rejected but rather that mail that comes from any sub domain that doesn\u0027t exist of UK should be rejected and and that they should be told about it in an aggregate okay so I think there\u0027s an existing mechanism for saying I don\u0027t send any mail like you still have to do that yeah this is part of what this is maybe or maybe something in the base Demark for a standards track version and it could be this problem yeah I mean it yeah it could be in addition to the spec it could be a revision the problem is that even if you say P equals reject by default on an NX demand that doesn\u0027t give you a mechanism to get an aggregate report right so a dave says this is C was both useful and unrelated to D Marc David do you still think it\u0027s unrelated and Seth says it is related to D Marc because of how an organizational domain is defined and there are instances where the organization is the top level and they don\u0027t no longer have control of Demark policy okay so I don\u0027t think that that yes this is a good topic I don\u0027t know that we need more face time on the topic I think we need to discuss this more after we start moving the the spec Dave "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:26",
    "text": "says the relationship to Demark needs to be made very careful and I certainly agree with that this whole issue is difficult yep the second item from ncsc the second item is that they are finding in dealing with some of the organizations within the their span of control that it would be very helpful to get slightly more information than is currently available in an aggregate report and they have indications from people that they would be willing to send more information but they\u0027re not willing to send what\u0027s asked for in a forensic report so their question was whether or not it would make sense to define something in between that could have a bit more information that would be helpful for a company let\u0027s say that it\u0027s trying to figure out where weird bits of mail are emerging yeah in a positive sense so let\u0027s say they\u0027ve got a marketing arm that has done something strange and they\u0027re emitting mail it would be helpful to have a report that could help identify that weird mail stream without necessarily having to go as far as forensic reports tim was Sinskey wait up sorry we have we have a couple on Roberto going back to the previous topic Ned comments that he agrees he\u0027s not convinced that this should be addressed with DES mark and Steve Jones says perhaps we need to be clear how much freedom the report generator has with respect to what details are included in the forensic report Tim Tim with sinski they could set that TTL on that wild card Tech\u0027s record in W K a lot higher than 1800 seconds but your butt actually your your question about that the between forensic and and let\u0027s say you\u0027re a large enterprise company let\u0027s say sales force and you have marketing groups that are doing stuff you have no idea you want to figure out who they are but you don\u0027t want to block them why you go track down and go you know that\u0027s directly this is exactly the problem one of the problems were trying to solve yep yep so the the basic thing here is would it be useful to have another level of reporting in between write basic and considerate semi aggregated maybe yeah and and there\u0027s laughter in the room at that term I\u0027ll mention one possible tie-in with what we were talking about with Demark which is the association with the from address in the email as opposed to the envelope address or other things d mark is one place that we establish some some relationship there and I think if it were done outside of D mark that relationship would be a lot more tenuous okay and Alexis coming to the mic I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:27",
    "text": "think my suggestion is can somebody propose the text and we can have a look what sizing I I suggested to them and they said yes they would be willing to throw something together but I only met with them last Thursday so we\u0027ve not seen anything out of that yet but yeah well we\u0027ll see what they have to propose or specifically request and then Tim maybe you would have something you could throw on the list as far as content you would find helpful so I\u0027m sorry I was distracted when Alexei made his comment what was it about the request was to have some specifics proposed as to what would be in the semi aggregated report the other Tim Tim Osinski will also be glad to propose text for that okay and it may be yeah we may have other report processors and folks that that help companies move along the spectrum from none toward reject that may have some opinions as far as other information that could be helpful in in accomplishing that work Steve Jones adds to his other comment that he hasn\u0027t looked recently but perhaps one or two examples of an information-rich forensic report and a very heavy D heavily redacted forensic report so in other words Steve put that in have the document include the examples and Dave says might be interesting to split the entire reporting mechanisms from the alignment requirement mechanism can you I\u0027m not quite sure what you\u0027re getting at there Dave and I wonder if Dave is alluding to a conversation that came up pertaining to the fourth bullet slide here last week perhaps reporting is more general separate from field enforcement that\u0027s what he says and Steve Jones says in spec or separate doc is fine but provide examples of the intermediate content flavor and CSC was suggesting right yep that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to have them put together for us yeah any other questions or comments around this it sounds like we need to go get some more follow-up from yes individuals follow-up from NCSC and and have them kill will will they join the discussion on the mailing list yes they will there have been some of them along the way excellent so I need to find the next document here yes we\u0027re now into the the Demark verification without record "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "definitions so do we have a speaker for the slides on that who is going to present that hang on for just a minute while I find your slides yes please come up here and stand in the big box the micro the camera can see and the slides are up yes oh yeah I\u0027m kinkiest uh Castle Rock 10 so thank you for joining thank you for your dice for this address so today so yes I\u0027m so buddy stone yeah I saw I\u0027m here now so it was also here that\u0027s all David so maybe so yeah he will help me yeah so if necessary because origin is all my religious or something a pariah also some 3-4 to some well yeah yeah you need to stand a little closer to the microphone please okay yeah that\u0027s better yeah yeah the agenda so maybe so yeah at this time as I\u0027d like to share about the soap a dirty mug again yeah and also so I have a harpy so if you could an interesting or a concern something about the Saudis document so that\u0027s so it\u0027s good opportunity for you and us to join a to discuss your mailing list were so activity or especially in prevent a SOHO dispatcher d-mac so yeah yeah so what things are so but your Demark again yeah so maybe so you know so there are a case where so the amok evaluation to press even with that Saudi mustard a code so yeah they see but Jung beta fryer so such a deserter so - yeah the marker as a so Perdita the Saudi Mac pass so yeah so first so we named a so this mechanism as a supercharged a Mac so yeah here is the overview for virtually marks so yes so as you can see maybe so yeah at the current document so maybe so I was copy the only so arraignment ax so without the so the record may be so yeah in some cases so yeah we so Thole so and not know but the so has resulted pass so yeah here either so so we simulate how opportunity mock-ups to efficient operation it I saw some Japanese ISPs maybe so they are so a medium mailboxes or also major company in Japan but the so he the so only so Japan limited so desert may be so yeah I hope a so you are oversee ISP company so joining us also this also verification desert research man yeah and also so yeah I wish air so how to calculate or a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:30",
    "text": "simulator so for this verification so yeah but so yeah as far as so I confirm I saw in only Japan maybe so yeah budget in marketing potential for so yeah two liters or in mock pass so again so yeah maybe so I actually side easy pass or some commented oh yeah yeah so maybe so some people may have doubt about the budget eMac so yeah I understand so their opinion but so anyway so yeah please so discuss about the budget image again so when I saw budget America so maybe so yeah I so I mean so yeah but the value about the America so to think maybe so yeah budget email control Peter so number one is over yeah is mated email also so yeah okay I\u0027m not sure when you need the slight change so yes so a also so maybe so why we need to document for budget Emacs so yes so you know some Microsoft was already adopted so based against process so yeah for original totemic policy and the other idea so yeah we already understand so Tiaras so difference between so budget email cancel or eternity mark so specification yes so in case of us oh no Democratic also idiot called it should be unknown at the identity mark or attorney mark but also I\u0027d like to change as so disappoint us so yeah in a Soviet City in buddy mark working group also so yeah yeah it is so current to update our so so we are not only so documentation but also so we already studied so impedimenta testing yeah run over so militant program they also may be in your future so we with support this or open D mark and also yeah I understand so yeah so we need to more much discuss about a some issue yes actually saw some members of comment to us about the so a document yeah so finally so yeah but the next yeah so as I mentioned before so yeah we need to implement or academic office or so yeah I\u0027m also so they work mentor so budget in McCall deceiver as I\u0027m so Microsoft other a Korea so that is information or affected for budget America not only Japan ISP but also OPA CSIC isomeric are providers also so yeah so discussion yeah so yeah so lastly so yeah is there any possibility so to treat backing group item or a so I continue to discussion in your so this working group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:30",
    "text": "for so Fatima yeah so yeah I hope uh so yeah maybe so can we do this document together so yeah okay so this this is perrolli but I have a comment as a participant I don\u0027t get it we already have SPF tests or fails you know passes or fails and we have that\u0027s recorded in the authentication results and we have D Kim passes or fails and that\u0027s recorded in the authentication results D mark is meant to do two things provide a policy from the original sender the purported sender and specify a mechanism for reporting if they are not publishing a Demark record that\u0027s out of the picture well but they know we have can i interject yes it also brings the concept of alignment into the picture but so does SPF but I I\u0027m not getting how without a Demark record published I don\u0027t see the value in putting a de mark result in authentication results we have an SPF result and we have a deacon result and then we already have people making their decisions on delivering the message based on those two results I don\u0027t see how putting a de mark authentication results when there is no D mark record benefits us Neil Jenkins I agree with Barry I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any information you\u0027re adding that\u0027s not already president present in the authentication results and acting on this information is if there\u0027s no policy from the sender at this point it\u0027s it\u0027s just whatever policies or the the receiver is deciding to implement so there\u0027s nothing really standardized that I guess you could make some recommendations of things that might work in the real world but really this is all the receivers responsibility to work out if someone is a sender not publishing d mark but seems to be always signing stuff they might want to do something with unsigned stuff from them but that\u0027s up to the receiver that\u0027s not really related to this but I think I would interject oh sorry Dave had a mic comment go ahead Dave says consider this as independent of D mark consider whether it\u0027s useful for a receiving filter engine to know that there is no from field alignment it\u0027s an added evaluation point not a policy assertion so I guess the one thing SPF already has that so the one thing we\u0027re adding no SPL does not a from field right it\u0027s a 321 but open education results already include this information the sufficient information to be able to determine this well it says the SP a from domain the domain that was verified and you have the Raman was yes and you have the prom yeah so you can do any alignment you want is in the filter is it valid is it valuable to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:31",
    "text": "have a separate authentication results header that that aligns them they\u0027re already doing we\u0027re already doing that alignment yeah yeah the information is there that\u0027s a fair point so okay yeah so I have again not chairing here I have a mild objection to accepting this as extra work for the working group when I don\u0027t think it has any significant value yes Hoess on the veldt if you don\u0027t have a D mark record published you can\u0027t even send a report back to the to the domain correct so any change in the authentication authorization stuff makes no sense I think Tim Tim ocinski I\u0027d wait till d mark standardized before you start thinking about her hat there on the edges of it sort of thing like true I don\u0027t think if we were to accept this I don\u0027t think we would do it now yeah but it\u0027s worth bringing this forward now and discussing whether we think yeah it\u0027s value I\u0027m as I said I\u0027m reluctant to spend resources of the working group on signing with such little value agreed also my other comment was if you haven\u0027t signed a blue sheet please do so yep I\u0027ll even write here okay we have two more minutes for further discussion of this or anything else you want to bring up or is there any more discussion of the virtual Demark so I guess I\u0027ll ask the question why do you feel that this is given that all the information is already there that you\u0027re already making your own decisions on the basis of all of this information why try to call this anything Demark what we are some of us are saying we don\u0027t see added value in this what do you think the added value is that you would come back to us and what while they\u0027re discussing this is there as there any other any other things we need to discuss in the 30 seconds we have left Ned freed says boil it down exactly what is this additional header field telling us yes that\u0027s what several of us are asking so and anything else we need to discuss okay we\u0027re okay thank you do you have an answer or Kuchipudi is so human it\u0027s a so maybe so I will send an email by today or so tomorrow okay okay on the list excellent excellent we will follow up on this discussion on the list and unless there\u0027s anything truly urgent I think we are the journeying seeing nothing I think we are adjourned thank you all for coming Thank You Julie "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:33",
    "text": "most people I just want to add one thing that Steve Jones just said the only place this would be seen is within the receiver or if the message is forwarded the receiver is free to do whatever they want internally what would be the impact of an additional D mark equals value if the message is forwarded answer discussion on the list and thank you particularly to the remote participants for spending the time with us by everybody but if you wish you can HF 101 DiMarco no punctuation in there it was right at the top on our "
  }
]