[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "yeah I\u0027m on it [Music] see the charts - no we\u0027re not gonna get rid of I don\u0027t know where that came from which one are you trying to connect "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:16",
    "text": "two whole days are you know it\u0027s just idea although case it\u0027s very secure good [Music] it\u0027s also this is like a kitchen team why would they have that is one of the options on the schedule because it\u0027s home time zone I mean I want to have this heavily request warmer I thought the reason we did yes there are a number of participants in Europe but they\u0027re also someone east coast is us yeah okay Chloe wait um yeah we do not have a jabber scribe all right look Moe had already volunteered to take notes but then didn\u0027t show up we were kind of yes otherwise we\u0027ll have to volunteer someone else I did the notes for net DC but maybe they were terrible "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:29",
    "text": "question question my sister the one of the numbers one of the business oh he wants to just yeah sure go ahead yeah means we get to push the big red button hello look can you see me in here me yeah we can hear you I\u0027m not sure we can see you yep perfect okay hello hello okay that\u0027s all I just want to make sure that you could see and/or hear me now how do I leave the queue relinquish control alright maybe we should find an alternate note-taker anybody like to volunteer to take well well so we probably shouldn\u0027t volunteer our ad we probably shouldn\u0027t volunteer our presenter and probably shouldn\u0027t volunteer our JavaScript losses specifically specifically volunteered to Java scarves we didn\u0027t have to take notes that only leads us to people I think you\u0027re referring to two people who don\u0027t follow this at all yep exactly thank you Dan yes for people who are remote and didn\u0027t hear the people in the room not speaking into microphones if you would like something specifically recorded in the minutes please make sure to note it explicitly yeah you\u0027re off the hook Tim all right can everyone hear "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:56",
    "text": "me is this a reasonable volume okay great so thank you everybody for coming this is the second in-person meeting of codec encoding for lossless archiving and real-time transmission aka seller mm before we get started does anybody need to need us to read the note well or to go over the note well okay but I\u0027ll just I\u0027ll read it for my own edification any submission to the IETF intended by contributor for publication as all are part of an IETF internal draft or RFC and any statement made within the context of an IETF activity is considered an IETF contribution substation statements include oral statements in IDs essence as well as written and electronic communications made at any time or place which are addressed to and then you have the the list of those places to which communications can be addressed so if there aren\u0027t any further questions about the note well we can go on to a brief introduction I suppose I should introduce myself I\u0027m Tessa Fallon and co-chair of seller and and I\u0027m Tim Taylor very sorry so that we helped already have our jabber scribe and our note-taker so if you do have a question or a comment and you\u0027re in the room please remember to use the microphones that are placed in the center of the aisle and to clearly articulate your question as well as your name that will help people who are attending remotely and as well as our note takers and the recording okay so are there any changes to the agenda or any any proposed changes to the agenda at this point okay so the agenda has not changed from when we first made it available online so you can go past that gone to the milestones we have a number of milestones that were planned for 2017 so I think after we get an update on the status of each of the proposed standards we can go into more of a discussion about those and about which milestones we\u0027ve sort of we\u0027ve I guess you can\u0027t really sort of meet a milestone you either you either do or you don\u0027t right mm-hmm but I know we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:58",
    "text": "on track for several of them and so I just want to make sure that everybody is on the same page and we know what the next sar in terms of getting the documents to their to their appropriate tracks I think in terms of the FFP one video codec versions zero to three we have we have the informational draft approved by by the working group so I think I don\u0027t know that we sent out a formal announcement or if it\u0027s appropriate to send out a formal announcement for meeting a milestone will be closed from the document actually published okay great so that we had approved by the group Oh though it\u0027s also when you update a milestone in the data tracker it doesn\u0027t seal off of a list automatically so when you have actually met it updated the update the data tracker and people get announcements of it this has been technically your milestones or are written as is smart to do in terms of finding to the IHG not publication your milestone is done when you hit when you public it I assume that it mean it\u0027s over that means that damn house stone is done I assume that shortly after this we will come up with dates that are in the future yes there\u0027s a little bit of July left yeah but I don\u0027t expect a lot of work out of people next week these are people that are flying back from Prague I mean I\u0027ve only included the milestones up through July the there\u0027s two additional milestones I think December Florida 2017 for slack and then September 2017 I think for for the next version of Matroska and then on the next slide just a screenshot of the current document states and the comments as they exist and the two FFP one documents are there because there is there was an issue with updating version and instead of updating the existing version we we got two versions so I have been meaning to look into that and and I shall okay so that is it from me unless you have anything to add Tim nope nothing for me okay we go to our first presenter Jo Martinez okay so John Martinez I will inform you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:58",
    "text": "about the status of fev1 specifications first we during the last year we checked the difference between the spec and the rifles decoder for iPhones the encoder and decoder our ffmpeg for government and in the reference encoder has some non bags for example some integer overflows or some difficulties with color mapping so both encoder and the decoder are the bags and it is impossible to do the difference between Peggy files and the file not very because this is only most issues are about colors so the streams is valid in our case but the colossus Arbitron so as it is a bit challenging to change now reference encoder and decoder and the files are already in the white so we put documentation of the exception in the specification instead of changing the reference encoder and decoder so now the specification contains the expected format plus some exceptions for the documentation of the bags in the reference encoder and decoder so the spec an encoded in sync this has been so refresh my memory because I\u0027ve been to a lot of things this week this is one of the milestones which is documenting reality as opposed to building something new that correct you right so there\u0027s a milestone for four versions up through three which are documenting reality and then there\u0027s a separate milestone for the next edition and so when you\u0027re talking about the files and the one we\u0027re talking about the document reality part right that\u0027s correct okay so that\u0027s exactly right I mean if there\u0027s bugs in that then we just the documentation is perfectly ffv one version zero one and three are files in the wild so it is difficult to change them and we shouldn\u0027t try and which wouldn\u0027t have right so the specification was not containing the exception so we added the exception instead of showing the files in the white and if our version for we will fix what okay so when you say the next version of the format you mean next version of the format next not next version of the draft for virgin one no no no the next session of the format we will change we fix the bugs in encoder and decoder maybe I will decide it will be a discussion in the mailing list we can keep them as Aziz or we can fix fix that in the next version in order to have something more acquaint in the environment but for the moment of version zero one and three FISA are in the wild we don\u0027t want them we only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:59",
    "text": "document and generally we met our view of a specification with some cleanup sometimes we are not using the exact same wording for the same thing so we reuse now everywhere the same name for the same thing and we change some formatting about formulas in order to be more compatible compatible with NFC output and we also doing the reviews so but there is some issues the specification was not exactly was in variations encoder/decoder but in that case we can fix the specification for example there was an unsigned in the the decoder and respect was saying signed it was a cheapo so we fixed that in the specification without breaking the files in the way we also added a more description in the specification in order to be very explicit about the meaning of each item we when it was not very clear we were world were well did some sections so now we expect that every item in the specification is clear and correctly described we added a mapping for matroska of history historical part if everyone in Matroska was using the API a compatibility layer of Matroska and we don\u0027t want to use a compatibility layer from Microsoft for example and we we want to have a direct mapping between everyone and Matroska without using any compatibility layer this compatibility and this codec ID is added in ffmpeg but not by default but writing so reading is it\u0027s okay but for writing we want doing a couple of doing sometimes to be compatible with older version of ffmpeg not supporting native FLV 140kg so we don\u0027t write by default this new codec ID in ffmpeg or still our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:00",
    "text": "goal is always to to have some compatibility with the files in the white and not create issues for the decoding because we can still use old ffmpeg versions in Reverse but it it is ready for the future and we have a native codec ID so temporary vary from the floor is is this something that we want to specify in this document or is this more properly belong and one of the Matroska documents [Music] permanent we defined if ffv one document all the mapping between fev1 and avi if every one and a movie at everyone and Matroska it it may be in ffv one document it may be in Moscow document it may be a single document this is to be decided Parliament the three map none mapping a movie avi and Moscow are in F every one document it could be decided to extract that it is only a paragraph so to be decided for the moment it is inside if every one document is it something we should remove and put somewhere else right so I have no idea what the answer to my question is but maybe some of our are people who work on the matroska document have an opinion so I don\u0027t know if any of the remote participants or anyone else in the room is is has strong opinions no it\u0027s stupid we can\u0027t hear you Steve are you muted we can\u0027t hear deep Steve we don\u0027t hear you since he\u0027s one of our presenters it seems important to have this work [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:38",
    "text": "well why don\u0027t we move on while he\u0027s trying to get his AV setup well let\u0027s see if Steve has a comment when he gets this thing working from my point of view there\u0027s only one missing part now we try again with Steve can you hear me now okay so I was just saying there\u0027s actually a part about the codec mapping in the metros representation we are planning to do a separate document with all the codec mappings that are known and need to be documented I assume other codecs in the future might add their own mapping and it will probably not go in the natural schedule commentation and then in their own documentation so I think it makes sense that a codec even if it\u0027s documented in Matroska has it own mapping definition we just need to make sure it doesn\u0027t collide and have issues in compatibilities with them maybe you wonder if everyone is done if it\u0027s done before the metrascan one it can be merged into the Matroska one or if we know already there\u0027s going to be one well defined for everyone I just put in the nitrous car documentation for F everyone refer to that document traveling\u0027s and I think we want to be we don\u0027t want to have more than one place that normatively defines how something works what are you in my opinion it\u0027s better that codex do their own mapping because they know better the codec and people using that codec will actually want to know the mapping when they use it so and plus we\u0027re not going to update or make yeah make your obsolete might risk a document just for adding one codec because there are so many so in my opinion is better to have codex do their own we\u0027re going to have one for well-known codex there are actually in the world and need to have known mapping documented and will unlikely have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:38",
    "text": "document from official other standard bodies so that\u0027s why we need that document otherwise much were scared it\u0027s not very usable but I think for the case of M F everyone where Matroska will be documenting is better to have it in that document I suggest that in the matroska codec mapping we other line about if everyone saying but if everyone mapping is defining the f everyone spec so we don\u0027t write again the same thing and we link and we say that where is the mapping yes all right you got that for the notes well yes in my opinion all right thank you so about a verse specification of FF v1 we describes of a complete bit stream up to the pixel and the four unique pixel decoding per pixel and about the decoding of the pixel we have already will not described in plain English and we have the algorithm it is quite we have how it is built how the encoding was built but we don\u0027t have it yet in select description so in my opinion it will be good to add an additional paragraphs about a select description of the pixel decoding and from my point of view it it is an IVA miss the only missing part just a question here I mean if you have both the C and the English are you defining one as normative the other is informative because obviously anytime you have two strippers or something they can disagree so which one is going to be canonical I think it in my opinion of a see light description will be the reference and the English text will be a informative part but it is to be decided and on the mailing list but yes when we need to to make it explicit what is informative and what is our specification okay the current implementation of fev1 our ffmpeg there is which is the currently where I found encoder decoder Lib AV as it\u0027s it\u0027s an odd coder and decoder but be careful it is a fork as it is a photo of ffmpeg it contains the same pegs as ffmpeg and we have another "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:39",
    "text": "decoder in median fool based on the specification and it is a completely different implementation we have some requests about ffv one version for so with a new column and without any files in the while and we should add which we should support more pixel formats and add more native metadata for example there is no color description transfer characteristics and so on we need to currently we rely on that container for example Matroska but it will be good that if everyone can transport its own metadata and we may add some optimization of the AL going algorithm for F everyone before and all of this need to be discussed on the millions permanent we standardize FF v 1 0 1 and 3 files on the world and after that we are in parallel we need to define before with missing compare pixel formats do you have some questions Charlie I was worried about you vent by optimization of the algorithm there actually be changing the bits in the file or just this and maybe we advise some possibility to to have a better compression with some teeny change in the algorithm oh ok we respect my optimize the you know the implementations that wouldn\u0027t need to be no no this is not optimal of the on disease optimization and having some optimization in the al-qaeda but we need to change the bit stream bank that\u0027s maybe maybe I said all right so I have a question how many people have read this draft there is a device we did a sleeping and me making it Amira what the in chef snakes watch is free and wait up yes to we\u0027re talkin L so this is something that would benefit from discussion perhaps later on in the meeting that I think for the documents "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:39",
    "text": "that do exist we definitely need more reviewers I think looking at looking at these because I know there are discussions thread discussion threads that have kind of come to a standstill where you know it\u0027s it\u0027s a worthwhile and interesting discussion but my consensus isn\u0027t reached on the mailing list and you know I think you know in Cades it\u0027s you know one possibly a matter of people having tons of work to do and being overwhelmed and you know and everything like that but you know I don\u0027t know what the answer to that but that\u0027s a good despite the name of the standards group we don\u0027t discriminate this has been nature this document I don\u0027t like that\u0027s gonna be pulling teeth to get lots of reviews there\u0027s two things you can do one is pegged volunteers by name so you know get people people who haven\u0027t read it ask if they will actually you know put their name forward that they will review this within a certain time period and sometimes it\u0027s not the way it\u0027s intended to be done but sometimes we find that working group last calls will flush out some reviews that you might not have gotten otherwise yeah and this is a it was sorry when you say a volunteer review this is something different than like the formal review process right this is just read the draft to make comments right we\u0027re not formal about much anything thank you I I don\u0027t I guess when you say the formal review process you\u0027re talking about IETF last call and ESG reviews know yeah I\u0027m packed by different than that which is part of my ETFs call alright are there any other questions for Jerome okay thank you Steve next to you are you there hello we\u0027re home again so next topic is Matroska so which video container I [Music] don\u0027t know if can you hear me yes yes we can hear you next switch to the next slide yeah it may be helpful if you explicitly say that Nostradamus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:40",
    "text": "so it starting to date is wrong it\u0027s not 2012 but 2002 so about 15 years are good to do or my goal was to do live TV capture with the hardware that was available at this time so was not very good with the existing containers when you have lost frames and stuff like that so I worked on a project that already existed to to do that which was call mcf and it was formed because we had differences on how to do things especially about eb ml so the idea was to have something what the technology is borrowed from still the existing avi the EBI marriage inspired from XML and all the idea that the semantics can do a lot for you compared to storing everything in the file so them from the Semantic Web that was emerging at the time so now the major use of Matroska is with h.264 and h.265 you can find that basically any player now any TV that\u0027s out that\u0027s a smart TV can play Matroska with these codecs Windows 10 has built-in support now the right players I\u0027ve had that for many years as well all the offense was players can play that class vp8 vp9 that\u0027s mostly from Google and YouTube but it\u0027s also use I think by Netflix it\u0027s used by Nintendo I think as well all in much work as well for audio you have racist way that very common DTS obviously is obvious which was added recently with some changes or additions needed in the format it\u0027s used so by Google with YouTube but Mozilla which supported weapon from the very beginning so Adam is basically Matroska with some features removed and using the p8 and vp9 as a codec and Vorbis or oprah\u0027s audio recent additions that added much was during the standardization process as 360 videos "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:44",
    "text": "which it\u0027s not supported by Google because they used on YouTube and JavaScript they have it in the web inspect and the HDR meter that I will switch to the next slide the next slide yeah we have a question from the web so Mosin addy you have a question about WebM there seems to be a pretty large usage of Matroska probably that I would guess the dominant usage of matroska outside of maybe no unsavory activities yeah so is there what is the plan for documenting WebM is will it ever be part of this specification or it will always be something separate and how will they evolve together over time because that seems to me like a pretty confusing management problem yes so WebM is basically if you look at their web M specifications on the WebM website is basically the metrascan specification on our website but with elements removed it uses the same formatting most of the text is the same it\u0027s really the same specifications and WebM doesn\u0027t have anything that\u0027s not in Matroska and everything that\u0027s defining Matroska applies to weapon so basically what we are doing will also include WebM we actually and in each element that we define in the specification we tell if it\u0027s supported by WebM or not but then if it\u0027s supported by WebM there\u0027s no difference than how it applies to metro states reading the same format okay just seems a little strange that you know ITF would have a document that goes through all the normative parts of matroska but then the dominant use of it there\u0027s not a ITF document for the normative use of it I wish Google will help us work on this specification as well some of Google people and Mozilla as well are in the mailing list and helping a little but not really working on the determine documentation but that\u0027s also because what I mean is just a subset of matroska so there\u0027s really no difference finished moot when a famous coaster has no staff that\u0027s not relevant to web usage or at least they think I\u0027ve always thought that but almost anything that\u0027s in much worse cache will be loaded and little by "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:46",
    "text": "little actually when web and starting they only had a very small subset of what\u0027s in matroska and little by little little they added stuff they already that always already in Matroska because they realized they actually need it so maybe as time goes by they will add more and more stuff in where then that\u0027s already metrascan yeah and I think that\u0027s part of the problems it makes it even more confusing rather than helpful because then you have you know two different version numbers and and no change control over which one which one is really authoritative or not it\u0027s actually we could see if we can make a separate documentation for WebM that says but basically that\u0027s already in the web and web site they tell you we use this and that element from metros camera plus this ones for example encryption to have better specifications for encryption that we might take from there but yeah basically that\u0027s how WebM worked so far without I think for them their website is the official specification and is based on the Matroska specification so have we talked to anyone from Google to ask them what their opinion is on this issue not the weapon team in particular there and as that lien two or three people from Google that from time to time talk on the sailor mailing list but not specifically give me about webinar madness in this working group we are mostly working on Matroska because we we have no power on WebM and in that case we can only do something informative in the specification about when them saying which item from matroska is used in weapon if we can the contact we have with Google is not very often and they can decide in military to add some item we we try to follow WebM and not to be incompatible with WebM but we cannot say it will be compatible forever because we have no power on that so it is an informative and matroska is what we are working on now it sounds like maybe it\u0027s worthwhile at least talking them to see what what their opinion is they might be interested in having a more formal venue to standardize their their subset of Matroska anyway so I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s appropriate for this working group or not but it seems harmless at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:46",
    "text": "least get their opinion yeah I agree so on this next slide it\u0027s mostly about where you can find what\u0027s being done right now so the mailing list then best to github repositories one for eb ml which is the underlying binary format for matroska which can be used for other things than metrascan and the specification is done that way it\u0027s not tied to my tour schedule and one is more for Matroska stuff there\u0027s one main document for right now that specified all the metrascan things it\u0027s so on both repositories the specifications are written in markdown format then it generates an XML file that generates the ITF documents anyone can do that on the computer and there\u0027s also in the microscale repositories the websites like a shadow version of the website that\u0027s the official specification for now is also generating but we might remove that because like right now the ITF documents will take too much from the website and inform our way and we want to clean that up so we\u0027re probably going to drop that and there\u0027s also an XML file that\u0027s defined in the Metro scale documentation that defines all the elements PML elements finally the format with the documentation and that file is actually news to generate a big part of the documentation from Matroska that\u0027s also used to generate code at least two libraries maybe more we try to encourage people because that will be probably the formative document for how you interpret natural scan this way we don\u0027t have even the text in the documentation has to match that document and like I said it oh there\u0027s also a field for a chairman that tells is it in webbing or is it not even that\u0027s as the current web and specifications are because like we said they can add elements at any time when they add new things I think they did it in the past whatever so we added that you might want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:47",
    "text": "to add it to the microscopes and we do it we wish it would be more open because sometimes the different things their own way and when we look at it we would have done it a bit different but that\u0027s too late because it\u0027s owned by them but like we said we don\u0027t have any control of that even though we work together it\u0027s usually in one way no questions we can go to the next slide I have a question so if if the set of elements that are included in WebM is expected to change more frequently than the Matroska specification itself perhaps that\u0027s something that shouldn\u0027t be in the RFC but it could be maybe added in an Diana register here or something like that that we could update more easily yes maybe right now it\u0027s a flag on each element that tells if it\u0027s wear them or not we could think of a way to have a separate document that says we have basically which element [Music] yeah I guess we can do that for now it was also done that way because it was used to generate the website in metros Karen dot born that has a table with all the elements and if it\u0027s supporting the Russian one two three and D Beck\u0027s vertically like so so as extensions too much what are they up there on that there are natural scab that they use metros as well and also weapon so we at the table that\u0027s easy to read when you mention white supportive but probably for the ATF document we don\u0027t need that at all so you have to do that right so the milestones we already discussed that there\u0027s the current one in April and July San April we publish the document for ibn el this document is actually quite good it\u0027s in good shape it\u0027s understandable and covers most of the stuff we want then in July we publish mattress v3 specification other documents probably still need a bit of work like I said it was boring too much from an informal website and we want to clean that up and the plan is to have in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:47",
    "text": "September mattress Callie for v3 is basically files during the wild for 10 years maybe before is more stuff has been asked it recently and we\u0027ll talk about later and maybe there will be a v5 with all the recent additions and things that might be needed to add in future matroska text so the document for IBM L is close to final in my opinion you have the same question as usual I have no idea how many people read it probably the same as four if everyone at least some people from Google and Mozilla as well I know that I don\u0027t know how many people the so in the github repositories which we try to also match with whatever is discussed on the cellular mailing list there\u0027s currently zero to flow request everything that\u0027s been proposed and to be merged that\u0027s currently for issues or to text clarifications on how and what you do with the jam data or invalid data how it\u0027s supposed to be interpreting we have to clarify that there\u0027s also a proposal to have version zero for a document maybe a document that means it\u0027s not in usable state if it\u0027s Russian zero you cannot expect the semantics to be stable so that\u0027s something we probably want to add a BB ml definition and one is to add maybe in that document maybe in an extra document how to define an EB ml like IBM L data but in the readable form so probably something that resembles ml so I don\u0027t know if it could be that document or another and the other thing I would like to do before calling it very final is to have a lot of people read it and make sure we understand it\u0027s understandable my most people because for us who have been working and it\u0027s for so long everything makes sense but for a new corner I I\u0027ve been Campbell adding XE BML seems like a substantial scope increase then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:47",
    "text": "so I would suggest the working group think very hard if they want about whether they want to add that bit of scoped this working group at least right now the other comment I had actually is I\u0027ve actually scanned this one and now I see scan is like you know scan of the operative word and I think one thing that probably should be clarified in it probably in the abstract introduction is why we\u0027re doing this because when we take a yet another file format document data format document to the IETF last call and the iesg that\u0027s going to be a lot of why and the fact there\u0027s a dependency for matroyshka and such is an important thing to make sure people understand okay so now that\u0027s that should only take a sentence or two now there are five hoping issues I wouldn\u0027t call that an open issue it\u0027s more of a more of a warning now we are in the github try to classify all the issues because when my trust cares a lot and that\u0027s one of the category is actually clarifications and that would be one of them why do we have it yeah and why is it needed to have a standard as well and it would be a category issue for me but a little finer point I\u0027m at getting the IETF to accept yet another general-purpose data encoding format will be hard getting them to accept one that we are publishing for our very specific purposes it\u0027s considerably easier yeah understand them yeah because I mean for a long time I hope that BB ml will be widely used for a lot of things and it didn\u0027t turn out that way yeah if we propose something that\u0027s actually general-purpose format either we want to have a lot of people or make sure it\u0027s correct and a lot of people use it or say well it\u0027s defined for that scope you may use it for something else but basically it\u0027s really for metrascan derivate harmonics in your introduction you mentioned various other communities such as abetters reusing matroyshka I mentioned intend oh and I think somebody else has any attempt to reach out to those people to see what they think about this Saturday session where for example Nintendo is because the they actually use WebM so they actually use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:48",
    "text": "much worse castings that was a few years ago I don\u0027t know if they switch to something else now but at the time for example anything that was coming from YouTube was not in h.264 but only in a weapon on Nintendo that\u0027s it on defects it\u0027s different because but that was like we had 10 years ago I think they decided that needed their own file format and they went with Matroska and I did a few extensions that they have documented but I don\u0027t even know if the week still exists anymore or if they actually do maintained and format of their switch to something else and I don\u0027t know who to contact there yeah so to go back to the the eBay ml document um are there any people who are willing to to step up and and put out their name as someone who will review this document um so I\u0027ll go ahead and start on but I\u0027m I\u0027m one of the working group chairs so I probably have to do it but I\u0027ve looked at this once before and had a bunch of comments and so I\u0027ll take a look at it again but anyone else in the working group all right Jerome is put forth his name I guess we could also another request investors well sorry so I think I think we should also send out a request on the mailing list as well to get people to depend on people to commit to reviewing the e BM BM l document so in case anybody who\u0027s participating remotely needs some time to think about it before throwing their hat in the ring yeah we can do that as well but oh okay that\u0027s alright well thank you Jerome the re done with my transcript sorry no this is one more slide I okay to be two or three which is the where we get with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:49",
    "text": "metrascan so as a five video multimedia file format it\u0027s actually huge task to standardize because there\u0027s currently 243 EB ml elements so that\u0027s you know xml that would be a tag name so there\u0027s 250 43 43 of them are marked as deprecated but we still need documented for old files a lot of elements depend on the other at least their parent also sometimes their interactions between parts of the file so that\u0027s also tricky to to document you cannot just define that element means that sometimes it in reference to something else so I in terms of what\u0027s currently in the pipeline so there\u0027s seven pending requests on the github three text classifications most of them on chapters less one on codec mapping in one on font basically be more precise how to use these there are three codec definitions which are currently the main document so every codec that we know has codec mapping with the name how to interpret the data in the codec private and the blocks and there\u0027s one request with text formatting and then the issues so it\u0027s moving target I cleaned a lot recently but there we keep adding more so as last night testing this 22 issues so eight are texts clarifications basically the format if text me which needs to be improved so tells on which part and why format additions it\u0027s for ideas that people have for future things in Matroska compared to what exists now seems to and so that will be something like v4 v5 version of matroska there are three text formatting and five codec definitions which needs some work that\u0027s probably more but that\u0027s because that\u0027s what people reviewed the documents so I think we can go on the next line because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:49",
    "text": "it\u0027s more refinement of more I just said actually no okay so I don\u0027t know maybe you can go back and people have questions and yeah so how many of these issues are are something where we basically understand the alternatives and just need to make a decision or how many of these are our issues where some further work is needed well first and use the name issues because that word in github they\u0027re not actual issues like blocking or whatever it\u0027s more mostly discussions or maybe you should do this this way or that which can also be done the mailing list sometimes really usually it\u0027s things that still need discussion until you reach a consensus like really can tell which ones are close to be done in which one are still up in the air yeah okay thank you so next unless you have questions we can you know - next slide so what we are going to do from now one of the tasks that\u0027s been working it\u0027s on the conformance test files because with the specifications we need something to verify that the files are correct or not so there\u0027s also a tool to verify that it\u0027s not exactly welcome for the set of workgroup but that\u0027s something we work in parallel with the same people because it makes sense especially since the original goal of these specifications were people working on archives it\u0027s important for them to make sure what they are going to store for decades is actually correct and usable in a very long time so they need to make sure everything is perfect then there\u0027s the this proposal that\u0027s been discussed on the Middle East and I would like to do is to split the current specification in three documents one with the matroska elements like the core specification of the format and to separates one for the Kodak mapping and as we discussed in an ideal world there will be a document for each codec and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:51",
    "text": "each codec workgroup will define their own my opinion Matroska but it\u0027s unlikely to happens so we need to do that work at least four major codecs but on the other end it\u0027s a moving target and it\u0027s also a lot of work I would prefer that such separate documents so we can with one is not blocking the other and it\u0027s the same for tags there\u0027s a lot of tags that you can have custom tiles and we have a list of official tags that\u0027s better for people to use so tags are metadata you can give the title to movie or specify the some camera stuff for chapter and the movie anything you can think of so again that\u0027s a lot of work and I wouldn\u0027t want the main document for the specification to be blocked by some other issues important well it\u0027s important but like different issues there\u0027s one document can be done while the other speaking of being worked on and then there\u0027s to work on the wording and the cleaning and the specification to remove all the Parden that come from the website that was informal or even Dizon shouldn\u0027t be at all in the specification so that\u0027s a lot of work to be done there questions so just a question for the rest of the working group car are people comfortable with these proposed subdivisions or just anybody have any comments on that uh Jonathan likes the structure you\u0027ve described through the codec registrations feels a lot like the way we do RTP payload format switcher that the IDF is pretty comfortable with and basically what our TP was originally written they wrote one document which is a separate document published simultaneously with the payload formats for a bunch of the existing things that we\u0027re using and then as new pillows have been defined over the years I\u0027ve just been new things added I mean the one question I will have is how is the this line is pretty is um Ayana going to take over the registration database for this is that the idea or is it still going to be under the control of some other matroyshka based organization and then if it\u0027s I Anna what is the registration policy way to be the spatial acquired or something stricter we haven\u0027t talked about that yet especially with IANA but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:54",
    "text": "that\u0027s two things does the existing formats especially and it\u0027s not exist just now exist in terms of specification but in terms of people have found with this so we need to document that and then for new formats like if everyone and in the future then I think it\u0027s better yeah if it\u0027s done in a separate document and probably goes Rihanna other process to define it that\u0027s also the idea of Metro Scott\u0027s completely independent from what you store inside is the format and the rest of what\u0027s in the codec and also the tags the file can be used even with if you know absolutely nothing about this so that\u0027s why also it\u0027s important to have separate stuff and so it would make sense that yes in the future it\u0027s a different working group and don\u0027t completely in a different way and that\u0027s also part of what we need to put in the metrascan special specifications is exactly what you need to do when you need to define a codec mapping or tag so yeah I don\u0027t know exactly how it works with all the Janna stuff but that\u0027s probably something we have to work on that\u0027s one of the issues or tasks we have so yeah we\u0027re going to work on that and probably towards with relying on separate process now so I think I can point you at a couple of documents that define Ayana registries if you want some examples to work from No so I don\u0027t know if you could hear that Steve most question was for the notes um we\u0027re gonna investigate doing this through IANA so I talked earlier about things that might go might be added to metrascan now on the future so that\u0027s document where IT talked about that XML so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:55",
    "text": "talk about that anymore there\u0027s a different kind of defining colors when they study match was guy especially for raw video so it\u0027s called lute blue cap table it seems to be something that\u0027s used in archiving and so that\u0027s a way of defining things we don\u0027t have in Matroska so we probably won\u0027t you have it then there\u0027s work on the encryption it\u0027s used in WebM but and they use the elements that were defined originally for that but originally it was defined with not much knowledge on in knowledge and encryption there\u0027s a lot of stuff that can probably remove so that\u0027s more elements to d3 Kate there\u0027s one task but something to add more language support there\u0027s a way to tell this audio track or this video that audio or subtitle track is in that language but the way it\u0027s done is using the eyes or something format that doesn\u0027t cover all languages so we want to have one tag that\u0027s also cover all the languages defined in RFC 5646 so that\u0027s another thing we need to add there\u0027s the new codec ID prefix basically every codec right now for example and hood your codecs already has to start with a underscore we do the underscore subtitle s underscore we need to add more for the track types that exist exist in Matroska that\u0027s what needs to be done and type timecode track that\u0027s also something important for archiving in people they use the tankards from various sources and write nets not handle at all in mattress casts we need to define so probably some kind of codec mapping and that would be new codec so it could be done via Ayana we have doing things and we\u0027ll see if the by adding all this stuff we need to define a new metric aversion or it can be just version 4 or if it\u0027s version 5 so that\u0027s some of the things that need to be added there might be some more people and to add in the coming future "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:56",
    "text": "and that\u0027s the next line so if you ask question all right there is known at the mic so okay yeah I think I was a bit long anyway I think we\u0027re over at time already all right thank you Steve so the next presentation is just very briefly an overview of the work that was done on flack in June 2017 you know in June of this year a number of people had been working on getting a draft of the flack documentation into into the cellar repository earth and any rate so andrew is going to just briefly tell us a little bit more about that Andrew oh there we go [Music] you have the floor Andrew okay cool I\u0027m sorry it doesn\u0027t seem like it\u0027s a transmitting video but audios working so I\u0027ll just roll with that yes as that rejection said this will be short and sweet since the work on the making the standardization of wack the free lossless audio codec just began so I guess we can go to the next slide so the process started in May of 2017 and most of the work was done then in June so this slide pretty much summarizes were the bulk of the work that has been done to date has been focused and a majority that really has just been to create a semantically identical translation of the existing specifications that are on the website right now and to translate those into markdown the reason being for this that the approach is being taken with this that is similar to the other standardization processes that were just discussed where the markdown is then used to generate XML and the HTML text documents that become the RFC so that is a kind of getting that translated and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:58",
    "text": "making sure that it is semantically identical with no errors in the translation and then adapting the make file tool to generate those derivatives is where most work has been done then some work has been done to correct some minor errors that were found during that translation process from the original document such as typos they were through broken links or links that were pointing towards updated sources that were then fixed or rerouted to a archive like an archived copy of what those links were originally linking to and yes this is this is where most of the time has been spent I guess we can move to the next slide and then this is once that process of translation was done and it had been read over a few times and checked for any errors in that process changes have started being made to the document itself so some examples are there has started to be some clarification of the encoding type to make it a little bit more of specific than what is in the original specification as it exists now on the website some minor changes have been made to decrease ambiguity such as showing calculations where the sum of the numbers used in the specification come from that are absent in the original specification and then rewording to make it more conform with the RFC format in terms of wording and what the words mean with the specific meanings there have been some changes that have come through Lac dev deflective lists that have been incorporated as well those also kind of ate all more into the category of decreasing ambiguity so some of the some of the discussions that have been on fact because has been a little bit we\u0027ve been keeping so far black dev lists kind of appraised at the same level that the seller list is and there\u0027s been some response there and some of those have spurred some things that some of the collective Oliver people who have used it and thought had other suggestions for improving clarity have made those changes so far there has not been a ton of communication but it does seem that there is kind of a good basis to start with right now there are five issues open and they are kind of all revolving around still the nitty-gritty of making sure that all the things work with the translation into the derivative files there\u0027s some issues with internal links and anchors that are being worked on and then the rest are also just kind of suggestions for clarity such as the inclusion of the the information that would be in the metadata block in black which is actually not contained in the specification that\u0027s on the black "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:58",
    "text": "website currently it\u0027s linked out to the Vorbis comment specification and so suggestions and issues on the github right now about including those as part of this transportation and in terms of work that\u0027s been done so far that is basically it so this is short and sweet I think if we go to the next slide is just for questions but hopefully this is a good chance to for some comments or talk about this well so my question is chair is is is do you have everything that you need to complete this process or is there are other things you need from the working group I mean myself personally who I have I liked that comment earlier about being an academic not a coder I\u0027m a librarian not a coder so I\u0027ve been involved in the process with helping kind of steward the documents I know that there\u0027s some of the people who are also have been involved in the process are participants in this meeting right now so I don\u0027t know if they\u0027ll be able to speak to that I think that ultimately there it would be good if there was more more communication out of kind of a you know morphs right now there\u0027s not actually a person kind of spearheading the effort and they\u0027ll probably be helpful if there was more communication with the lac development list right now the work that is being done does exist not in an institutional repository it just exists in a repository that\u0027s on my github account which seems like there would probably be a more authority place for the work to be going on being undertaken ultimately might be ideal I don\u0027t there\u0027s anybody else has comments yeah I don\u0027t know if how actually setting up a specific working group github works but I can certainly ask around and see if we can get something that looks more official sorry this is one of the last milestones for the working group I think it\u0027s December of 2017 so this is really just to give just to give everyone in the room and you know attending remotely an idea of of why that document is currently you know in their inner groups website and what\u0027s been going on with that I Jonathan expect question you at this point you from your description it sounds like you don\u0027t anticipate needing to change the flat bit stream at all you\u0027re just clarifying the specification and you expect to maintain compatibility with files in the world so far the work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:00",
    "text": "that\u0027s been done has just been focused on that I know that several months ago when there was some discussion about work on the black standardization on the seller list serve some people who seem to have been had a significant experience with using black did seem to express some interest in working on the kind of more technical end of that I there hasn\u0027t been that much involvement on that yet but I think it\u0027s readily possible that some of those people would be involved or the people involved in black development got involved okay are there any additional questions for inter unofficial okay thank you very much Andrew thank you I think next on the agenda they just kind of wanted to see if there needed to be any discussion about what the next steps were for the documents that are in the pipeline and you\u0027re coordinating future work it seems to me that what needs to be done for most of the documents is finding more viewers trapped you know actively seeking out specific individuals to do the reviews and in addition to you know people who have been doing the work already in the in the working group so I don\u0027t know if anybody has any thoughts or any outstanding questions regarding any of the presentations I know we were going a little bit over our agenda allotted agenda time but we do have until twelve o\u0027clock I think technically so this has been just going back and looking at milestones and up from them and I want to recap my understanding I gather that ffv one one two three the information the the documented current stuff and the EB ml are both pretty close to ready in the author\u0027s opinions did I understand that correctly is that what the chairs understand yeah that was my understanding also okay and that uh matreshka has more work and then the flag stuff is kinda early so I just want to make sure I understand correctly so yep I think that\u0027s accurate okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:06",
    "text": "[Music] mostly that won\u0027t happen okay so if there aren\u0027t any any additional questions about that I knew Jimmy Jones is doing research the area audio-visual codecs and sorry I\u0027m sorry that\u0027s kind of closed on the next steps first I thought you had more to say maybe so okay next steps are if I understand it correctly we\u0027re just solicit reviews on those two things that are almost done and assuming nothing blows up in a small number of weeks of soliciting reviews I\u0027ll go to ask oh uh I think that\u0027s about that that\u0027s my understanding okay that that would be the plan and then the working group probably over the next few weeks is gonna concentrate on getting those things done even though we know youth other things need work right okay yeah because I think the FFP one document for zero one and three it was ready for a working group last ologist I think you know could benefit from more for more review you know on the same thing for for EB ml and so I think perhaps that\u0027s yeah I mean that I guess that\u0027s something that that we should actively or I can not to assign work to anybody else I can try and pursue additional reviewers yeah I mean I think it\u0027s an important question for for EB ml at least whether we decide to add xev ml because that seems like something that would require a bit more work than could possibly be done in the next couple of weeks I would argue that if you do decide to do that and make it a separate milestone so don\u0027t block the EB amount unless people really think they should otherwise don\u0027t block EB MLL mixing beyond ppl and you know I\u0027m willing to hear arguments that shouldn\u0027t block but it\u0027s not obvious to me why it would alright any document authors have opinions on that or Steve Lum says I agree okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:25",
    "text": "so if there aren\u0027t any additional questions what\u0027s going to a presentation by Jimmy Jones we as he commented earlier is an academic so Jimmy are you there okay can you hear me okay oh yeah you\u0027re empty changed my view here so I can see the slides you can still hear me and see me okay great so first off thank you all for having me I\u0027ll move through this kind of briskly cuz I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s any more business that you all have to do thank you for having me a special thank you to Tessa for putting me on the agenda and for answering various and sundry tech issues so thank you should I just say next slide when it\u0027s time for them to be advanced okay yeah so please go to the next slide so introduction to me I know some of you a little bit from some my past work I am a doctoral student at the University of Illinois in urbana-champaign our library Information Sciences Department and the United States I\u0027m working on my doctoral dissertation and I\u0027m embarking on the research phase finally of the dissertation work and one of the things that I want to do but this work is do qualitative analyses of two examples of standards development and their implementation so I\u0027m I\u0027m currently embarking on the data gathering that\u0027s going to involve interviews with at least some of you I hope I\u0027m over the next year probably the earliest that would start will be in September and then I plan to actually write the dissertation the following year with the hope that it will be deposited in two years so we will see what actually plays out but that\u0027s the plan next slide please so I worked on the Library of Congress\u0027s mxf jpeg2000 standard for three years before I came here to be a doctoral student what we were calling ASO seven uses mxf and jpeg2000 and it was and is being developed with considerable input from the American television broadcast community mostly through the form of the a MWA the advanced media floo association so the development and implementation of that standard is one of the two standards that I want to look at next slide please and then your standard the one that we\u0027re talking about tonight that you\u0027ve been working on diligently over the past "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:25",
    "text": "few years the seller standard and this is where where you come in where we talk about the Matroska and FFP one and FLAC work next slide please so I\u0027ve two research questions one and in in no particular order the first one is the question of how how did the group\u0027s the the seller group you guys and the fangy group what are the influence and kind of power dynamics between the people in the groups as you all do your work to create the standards and how you are negotiating issues of and questions of what quality means and what sustainability means in the moving image preservation realm next slide so following from that some kinds of concepts that I\u0027ll be exploring in the interview phase is how do these groups have the members within the group\u0027s negotiate the definitions of quality are the different ideas of quality different between people who come from a strict kind of engineering background and people who come from say in archives and library background you know how do we all get on the same page do we start off on the same page do we have to you know how do we communicate these ideas with each other is there any disparity to begin with how do the groups assign leaders how do people kind of rise up as leaders in the different kinds of work that you\u0027re doing you know and it or is it completely you know loose Confederacy and in and no one\u0027s really considered a leader you know these are these are all questions that I want to tease out in terms of how how the groups do their work to develop the standards next slide and then the the second kind of parallel research question you know we want to look at how these things are developed but then I also want to look at how these standards are implemented in the preservation community\u0027s work so next slide so the concepts that I want to look at here with inner with interviewing people is what kind of factors inform preservation professionals decisions of which standards to use or not to use in their video digitization work you know infrastructure kinds of questions staffing factors cost etc in some cases this might be kind of ethical decisions you know we want my institution wants to align ourselves consciously align ourselves with the open-source community and not with any kind of industry community like Apple or something like that you know it might not just be the kind of dollars and cents decisions it might be more you know ethical perspectives you know or moral "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:27",
    "text": "perspectives however you want to say that and do the standards that are being produced by these groups or similar standards do they need to be adapted for local practice at these different institutions or do they work you know right out of the box how active are the users of the standards which may not always be the same people as the designers of the standards how active are they in helping these standards to change and mature over time next slide please so I would like to in order to to gather data and I know that you\u0027ve probably seen my calls for participation on the AMIA listserv and I\u0027m your seller listserv I want to do interviews with standards develop developers and/or implementers again they may not all be the same populations likely a lot of this stuff is going to play out over Skype but I do plan to be at the AMIA conference in New Orleans later this year I think it\u0027s in November so we can do in-person interviews for those participants who are attending that conference and are able to do an in-person interview otherwise Skype will probably work just fine I\u0027m also planning site visits and I\u0027ve been talking with people at these places so far at Indiana University who I know uses or and/or is planning to use ffv one in coatings with Matroska and I think they may also be working with avi containers on the the mass digitization they\u0027re doing there digitizing thousands of hours of content probably as we speak and the folks at the Library of Congress\u0027s Culpepper facility south of Washington DC so some of the people who have been very vocal in the development of the fangy specification that\u0027s the mxf jpeg2000 specification and also are implementing it for their use so so far those are the two sites that I want to to visit and talk with I\u0027m happy to hear ideas about more sites who might be using something very similar to what seller is doing or what faggios has produced but I also want to look at and you kind of a close read of the documentation surrounding to work so the standards development documents and drafts like you have on the seller site meeting minutes best practice documents in the case of people who are implementing listserv communications you know all the places where people meetings like this in-person meetings all places where the people are synchronously or asynchronously working on on doing the work with each other next slide please so in closing just a few caveats I\u0027m not intending this work to be a discussion of which standard is better or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:29",
    "text": "determination of which standard development group is better or does their work better this is not coming from a kind of positivist perspective where I am determining which one which one wins or which one is better I am instead I\u0027m actually just trying to look at how the groups operates and how the standards are being developed how people communicate with each other again how we you know negotiate what quality means what sustainability means what archive ability means you know these kinds of concepts and then how the standards and why the standards are are or are not implemented and I know that the seller standard of course is being worked on as we speak but if there are similar kinds of combinations of matroska and FFT one as in Indiana University\u0027s work you know why would they choose that over the faggy spec you know why would they choose that over just digitizing uncompressed with an avi container bla bla bla again this is not to for me to determine who\u0027s right who\u0027s wrong who\u0027s better who\u0027s not that that\u0027s not the tenor of my work my work is more to explore and kind of put a lens up a little bit to how we do what we do and why next slide which I think might be the last slide so if you would like to participate in my work if we have not already talked with each other please contact me I\u0027m looking forward to learning more about the work that you\u0027re doing and and working with you on this research I know I\u0027ve already talked with several of you and you\u0027ve already agreed graciously to be interview subjects I\u0027m happy to anonymize if that is something that you it\u0027s important that you not have your name on this work I\u0027m happy to work with you on that and again thank you for letting me observe the meeting if you have any questions about the work I\u0027m I\u0027m here happy to take them thank you very much Jimmy okay and if are there any additional questions for Jimmy or for any of the other presenters I\u0027m sensing that\u0027s a no okay yeah I feel like these collective desire to kind of move on to the Richland you can turn me off Spanish we need to thank you again okay well thank you very much especially to the jabbers jabbers crying and and our note-taker and did everybody get a chance to slang "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:33",
    "text": "with blue sheets okay great all right I think it thank you very much so I\u0027m just happy didn\u0027t flashing a whole laptop oh I understand it as I said I felt in the horn but basically she was saying echo and so that there\u0027s people who love presentations but perhaps there\u0027s no confusion yeah I I honestly have no idea how that works okay so there may be something that they\u0027re supposed to do in the deco to grow up slides but I don\u0027t know what that is unlike stone "
  }
]