[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:30",
    "text": "hi guys it\u0027s time to start can someone close the door thank you so let\u0027s Tata so this is the best session in Montreal so this week for the first time we\u0027ll have two sessions so one today and there will be one very late on Thursday and fortunately so we\u0027ll start with our our statues of LG not well pleased with it if you are not aware about it but it says that whatever you are saying you are contributing to or to be a part of your participation blue sheets are circulating I think so little they are you still okay to take the minutes thank you okay so let\u0027s start to your status so since last time we have a three new RFC\u0027s we have two documents that are still in an RFC a little cute but still awaiting due to our to mr. F so this year Aquino very still awaiting for the turnaround caps from idea I think and the ETP and profits advertisement is waiting for me Intel intercepted forwarding an hour sang which is a I think and Martin review if the sadness for warning yes and inter subnet the forwarding is recursively waiting on Martin and I\u0027m waiting bound procedures and one of your drafts Ali IgM LP or IGMP AIG NP yeah because of town work down well dive issue but since I\u0027ve waited too long we have decided to process one of them so we have net for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:31",
    "text": "documents at all and on left in review or underarm is G review we have a lot of documents that AHA and the shepherd review fortunately we have some help some home over people so when proceed your updates I think she\u0027s a writer isn\u0027t going so it should should happen sooner NS h bgp control pain i don\u0027t know if we have adrian in the home or not there is still a small update to do in the document before moving moving forum do you want to do something I said eventually the VPLS multi had me Draft has just been updated so I\u0027m ready back forward now we have a problem with the bestsellers changing draft so I started the Shepherd with you we\u0027ve seen that document is really really far from being ready to be published because it is targeted to Bastogne attract an area there is no possibility to make it stand out as it\u0027s done today and this is a huge work to make it I will not say readable but be read evil to be a beast on the track and we have portal working good to know if there is still some support to help proceeding with this document there is no objection but we don\u0027t have any people that really want to add progressing and the authors also are not responding any more on this one so our proposal is to have to this document that we would like also to know maybe formatting if there is an issue probably with another wardrobe like SFC though we don\u0027t know yeah that\u0027s the one who talks about XMPP and so on exactly okay it\u0027s a complex one so Martin speaking we already had problems with this document when I was chair yes and so that dates so you don\u0027t make you can polarize the document is if it\u0027s not ready and if no one has the resources to I\u0027m not allowed to update it and put it in shape so you\u0027re doing the right thing in asking the question and I\u0027m not aware of any dependency we are not so you don\u0027t have to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:37",
    "text": "anything you maybe somebody will come in three months and we don\u0027t have the resources but in the meantime you can give it here and let it time okay so we are still a bunch of documents that are all ready for working up last quarter as per our of you please just review this and it\u0027s not accurate and if you still need to do some updates on this document just let us know so we can remove these documents from our home aren\u0027t you I got a question with got a question with respect to the service chaining draft that you\u0027re looking for the author\u0027s to be proactive and taking care of the comments or that because none of the none of the authors are so you know none of the main authors are here so I was going to relay that yeah we have contacted via tows many time by email without any answer oh I said directly okay yeah so at a certain point to Stewart wanted to a updated document but we don\u0027t have any answer anymore during my lifetime as channel base I think we managed to find three different editors which all three of them never managed to edit the document so it\u0027s a cursed document and we have two new working group documents so one for the EVP another speaking and we have EVP engineer also we are just waiting the author to publish the document using the - idea because it still as an individual rise today a vanity test in adaptive we have also a long list of documents that are all ready for working hope adoption again if these documents are not really ready we need to be aware about this - yeah to process the documents via right order milestones so we are clearly laid on some topics so the first one is yeah we have the top yet - to submit at least reading layer three layer two and evpn in January we are now in July and not done yet so I think we will have an update on yang on our first accession "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:37",
    "text": "the GP and SH control plane we are targeted to ascend - aah by March we are really not too far to do it but as I have told very still enough data to do by Adrian and DPS returning I think we should be able to do crap what about topic that we wanted to mention during this statute is that various currently multiple documents whatever its invests or ideas that are dealing with IPSec encapsulation by the graph from a leaked device also to drive from Ali talking about secure VPN and we have also some drafts on the idea so we had this kind of site meeting with the idea of shares in June try to see how we can organize this work for the IPSec PGP similarly what has been agreed is that if we need to define some sincerely for internal encapsulation this will be done in idea but people from best can I can contribute but then a part of that we need also to try to work on via security Association mechanism and how to do be signaling us who through bgp we need to try to harmonize as much as we can between the different use case I will do with signaling one of the fact is that we don\u0027t really have all the IPSec expansion idea on even invest so what has been decided is that there will be and discussion in idea of tomorrow discuss this topic including some IPSec experts that will help us to determine whoa yeah what is the best way to are to do this so if you are interested in this topic please beware tomorrow in idea to our to air power and provider for by your comments so here is our agenda for today so we start the presentation go have a few hours first on and do we want to say something now go have will be the first one yeah no no you are not satisfied grow up is the first time yeah yeah but but yet some sub constraints "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:44",
    "text": "hi everyone my name is Gerard Avril LinkedIn um I\u0027ll be presenting on behalf of the authors and sorry le for bumping it on so I\u0027ll be presenting the SR v6 BGP overlay services we have presented this draft few times before if presented in ITF 98 for l3 VPN then we presented again evpn services in idea 101 in idea then we presented change the draft and presented in bests in idea 104 and this document has matured significantly there has not been any significant changes made to the document in multiple years and it has even multiple customer deployments in the field around the globe so in this update we are doing some minor modification addressing all the comments which are coming in from the working group members and also special thanks to Jorge and Allie for you know for me to be packing issue which was there which we have addressed in this document so thanks for their contribution and we have added them as the contributor and authors in this document so the one other problem which was originated in the last working group was about the BGP packing in certain conditions especially when it\u0027s a EVP and VP WS we have a case where we may be able to do suboptimal packing in BGP so let\u0027s say all the attributes in BGP are common across certain set of LR eyes but because of the EVP and VB SS ID might be different it can actually lead to the suboptimal packing of the BGP updates going out so what we have created is introduced a flexibility of having the function and arguments in the and this in the label field of the NLRA so the attribute will remain the same and we are advertising that as a sub sub TL via structure sub sub TL v in the bgp update because of the nature this is an optional sub sub TL v it\u0027s fully compatible with a the current implementation which are out there so this is how the sub the stage structure sub sub TL we will look like so we\u0027ll have the SS SR service data subsidy LV set to 1 which represents the structure TLB length the usual boilerplate fields we also have a transparent transfer position length which is basically the part of the CID shifted into the label the label field and then the offset for those bits just to go over the implementation status as I was saying earlier there has been deployments which are publicly announced so Softbank China Telecom has already deployed and there are multiple other deployments which are not public yet which will be released by the vendors there has been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:45",
    "text": "three Cisco Harding hardware forwarding planes which have already supported and two Cisco operating systems Huawei has also supported multiple platforms and then it\u0027s also supported in Linux kernel natively we also have barefoot Tofino OCP and wedge implementation there is also a document which is out there which gives more status about the deployment status for the for this particular draft so any other comments are welcome and now we are seeking the working group adoption for this document thank you so I had some concerns and comments in the last Rev and the author\u0027s work in good faith and diligently to address most of it so the draft is in pretty good shape and I think it is ready for to be progress to the working group thank you feedback I have two questions yes individual Stephan Kirsty why don\u0027t you use the turn around caps attribute to tell that you are doing s embassies just to be consistent with all of your own conservation type so we are trying to be consistent with the way that s are signaling is being done at thatís why you using the prefix set attributes yeah but perfect seed was fought with MPs in mind which was consistent will be as I said he is using but I\u0027m pretty find that you are using the DGP privacy to signal all necessary attributes that you need but for me it would be great to add an addition turn on caps for consistency reason to tell that it\u0027s doing the services will consider that discuss about it and my other point still speaking as your is about packing which is a good thing to add what I don\u0027t like is that you have two ways to do the same thing so can you consider doing just a single one because you know we don\u0027t it\u0027s not really clear in the drug you are not telling that you must do be a I would save it back to me friendly way most encoding all that it\u0027s not really clear which way should be used in my opinion may be better to have a single one if you want to optimize for packing yer just do it but do it always getting the logical Cisco so by definition the saved structure and the size and how much is the function is you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:46",
    "text": "know flexible we should in most cases that we see which should be able to fit it in the label field but it may not be possible to do that so we don\u0027t want to you know take out that that option so adding complexity I think it\u0027s something that we\u0027re looking to for sure in in a walkthrough but that was the I wanted to share the motivation for why and why it was original that packing concerns that Shiho has as mentioned is is worth solving yes but yeah we need to prevent any too much complexity if I may add for for them to solve the packing they introduce you know this flexible structure and all that and that basically is a superset so once you have that then sending getting a you know opaque way that introduces very little complexity so having in other words having both of them once you have the way to address the packing having the second way introduces very little overhead okay thank you for your feedback who has read the document who thinks it is ready for working or adoption okay thank you good thank you next feature addy I was getting very comfortable in my place sitting okay - you know a status update for two short drafts the first one for the multipad procedure for evpn all active waited multipath and that is basically if you have a all active multihoming and not all the links are of the same bandwidth and either as a result of the failure or the way it was configured right from the beginning then the question is how do you do weighted load balancing toward these different links from the for both unicast and multicast traffic so for this is just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:47",
    "text": "giving you a quick solution summary that for the unicast traffic you advertise the bandwidth attribute along with the ether ad per ESI to the remote pease and once remotely is get that they create the path list based on these attribute from different e\u0027s to decide how to do the load balancing and if for example you have I think there is a example here that if you have a PE one and T C one is multi onto p1 and p2 and p1 advertises the bandwidth attribute to the remote PE that says I got twice the bandwidth than the PE two so PE X which is a remote PE creates a pathways that weights the PE one twice as much as PE 2 and thus the load balance in sends traffic to PE born twice more than the PE 2 so that\u0027s where the unicast traffic for the multicast traffic they do these bandwidth attribute exchange among the multihoming pease and then they decide how to do the DF election or weighted DF election and the based on that they decide PE between p1 and p2 p1 and p2 among themselves decide who should forward more traffic to the cee based on that weighted DF election so these are some quick summary of the solution section we added a very short section section 4.4 to optimize the weight the weighted DF election based on weighted HRW and there is a new draft that talks about how these weighted HRW is done so this is a quick this is a very brief section pointing to that draft in terms of the status of it it is in good shape and has been a stable for quite some time and it is pending implementation and I think it is ready for the working group Co Lascaux so I\u0027m sorry say that again yeah just to have an idea about the timing of the timing of it timing of the implementation I don\u0027t know about the you know the other vendors but with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:48",
    "text": "respect to Cisco I can get the information and send it on the mailing list yeah I don\u0027t know off of that top of my implementation push ok I see any comment on this one yes okay extended mobility procedure for evpn IRB this is a draft that also been around for a while and this one I know the status of implementation it has been implemented this if you look at the baseline 7432 it is assumes one-to-one mapping between the Mac and IP address so the host has one Mac and one IP address and that\u0027s the fixed mapping there are a bunch of use cases that has nicely been described in this draft that talks about that might not be the case you might have many IP to Mac binding or vice versa many Mac to IP bonding and in those cases the host IP moves hoseok we can move to a different Mac or host Mac and move to a different IP binding and the last case is well there is also when you talk about l3 purell three use cases you\u0027re not going to have a MAC address at all you\u0027re just going to have an IP address so then how do you take care of the IP mobile in those cases how you take care of the mobility so these are the three use cases that been described in the draft and talks about how to do it and the way they they do that is instead of having a sequence number individually per match or per IP which creates complication they anchored the sequence number to only the MAC address and then the IP in heresy and if Mac moves then that takes the anchor sequence number with it and with the rotted overlay which is pure IP case adjusts the sequence number our applies to the IP address just as if it applies to the MAC address so the procedures in the routed overlay is basically the same as Mac mobility in 7432 also the draft describes duplicate address detection the duplicate address detection is already there for when you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:51",
    "text": "have Mac duplicate and then the giraffe adds what happens when you have IP duplicate IP with different Mac bindings or duplicate IP for the case of the routed overlay there was a the changes relative to the last riff it\u0027s been minor when had a comments with respect to some certain race condition that we thought it is worth a worthwhile to capture it in the draft making sure it is documented so we added a short section to capture the race condition and the remedy for that also we fixed some terminology and for consistency with the other evpn documents and some minor edits this one is also being implemented by multiple vendors and we are good to go for the working group Lascaux Thank You Justin sir I have question previous draft the this draft or previous run the extended community I\u0027m very much interested myself in making it transitive I was reached out to Pradesh but he\u0027s not really responding and lot extended community for which the community is non-transitive as of today so it cannot be used on a BGP the Mac mobility external community bandwidth community order that one okay so when you reach a did you get any response on that yeah okay I\u0027ll take an action item on there okay so that action actually might amuse on me Jeff as I haven\u0027t follow up on the link bandwidth just for a second so junipers implementation has been transitive for ages it squats on exactly the same code points just with the different transitivity bitch this is a known Interop problem the link bandwidth draft has gone ietf dead for a while got dusted off I think my Keith on the about a year ago we really should just work together and try to actually get this taken care of sure the main interesting headache that we have for applications regarding Beth\u0027s and IDR is that sometimes you may want it to be and transitive sometimes me want to eat transitive so you figure out how to make the to operate together so one question this attribute is frankly defining a new dress is a different draft and it\u0027s been around for ages and somebody I think volunteers to move it forward so okay so I basically what I\u0027m trying to say it is nothing to do with this draft because this draft just references the other one but we need to solve that one in order to make sure you know the crit for the transitive and non-transitive cases it\u0027s okay right so I guess my suggestion is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:52",
    "text": "that rely on the draft itself in terms of encoding don\u0027t worry about the fact that it\u0027s you know transitive versus not use what is appropriate for your mechanism but I realized my theater of issues next picture I I\u0027ll be presenting this staffed update for on behalf of all the authors so this stuff too was originally published in 2005 fifteen and it was presented in the ITF at Parag in 2015 and then again last year in Montreal idea and last month in May it was accepted as the working group document and an Rev zero has been published so I\u0027m not sure why it\u0027s still not showing at least I see it showing up now so some of the revision history for the staff that first published in 2015 it has had eight reasons and in last one year it did not have any changes the last major changes were done in ref 5 which was in July 2017 about two years ago where we had changed some sub tlvs silver rearrange some fields were rearranged and and the text was modified for this draft so in general draft is very stable for for more than a year now and we think it should it\u0027s crazy ready for the W but group last fall are you done yes yeah for caravel on Nokia no just a couple of comments so in the ISO in the earth tlvs you put a tournament tag ID before the Ethernet segment identifier whereas if you look at the routes in RFC seven four three two is the other way around so the the ESI is actually above the ethernet tank is there any reason for it or it\u0027s just there it\u0027s just alignment no there\u0027s no any particular ease and we are just defined because these are new definition for these sub t always right so even though they are based on what\u0027s in the RFC 4:32 but these are I mean new TLDs really so we have put it this way but today we can take your comment yeah I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:52",
    "text": "mean if there are no implementations yet it would be nice to follow the same order okay sure in the end the other thing is uh I\u0027m missing for instance the there\u0027s no TL fee for the SPM see a tear out so do you have any plan to add more routes and tell these to the DM the draft so why don\u0027t we discuss this offline then sure yeah okay sure against Jeff insurer thank you seven euros the next one I good afternoon Sammy Boutrous from VMware so okay sorry yeah I\u0027m gonna be presenting this draft it\u0027s about extending EVP and support you need so so the draft was first presented at IETF 99 in 2017 in Prague - so what is that what the draft is about is that how can we extend the EVP and control plane to support an ink cap for Geneva Geneva has been a tunnel encapsulation that\u0027s adopted now by enviously as a sender in cap so so this is why it makes sense to have a VPN control plane support Geneva encapsulation so the draft specify how can we support that in the BGP tunnel encapsulation as well as the draft defined a new genève option an option TLB or the reason described here so that option TLB is going to be used to carry indication for the bomb traffic as a wee bit as well an indication for Zelly for root leaf handling and as well it will have an optional 24-bit this is for between codes ESI equivalent to the ESI label for split horizon business so this is what that 20 is those 24 bit will be useful which is going to help do the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:54",
    "text": "split horizon as I mentioned and and those will be added on the evpn pet es el Toro to discover a deer out for superiors as per 74-72 actually III missed the work group at adoption that happened in June so I guess I\u0027m the one who missed it not Parag for om draft so I missed our group adoption but I will upload when I am when after IETF as soon as possible the IETF version of the draft so questions comment if that may be possible yeah sure yeah um well let me ask you this question where were you intended cherish how does this relate to the last discussion we had about tunneling caps additions going are we gonna put them in ID are we going to put them in best or do we just sort of figure out which one and go from there okay tunneling cap draft is closed last time we discussed about the IPSec congratulation that general but uh yeah I I just end at least in my opinion we could invest at the new types with in vitro their own caps okay that was different than my understanding that\u0027s fine just a minute so the problem we had with IPSec is that you already had some RFC\u0027s within idea dealing with IPSec encapsulation that we have two I would say replace right that\u0027s why it\u0027s your job okay so you have a look okay so one of the things is we have we\u0027re finishing off the current tunneling caps draft and we\u0027re both taking tunnel end caps additions we\u0027ve either got a you know we work well together we just got a cross do this and not have people having the same type of tunnel end caps next set so I think we need to harmonize that together both places have good things but they have to be cross reviewed we need to not have things coming for the same thing but that that is I\u0027m assuming we\u0027re going to do that because you guys are great for the genève and the beer stuff we need to be careful on the on the basic functionality and that is where I\u0027m gonna make a direct comment towards your draft good stuff want to see it in tunneling caps no problem we need to think about the chicken-and-egg approach with tunnel and caps with Geneva if once an overlay underlay how are we gonna "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:54",
    "text": "think through that particular problem you have genève your BGP and then you create another level sorry I\u0027m missing what is does 11 let me try to address it I mean this is is a good concern because the tunneling cap draft is you know we\u0027re trying to publish it as the RFC is in the last stages been around for ages and we don\u0027t want to add any more to it and if you want to add it then we want to make sure that we are in sync so however with respect to this draft as specifically and with respect to other evpn drafts we don\u0027t use tunnel in cap we just use the extended community which was defined in RFC 5512 that\u0027s all we are using every other fields comes from evpn rocks so we are not using tunnel and cap in here and although is the valid concern but it doesn\u0027t cause any issue here thank you very much charlie what the tunnel caps draft says right now is that you have limited use going forward of the of the community so that\u0027s a problem we need to address with it now before we shove that forward up to the ice tree for this particular draft my point was was different first there\u0027s the chair stuff I\u0027m trusting you guys just mentioning we we gotta go deal with where we do this stuff if you\u0027re shoving forth for example extended communities that\u0027s against what\u0027s in the current version of the that\u0027s been passed through working group calls sent to you guys we need to deal with that with the rest of you pants I\u0027m trusting the chairs I\u0027m trusting although we\u0027re gonna do that that\u0027s not my point I was making to this author to be respectful my point is genève underlay overlay can be layered one two three with BGP and concept I would like to have and we can take it offline it\u0027s like I don\u0027t understand on the layover later you and do three has underlay with an overlay yes and Geneva is being used as the underlay in okay okay I think I think yeah maybe you can take these data plane encapsulation and yeah and BGP is control plane so there you know yeah yeah sink but we can take it offline sorry and one and one other thing the tunnel in cap is backward compatible with respect to the extended community they inherited extended community which defines a tunnel tight from 5512 they put it into the tunneling cap and whatever we have in the evpn is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:57",
    "text": "consistent with the tunneling cap that uses the PGP X and the community so these are not you know we are not in conflict on anything like that is compliant with 5512 that\u0027s true well 50s and then 5512 is obsolete in and got superseded by tunneling cap but it still stay compliant with exactly all the procedure they in the tunnel in capture if they define the procedure that okay you can only use extended community and the whole we\u0027ve worked with the author of the tunneling cap to make sure that what we have you know is it\u0027s resistant and doesn\u0027t break anything so genève is just another Ayana type or what\u0027s so ready okay thank you very much oh sorry thank you they speak out batteries so hi I\u0027m Beth explicit from Cisco system today I just want to give you a quick update on the fast DF addiction recovery mechanism that we\u0027ve put in place into the draft so basically just a quick recap because it\u0027s been a while that we have presented that that draft so so today if you look at the RFC 742 the way we are doing recovery for any length failure or node failure we use a peering timer which is I think by default the three-second timer and so therefore your recovery is about three seconds so it takes a bunch of time and and for surely a lot of customers are not happy about it so therefore we scratch our heads and came up with two different options and one of the options is the handshake and another one is a recorded the synchronization you using more like an NTP approach so for T and for the handshake basically we to Newark ties has been introduced and pretty much you just tell the other guy hey I\u0027m gonna be the I need I\u0027m gonna be covering basically giving you kind of a message European peace and the pinkies when they are ready and they have done their their switching for the D afresh and again you\u0027re gonna give you kind of an acknowledge that\u0027s one of the mechanism pretty straightforward however we got a couple of complaints that you all so why do we need new route time so as author we are looking at really optimizing the the way we are doing it just for two keys because it\u0027s usually cover maybe 90 to 95 percent of all the multihoming use case that we are doing so soon on the next videos you will see some tanks there how we\u0027re gonna do this regarding the the other option is really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:59",
    "text": "with the DF addiction synchronization so pretty much that one is very very simple so the guy which is which is recovering is encoding inside a a new BGP x10 committee just a time stand say hey I thought at a point of time I\u0027m gonna switch over and and and and we carve my my service so you give that to the European bees and that that time that that value that we are passing is like in the future so all the green viewers okay cool so we are empty peacocks saying so therefore I 5 p.m. at 32nd everywhere we\u0027re gonna switch over and this is how it\u0027s the mechanic so we have both options I think we are still seeking for more comments but one thing that you need to be aware is both an implementation has been implemented both option has been delivered also the customers so it\u0027s being used and we are getting good result with that work group eruption also will be very very nice for this draft that\u0027s it I\u0027m done no comment yeah oh sorry wait I say oh sorry sorry thank you big speaker Jeffrey okay and making source discover interrupts into operation this is a ongoing collaboration between the co-authors or existing traps and stake neck neck Amana a new aspect of this topic so MVP MSD PSC interoperation drafts is about translating MVP and sorcerer key routes into MSTP source active messages that drafts is ready in queue for the working group last call it has not been called yet but then steak and the McManus said wait could we add another small thing into this as well they were which is pfm SD and what what and what is that its existing RFC pin flooding mechanism and source to gas discovery basically the pimpy SR mechanism is extended to flood general information through a pin domain and in this case that is used for announced source information throughout "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:01",
    "text": "the pin domain for example the first hop router once it detects a particular source for per group it will use the pfm to flood the information and the last hop routers will join that sg3 directly instead of going through the share tree and switch so the first hop router will also include its own address as the originator address in the PFL message with that each hub will use that address for RPS checking if you receive that PAP messaging from the non PR RPF neighbor then you will discuss the discarded that as the information is encoded as TLD in that message so that\u0027s basic what that pfm as the RC it\u0027s about now now comes to the interoperation with em VPN so we so in the MEP in case if you\u0027re using MSTP then this the once the a PE learns that as a source and group information from either MSD P or from NPM register it will advertise a ma p NS a routes that\u0027s the MSTP case now similarly that PE once he received the prm\u0027s as the flooding the SSE information it could also trigger Mbps a routes and under egress PE when the when you receive the MSD p sa when you receive mm dpns a routes you could trigger MSD PSA announcements and similar to that here instead of clicking MS D P you could figure PF m SD messages and in both cases you use the existing making s ARP address extended community that is defined in that draft I mentioned earlier we can use that to carry the early originator address so that\u0027s when the egress P received that Mbps a route you can use that some address carried in in that extended community as the original address in the triggered p FM as the message there are some details about this for example if a suicide is multi-home to p1 and p2 then it will trigger to Mme PSA routes from those two keys respectively as for the same as G mapping they carry the same extending community because it does Messier coming from the same first hop router but those to em and being sa routes who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "will have different are our deeds and the third PE receiving those multiple as a Mbps a routes they will only need to trigger one PF MSD and a message because it\u0027s actually from the same one there is one question should be one trigger p.m. MSD from the ma PSA routes from PE to that\u0027s the question that we already have some thoughts but we haven\u0027t really decided yet another small thing is that when the under and I on the source side if that p FM SDS in mapping x outs then as Mbps a route is withdrawn by the originating PE and on the other side when you receive that withdrawal route withdraw then the PE could optionally change the whole time in their group sauce Haute I\u0027m Tod in the P at MSD music to zero that basic Cal the downstream Rogers hey you can this is timing out you timed out you can remove it so now it\u0027s it\u0027s simple enough straightforward very similar to MSTP case there is one small cut shot we need to get some opinions of the working group on and it shares the that RFC about PF MSD is experimental so we could we rename the existing drafts about MSD p sa incorporation we rename it to a media source discovery interoperation cover boss as long as it\u0027s not a croissant concern that the p FM as the ARP C is experimental if that is a concern then we could say that okay let\u0027s just do them separately when we finish the section MSD one as is and then to a separate one but other than that it\u0027s that things are very similar a cylinder Cisco ah how many how widely the implemented and deployed is is is that PF MSD impairment is stake here okay yeah hi yeah so it is implemented I know are implementations but I\u0027m not sure how much deploy that this probably not at this point Russia project Cisco so there\u0027s a question does this also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:04",
    "text": "cover scenarios where the source active discoveries are both MST fee and pfm a different each citizens here using the same extended community to carry the RP address and Mississippi source active as well as the euro generous if 2p is discover sources by these two different mechanisms does this handle them we we don\u0027t think this is a problem stick make comment by a further because even though we\u0027re using the same extended community they were it\u0027s just in one case in MSD be case it does carry the RP address in other case is really the address of the first hop router no my question is if if a receiving be receives to source actives from different ingress beads how does it know whether to go generate a MSTP source active in the site or pfm testing message to the side out is believed that will be depending on the provisioning if you are configured to MSD be than your original MSD be if you do compared to the PF MSD then you to the p.m. MST my point was really trying to go towards option to to separate these two to make them explicit okay thanks case Luana San Francisco so I also have opinion that so we have predictable things the way we learned souls and the baby announced in fabrics two different things so sauce discovery has to happen separately and the baby announced we should not tie together so it has to be separated we we have to split out in a clear form as the learning from in if you not respond I\u0027m I\u0027m having trouble I\u0027m just trying to say we need to you know separate these two things okay between some idea you may learn so trip in tomorrow it could be something else you could you could have some EVP and networks or you can just have like you know someone Afghani mechanism anywhere we can just learn the matica source in this side of the fabrics you can just learn source in different means that needs to be decoupled from advertising the source announcement fabric side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:04",
    "text": "stick stick on us again so what I imagine will happen and I know people are in just some people interested in doing is having some pim domains where they\u0027re using around the weak points in MSTP and having other PIM domains where they are using PF MSD so I could imagine use cases where you basically the same organization they might have one site using MCPS out on the other a PF MSD and most useful to be able to actually have BGP to to kind of bridge those and you can say it doesn\u0027t matter for one site what technologies use for sources covering in a remote side so whether it\u0027s one draft or not find the leader but I think it\u0027s useful to actually it\u0027s the same the same route to announce regardless of how we learned the source okay so I understand that there is no implementation yet though we are implementation but no deployment of this pmf a pfm SD which I was not aware about I may be in favor of separating the one just to get close what we are doing with MSD P which is deploying today and then if there is really a use case and put a trivial deployment you may start working on a on your assignment wanna see if there is no deployment I\u0027m not sure that you should also start working on GP SMS teacher just wait for her for customer which is interested maybe okay so this one is about so Marquez in layer 3 VPN that is signaled by eating clean pipe I routes this is joint work between me wing and Jorge so traditionally l3 VPN are signaled by BGP amperes label braking address safely and use mpos tunnels initially it was our fare RC 25:47 and later on became 4364 and correspondingly multicast is specified in RFC 6513 and 14 and then some time earlier the with the EBP in this new draft between prefix "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:04",
    "text": "other husband specifies another way for signal there are three BPM they say use eBay bian and Safie hi-5 routes there are two reasons for for the new signalling one is that it\u0027s good for where you have already using evpn signaling because you have eBay PPD\u0027s and so just extend that existing SFI to do that there\u0027s 3 Sigma Sigma and also allows the use of the X line panels so that way you can provide better SNP hashing things like that so and that can be used even if you\u0027re not using EVP and be preached domains at all be purely a layer so you can still use that so that photo together valency of the be excellent handling even however it could do the same thing that\u0027s even with be cheap with the bgp with a 25:47 signaling by using panel encapsulation attributes but that\u0027s that that came later then now the thing is that if you do have the ER through VPN signal with the impact five routes the way to do multicast is not specified yet it\u0027s outside the scope of the or it\u0027s no document and so this is what this crap is about so there there are three options we we could do multicast the first one is you to use optimized intercepted mode cast which is defined in traps ITF pass IRB multicast it\u0027s the the scenario is that you have data centers interconnected by there are three VPN here we have a picture with three data centers each they listener who have some peas in that rectangular box and the our shapes in those peas are basically the bridge domains now with EBP entellus in the interconnects typically the bridge domains are not stretched across the data centers or you could have them stretched but when you don\u0027t then you use the there\u0027s really pink aside at the to interconnect them in this case even if you don\u0027t have the bridge domain stretched you could use the optimal intercept multicast with the Supplemental bridge domain stretched across the data centers and with that you can just reuse existing already defined or ism procedure to do the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:07",
    "text": "multicast and the its advantage is that it\u0027s all a bit in solution and it\u0027s and also in case of all source multicast or any social markets you don\u0027t need any of the RP procedures it\u0027s just pure EVP and paste starti based forwarding that\u0027s option one the most preferred option when you have this deployment scenario where and you have all the resources and receivers inside that are on the bridge domains the next one is to reuse the RC 25 6514 procedures which with two minor changes the first one is that some with the RFC 6514 procedures the way you do the umh selection which bases RPF selection I\u0027m just selecting upstream PPE to do that you need to make use of the routes that are signaled by even being paid five routes and also if you have a piece at a source or customer source or customer RPE sites than the routes for those customers or customer RP they need to carry to extending communities that are used by RFC 6514 procedures now with the even even type five routes you need to attach those extended community to those routes as well they\u0027re applicable scenarios are basic three scenarios why is that you have a pure layer 3 VPN there\u0027s no Olympian priest domains at all the next scenario is is that you have the VPN priests domains and then you also have sources or receivers that are not connected to the EDP keys but connected to the nursery in peace in that case the origin cannot extend to those nonliving piece the third scenario is that you you have the layer 3 VPN and datacenter interconnects and you could use all them but you may decide that I don\u0027t want stretch SPD\u0027s across that there are cinders so in that case you can use this to interconnect data center gateways however this while this works it may not be desired for some more creatures the reason is that one of the reason to use the type 5e signal distribution is to so that you don\u0027t have to run another set by you can just use a VPN set back to signal your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:08",
    "text": "nursery this unica\u0027s now if you start you want to use a new you use the multicast VPN sapphi to follow market reports this kind of defeats the purpose of that one Ally so with respect to this option to advertising the a VPN rata five unique s and using the for the setting of the MVP and tunnels so that is as you may know has also been captured in the a VPN MVP an interrupter so some of it is overlapping so I haven\u0027t gone through your draft to see exactly the extent of the overlap what I\u0027m sure you are aware away so yeah this is pure layer layer 3 VPN multicast I assume you\u0027re talking about in the sameness mm VPN EVP interrupt there you have been the nearest rien and there to mix together right so note that for some use cases when you\u0027re talking about they\u0027re just pure l3 hmm you are specifying the use case for that so I think we need to have some chat of mine sure okay what about nokia ya know I just wanted to to comment on what Ali said I think this is a very nice trap because it basically codifies the all the different solutions that we have in a multicast for a VPN right but really the option one and two are specified somewhere else where is it the only new thing is the option three right but you are going to talk about now yeah thanks right so we mentioned that this option 2 may not be desired for some repeated operators because they didn\u0027t want to run another set by and so the options 3 is that we adapt the ARP 6514 procedures but instead of using the MCAS VPN server we use immediately in self I here are listed so the route types in for M VPN in 6514 there are seven route types defined for different purposes and interestingly enough all those seven route types there is only one missing on the evap side it\u0027s the source activity routes so if you have an operator who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:11",
    "text": "really wanted to use nursery VPN signal by evpn type 5 and they really don\u0027t want to you can\u0027t use another set by then and just want to keep using eBay being set by for the signaling then we can kind of reinventing the wheel basically just signaled all the procedures that is already defined in our 65 to 514 just signally using evasion SFI manin time we do have some enhancements that could be done as part of while we\u0027re trying who are really many the wheel basically the same s mail routes that thus America\u0027s routes the that could now now once we do it in using SME routes then we can introduce a optional leaf tracking that is not defined in the 6514 but it was mentioned in another draft and also currently SML routes are not targeted they are just flooded at all the PE seeing a pattern priests domain when we use it for the layers of idiomatic us then it could be contacted for optimization again this is something that we could do if we have if you have some operators who really want to go this way but as of now it\u0027s sort of the that the third option that is it\u0027s just on the table that we can even talk about so we\u0027re just right now we\u0027re just taking comments we will add more details about specification so the draft has an introduction section that talks about those scenarios and options and then of make the profile for specification we need to have some normative texts about details and we will add those and we after a couple more round the revisions or discussions at that time would or second option thank you yeah yeah the question for you isn\u0027t it from a Cisco so this talks about individual could you speak in the mic yeah yeah sure I\u0027m just trying to you know campus energy between seamless entrap that that we are presenting and then one that you are presenting so the one difference is with the seamless entrap we are just using a median signal everywhere the one you are presenting we are just trying to use EVP me everywhere including in the network is that correct way of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:13",
    "text": "interpreting your work sim in the sameness interrupt craft you are using the MEP procedure to multicast in the bridge domains and here we are talking about vodkas at the layer three yes not not in not in the place domains so basically we are just using European signals everywhere okay so now it\u0027s time for a more open discussion so we had to comment on the mailing list pointing that the RFC 5549 which is dealing with IP for analyzed carried over with an ipv6 next up so for example a VPN before our querido with 96 next up does not follow really the same encoding flavor that we are using for the TLD for charitable ipv4 next up so the opinion that has been raised is that the guy was expecting the next open colleague to be exactly the same so using via a kind of how distinguish which is zero in the next field followed by the ipv6 address but with arrived CDN 55:49 is just using your regular ipv6 address as the next up so this triggered a kind of interesting discussion on the list I have tried to wrap up different points that have been raised and then yeah it will be time for an open discussion if we need to do something or not on this on this topic the first thing is that the RFC 5549 is really clear about I wish would encode the next up so there is no how to distinguish our so we are just yeah ipv6 address that should be encoded of course this creates a kind of inconsistency compared to what we have done for VPN before with ipv4 next up and VPN v6 with ipv6 next up it is clear that we have distinguished a is not something that is really a relevant for our next step because just create a uniqueness from genera hi but for our next stop it does "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:13",
    "text": "not really it does not really make sense I personally don\u0027t have the history about why we added with zero padding for VPN before using ipv4 next stop and we have this matching of and then I affirm at with the next stop format maybe some people in the audience have the Astoria of why it has been done in such way the other point is that we also have some analyze that make how a multiple ipv6 next up so one which is using the global address and the other one which is the link local address and there was a question about which one which should use and is it causing some implementation unknown or interoperability issues and the last point raised is that in terms of implementation how do the implementation are dealing with next up today so are we checking the next plans to know if it\u0027s an IP v4 next up or IP fro plus and the next up our ipv6 next up and so on so plenty of questions so I have tried to do a kind of inventory of some of the areas that we have invested to know exactly how we are doing the encoding and is the specification telling that we should do a kind of next up length check so I will let you read it off and if you have some some comments about it but what we see is that the only inconsistency that we have today is really with this a VPN style encoding of next up so RC 4364 and 46 59 against this 55 for tonight which is using just for now the ipv6 and without a hard distinguish are otherwise we don\u0027t really have any inconsistency in them of income of encoding so Hobart has proposed and the idea is to do a kind of implementation survey on how the next step passing is the North to debate on implementation so I was speaking about the I will show that implementation today are checking the next up plans field to ensure and to infer what kind of next up T\u0027s are dealing with if yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:14",
    "text": "is it done for all the FS Fe so it\u0027s kind of generic code or is it just done for a few of our sessions that we have defined and I\u0027ll do our implementation today deal with the case where we have two agencies next up anchor D so this is globally what is a what the discussion is about so yeah it\u0027s an open mic so I don\u0027t know if someone has something to say about the subject so the first thing is are we aware about some implementation issues or not Jeff something so do we have some implementation today of the 55:49 jeffires I don\u0027t actually know on a specific basis I just know that this detail pops up pretty much any time somebody makes a new implementation and ends up being some form of inter a problem it\u0027s one of the common details people are just going to get wrong it\u0027s inconsistent the justification back in 25 28 58 were no the same family obviously isn\u0027t getting followed I think it\u0027s just sort of a long-term fallout from we did multi-protocol bgp we had to figure out what the rules looked like at the time and next stop was one of the things that wasn\u0027t quite gotten right like there was no lingering thing in there very original version of the spec for a subnetwork point of attachment thing which you know I as I asked people recognized or our site people recognized but never really got used and when they read the spec they got rid of that piece so I think for actual spec stuff John Scudder would be a better person the supply history I just know that this is probably the number one item that causes interrupt issues new implementations ok because it is a question for the cookies really do we have to fix something in this specification or not to to make the world better in terms of implementation so and your real question is what do we do about this going forward well thoughts are disappointing how do we progress knowing that this is an issue you can\u0027t change the behaviors of the existing documents you know you\u0027ll break know those things for no good reason what I suggest is after the survey is complete and we have no confirmation that people\u0027s implementations really are doing what\u0027s in the spec because that sometimes is not the case hmm that we figure out what behavior we would like to carry forward and do the necessary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:14",
    "text": "update to 20 you know what was 2888 a member of the current RFC number is and carry that for it in all further specs hmm so as I understand in your opinion of this service which is proposed by euro versus something which is useful to do ok so so is it something that you are carrying in idea so upon receiving your information and Roberts request I have already sent out to IDR the easy one the mail is now in another hat in my life I do surveys fancy surveys for fun and grins so this information is important because I believe Jeff that there breaking if for some reason you really want to take this out and the offs people want to take this out and do this I can of course use my other hat and survey cool stuff on Survey Monkey to create a one page survey on this if it\u0027s useful I can do it that was what I said on idea so we\u0027ve done ID our list I can give you better because we really do need this to know if we can do things that maybe we should do in the future that might help our tunneling like Laird next tops or nested tunnels which is some of the questions I was trying to ask the genève foxes are we gonna get into nested tunnels what sort of things you have there good stuff I don\u0027t know so plus one on the survey +1 on IDR doing and if you want me to do something better let me know ok thank you yeah so I think it will be the first step and then we will see very something to Jeff so would Li just ensure the highly utiful and I recorder some issues and a power cut I don\u0027t recall exactly what but there are some ambiguity in the way they were treating next up so would be really good to review who\u0027s doing what and fix it for us okay so if there is no comment I think we are we are done for today so see you at further [Music] "
  }
]