[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:32",
    "text": "Oh hi I do you know how to to mean there is no left you know if I want to open I would like to do you know like different types that\u0027s what I want to do yeah so do you know how to do that yeah but how do you write I mean I would like to open each slide to another tab but I don\u0027t want to waste my time on oh you open manually all the slide you don\u0027t have the right click and yeah that\u0027s a yeah okay that\u0027s the tree yeah yeah that I think I can do switch exactly again so what time is it good evening everyone I think if you\u0027re not expecting to attend the 8th session then you\u0027re in the wrong room I\u0027m wondering if people on emetic who can hear me so please note that there is a note well that applies to the meeting I think you you know that not well very well otherwise just read it very quickly so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:32",
    "text": "starting the agenda I\u0027m going to ask for who who can be who can play the role as a minute taker it sounds the mic doesn\u0027t work who could be the minute taker [Music] no minute taker who could be the job of scribe who volunteers for do we have a volunteer 4-minute taker and job scribe okay so thank you for Jessica Chavez crab so we need a minute taker no volunteers okay okay so is there a name anyone willing to help volunteering to help [Music] so no one is willing to help for the flaminia ticker that would be appreciate we\u0027re looking for a minute thicker okay so let\u0027s start this flame is the latest person coming agreeing to take the all right are you are you agreeing to help the minute taker okay driver so we would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:41",
    "text": "really appreciate a minute Eckhart okay right okay so that\u0027s perfect thank you so we got jabber minute ticker here\u0027s the blue sheets so please sign shit and I\u0027m gonna provide some time for a band to provide any comment so the the current draft we have are the key group calm the group Chrome OS core and the MQTT TLS profile I suggest we start with the group calm yeah yeah you can or do you want to say something fresh Jessica as you wish okay so fine Francesca I just want to confirm with the remote participant if they do hear me or hear Francesca hello hi no I\u0027m telling you any did it is nope nope nope yes thank you so this is an update to the a ski group document a quick recap this document to specify how to get keys and authorizations to group members to join a group communication scenario this is the general one and then the profile the application profiles define exactly what group communication protocol and security protocol are used and so this is structure with the first phase that is defined in ACE with the transition request response and token post and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:41",
    "text": "there is additional steps which are joining request response group rekeying and secure group communication that are also defined here so Version three has it\u0027s been updated following reviews of version two so thank you very much Ludwig and Daniel for providing those reviews these were addressed in the mailing list and we agreed mostly with with the comments we had and we have incorporated them please get back to us if you\u0027re not satisfied with our answer we haven\u0027t heard anything yet so we assume that everything is fine also at IDF 105 there was some discussion and offline chat brought mostly from Carsten and Jim that suggested that we Resta fie our [Music] interface so instead of relying on type of request and response that we create a restful interface at the key distribution center and this is the major difference in this document also we did what I think our major improvement on up in Appendix A which specify requirements of the application profiles that have to build on this document we also got a new review from Jim of version 3 we already discussed this review with Jim offline and we agreed on a way forward there is no major problems with it and also yesterday we got the review from Peter so thank you very much we haven\u0027t had time to look at this review comments but we quickly scan through I don\u0027t see any major issue with it I don\u0027t know if Peters online but if he is anything that anything is worth discussing now please come and comment it so we can do that but yeah some so about the major update Resta fication so now we we define an interface at the key distribution center of different resources so we have the some number of resources under these ace group /g ID g ID is the group identifier and we assume that it key distribution center maintains one resource per security group and this resource supports get and post meta method get would get the group key material post would allow a node to post its own public key to the key distribution center and the response will return the group key material and all the public keys of the nodes other resources are public key that is under the group ID that will allow a node to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:42",
    "text": "get all the public keys of the nodes in the group or request certain number of public keys thanks to the nodes identifiers then we have policies getting the group policies how these are the finest application profile dependent then there is something called context number or CTX num that allows to get a version of group key material this this number is incremented by one every time the group is Rashid and then there is the node resource or endpoint that supports get and post methods a member would do a get to these resource to get individual key materials to protect outgoing messages or it would go at post to request to leave the group and I see Carsten has a comment yeah custom moment there are three pairs of getting post there and I think the first and the third are idiomatic I can barely hear you could you speak a bit okay there are three pairs of given post there and and I think the first and the third idiomatic the second really is one of those cases where we designed fetch for yeah and so we got this comment from Jim as well and actually let\u0027s go to that slide they have it yeah that\u0027s the that\u0027s a fourth point using post or a public key of note seems like the wrong method James suggested fetch we didn\u0027t go with fetch because that is optional like in co-op it\u0027s not mandatory to to have like you can have monetary to have post either exactly the same status okay I thought that would if you implement co-op according to specification you have to have post is that not the case can I just defines the number of methods and which of these you actually provide as a server that\u0027s up to you okay Klaus close yeah I just assumed that like the beta base co-op implementation would not necessarily have fetch because it came later and you know it\u0027s not us yes so so that\u0027s why we there is little point to add something to co-op and and then continue using the workarounds that were necessary five years ago so I think we should just assume it\u0027s clear and I mean it\u0027s not not the amount of code you have to write for supporting this is kind of very small okay so okay we will add that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:45",
    "text": "thank you for that yeah so this is what we did so far and then we got we defined the operations that by specifying what endpoint to contact so we said for doing a joining of a group you do this request for doing retrieval of updated key material or new key material or public keys or group policies or in key material version etc we define what method on which resource so we have we have planned the update of version four following genes review so the main difference is that instead of having this node path we will now have one node resource per member of the node per member of the group so before we had just a node path there would be the same for all the members and now we\u0027re gonna have a different one for each member so instead of using get to get the KDC to produce and return the individual key material james\u0027s that suggested we use foot and we use get instead to get the group key material plus individual key material that would allow also to observe that resource and finally instead of post to leave the group Jim suggested delete so we thought these were all very good ideas and unless objections we\u0027ll go ahead and do this change just to have a sense of the room is there anyone disagreeing with us or having any comment with that do do people have a clear opinion or people are fine either way I guess that we will do the update and see if it\u0027s gonna be easier to understand once the update is done and then following that we will have to do some update to the operations yeah this is all covered by the previous slide as well so there is also some minor or other comments following Jim\u0027s review so the first one was if the client contacts the KDC endpoints not on the secure channel it gets an error for one and authorized and Jim was suggesting that we include the AAS creation hints so the response to the token post in the errors payload we thought that\u0027s a good idea so second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:47",
    "text": "point is because of the change of three source from node to the to the node name every node will need this node name even if this node is just monitoring it\u0027s not gonna send any message so it does not need an identifiers for the group but it does need some type of identifier for or name for this another comment was about sending the array of certificate instead of the UI of key repository refine with that and then the usual finally the using fetch instead of post so we go ahead and do that and also we got the comments from Peter that we will add but we didn\u0027t see anything major yet so yeah that\u0027s it unless there are comments or questions from the jabber may be any any remote participant has any questions comments okay so I mean I\u0027d like to understand if the I mean if if there are any comments or opinion on how to move the draft forward any comments so that we can move faster we basically just need to do this update now yes well not but there is no I would like to avoid that comments comes you know once so it\u0027s it\u0027s time to to raise your opinion if you have any because man gently for implementers it\u0027s quite useful to know whether a draft currently is quicksand quicksand or whether it\u0027s ready to implement so I think at some point we should simply say okay we are done shifting things around please go ahead implement it and then we read more feedback so I think personally that this draft has improved a lot with this update and it\u0027s not ready to implement because we want to do this next update first and once we have processed these comments for this update and Peter\u0027s comments and if you don\u0027t get any major objection I think we that would be that will be it and possibly before next idea so I would propose that we actually in the front matter of the draft at some point say hey this is an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:48",
    "text": "implementation draft so we ask people to implement it because we are done making changes on our own and we know would like to make only changes that are based on feedback from implementers yeah that should be a standard procedure because I think when people implement this they will find other interesting but they won\u0027t when they think it\u0027s moving we usually do state that when we post the update on the mailing list but yeah yeah but I think it really put into the draft right after the abstract in the note section sure so do you have any do you want to implement that as soon as it\u0027s ready or yes okay Jim shot from the jabber I think a minimum of two drafts I think he need means draft versions are going to be needed before it is considered too be stable so update four and five I would interpret it that okay if you get comments on version 4 and we feel like we have enough comments sure so version for tomorrow and five the day after okay any additional comments so maybe Jim can you explain why we need a version 5 so Jimmy\u0027s coming based upon how fast things have been going in the past and the fact that we\u0027re basically major architectural changes I won\u0027t be surprised if the next version 4 is going to have to have some fairly major updates in version 5 before things are finished okay okay fair enough and so version 4 when could we expect to have that version 4 is that I mean a month maybe a month maybe two no there is Christmas in between you ain\u0027t right it on the plane okay so December that\u0027s what I\u0027m hearing yeah sure or generate okay perfect so next issue is that slide "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:50",
    "text": "so I guess this is my chance to point out that Jim had tried to ask a question to prompt me about the things I was supposed to be talking about at the start when I was still getting in a little flustered so Jim wanted to ask when the reviews are gonna happen reviews gonna happen for the two drafts that are currently in publication requested the profiles for DTLS - no scar so I had sort of been playing those unhold a little bit while we were working through the comments on the the core framework which is in very good shape I think Ludwig and I were syncing up earlier today and we have like four points left that needed a few tweaks so it\u0027s pretty solid and we\u0027re unlikely to need more changes to the framework that will require cascading changes into the profiles so I should unhold if you will the two frameworks they\u0027re waiting review and so I\u0027ll select those back into my review queue I think I\u0027ve got two drafts from second vent then I need to look at first and then these the two profiles will be after that in my ad review queue the week when I get back from here is mostly booked already I\u0027ve had people pestering me about resolving their discusses or my discusses on their documents but I think the the week or two after that I should have time to get back to this queue so three weeks from now Thank You Ben and when you we appreciated the good review you provide hello this is Marco Tioga from rileys this is another working document and an application profile base to support just closer yeah okay market order from rice this is an application profile of ace also working document the support group was called communication and it\u0027s of course an instance of a scam that\u0027s what that was presented before here in particular we describe how client can join an Oscar group in an authorized way through the respective manager get the key material to participate in your communication secure with group of score and as a current group member also have further interaction with the group manager to get latest updated new key material and so on according to this flow chart the were a few points raised "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:51",
    "text": "at the previous meeting on this draft just quickly not on them we are still at meeting for the time being three different alternatives for the join node to agree with the group manager on the exit algorithms and related parameters used for signing in the group that we believe can definitely coexist we solved actually the other three open points on how to signal the exact encoding protocol the keys in a group and how the client can prove up process can prove the possession of its own private key to the group manager upon joining essentially through a challenge from the group manager plus it\u0027s a month and we are also now mandating that the group manager preserves the very same sender IDs group members in case it fully Ricky\u0027s and the group of course thanks a lot for the review gave us actually right during the the past meeting that we processed for this update on top of that we introduced also coordinating with SQL comm the concept of group name that now has nothing to do with the oscar group ID not to mention we were tools previously use 0 by the and so on this is just plain important identifier that is used to get the access token to present the group manager and then later on to refer to the group the journalist was just renamed as group membership resource Koz is not about joining anymore for current group members that\u0027s the resource access to to have further more interaction with with the group manager but that\u0027s just a matter of renaming and we are providing an example path for that and then we have a number of profile specific qualifications on the behavior and the duties of the group manager as responsible for checking compatibility of public keys in the group against the ones provided by the join node upon joining and exact Asians it has to take upon a new node and not joining the group or current member leaving the group of course now this is also lying with the rest base product considered in s click on that Franchesca presented and we reference to that couple of details we were signalling the exact encoding publication in the group considering values for the CWT confirmation method registry so we we get rid we got rid of the old register we were defining and just reusing an existing one if there are no objections we are considering to recommend the size of 8 bytes for the challenge nuns returned by the group manager they\u0027ll be aligned essentially with a choice and there is now in the oscar profile and we got the question from jewish out actually for SQL comm that we think of specifying in profiles like this one there are cases where the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:51",
    "text": "group manager doesn\u0027t actually have the opportunity to return announced to the client for producing a signature for proof of possession like the case where in the first profile the access token is conveyed you ready handshake itself in that case a challenge can actually be the TLS exporter of the vehicle session and that\u0027s essentially what the nqt profile is also doing during the join request same thing we think recommending an 8 byte nouns we clarify that signature for possessions computing especially using the very same signing key despite the journey not in the Oscar group and in the joining response when returning public keys of current group members to the joining node here comes about identifying the exact associated group members which is something the Prophet has to define and here we\u0027re defining that that identifier is the sender ID of that member in the group which is also included into the public itself as value of the key ID field according to the same interface of course it\u0027s possible to ask the the latest key material and we are simplifying that as happening where for instance enough messages are failed to be a correctly processed or verified or the material the material is expired and we are also exemplifying the case when a group member can get back to the group manager to ask for new individual key material and in particular we say a new sender ID and that is especially the case when the sender sequence number of a group member robz around so in order to be able to restore from zero it has to change its own sender key material and that can be practically at you getting a new sender ID and read arriving it\u0027s non center context the other operation worth noting is possible of course to leave the group this is just consistent with the current format of whisky comm in that case across the group manager frees up the sender ID value of the leaking node and unless the public key of that knot is used in another group the public is also removed when it comes about getting public keys of other members either get all of them with a get or specifying a subset of group members the request in all these interested in having the public keys again identifying them with respective sender IDs implementation wise we have numbering implementation in californium from rice it\u0027s aligned with this draft although for time being we are covering only the joining process full version based on a post request and currently supports as associated transport profile used by the client both retailers profile and your profile being you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:51",
    "text": "Ludwick sites this address isn\u0027t correct anymore I transferred the repository to you yesterday Thanks so of course we\u0027ll continue with this consider especially the full restful interface for the group manager other implementations I\u0027m aware of Peter van der stock in the court and not sure about the exact status but Jamie is also kind of working of this so as a summary most of the update is of course has been of course updating this draft to the latest redesign in SQL defining and details expected from profiles of SQL come a few open points we have in my not address for the next update which will be of course about chasing improvements in sto comm continuing implementation and interrupting I\u0027m just so if we use the the exporter I mean what is the size of the exposure the GLS exporter don\u0027t remember my heart because I just expect it to be a little bit longer than a bite yeah okay right and so these are the questions you\u0027re raising or I mean is a right there are no objections for anyone we plan to go like this how does this move it so I\u0027m coming to it after some time I may need some hand-holding here isn\u0027t there an implicit assumption in the whole design that all the group members use public keys of a certain type or is it like so if one group member uses public keys of certain curve that the other group member doesn\u0027t care about what happens it\u0027s up to the group member to the group manager to the side was a type of public history and how they\u0027re encoded and it\u0027s up to joining not to comply with that so the group member can say that you are not allowed to join the node because you don\u0027t have the public key in the same format as the rest of the group members correct I don\u0027t see this documented anywhere in the draft I think this is a big big assumption that every group member then would use the same curve so even if some of the group members have moved to a curve that is stronger if there is one or few that that use a weaker curve the rest of the group would be stuck to that maybe it\u0027s fine for your use case but at least it should be documented what\u0027s the quincies were announced that the group manager and enforces a check against what the join node tries to provide and what it is expected in the group yeah but like you know curves get updated so how do you now ensure what crypto agility like I want to move to a new curve but I am stuck because all the other group members are are not updating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:04",
    "text": "that was it my way yeah that\u0027s yeah is that how would you how do you think you is that the problem or how do you plan to address that we haven\u0027t seen like that so far I think it can be complicated to admit that every group member can do whatever he wants everyone should be in the same page with final decision the group manager that can in principle change on the run the type of public is enduring calling us on but everyone has to converge eventually because the the problem I would see is that if you have device that are not updated and then all the I mean it\u0027s the least you have the one that is imposing the weak security that\u0027s that so I think it\u0027s it\u0027s fine as long as you document it so just say that the group manager is the one that decides when we move to the stronger crypto curve for example so those which haven\u0027t been updated won\u0027t be able to join the group but this is something that still worth at least having in the document agree thanks also provide some recommendations about the node when you I mean when you design a node and you put it so that should avoid this situation that\u0027s that right thank you okay so um any comments I\u0027m just wondering do you have how would you go from the the exporter to the eight bytes do do you have actually a plan for that there\u0027s a user\u0027s truncate or that\u0027s a possibility women we won\u0027t talk about that yet okay that\u0027s an instinctive answer to coming from Jim okay so the NIST has a strong recommendation how to do that do we have a strong recommendation how to move from some bytes to eight it\u0027s something that affects the impurity profile as well I believe because they are doing the same thing in one particular proof of possession okay Jim from the Jabbar the exporter allows you to set the size for exporting so you can have it fights okay so there is no problem I didn\u0027t hear that seems fine so next presenter MQTT "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:06",
    "text": "okay yeah great should I start you can start oh I mean I am can you order can you comment the slide or do you ask me to do I will have to say next slide okay good good morning at least for me so I\u0027ll be presenting the MQTT TLS profile of ace this is Cheatham Cheng from nominate next slide please so after the draft was accepted as a workgroup item in Prague in ITF 104 we pushed two major changes based on Jim\u0027s and Daniel\u0027s very extensive comments thank you very much for that I highlighted the major changes it\u0027s just sampled there have been various different minor changes as well the first version in the first version zero one we\u0027ve revised the order of how we present the different versions of MQTT and the solutions we provide through ace we make the MQTT version 5 the recommended version and explained the interactions for MQTT version 3 wine as a reduced set of interactions for backward compatibility we also clarified which endpoints are used between the different entities in version 0 2 again based on Jim\u0027s comments we clarified the different methods that the client can use to authenticate and authorize over at Els and MQTT and moved the old set info explanation for token transport from the appendix back to the main text next slide please so one of the questions that was raised in the reviews was it wasn\u0027t clear which end points and which protocols were used between different entities we clarified that between the client and the broker which is the resource server in our profile we mandate the use of mqtt over a TLS and the communication is published subscribe we also use HTTPS between client and authorization server and HTTPS between the resource server and the authorization server but we of course accept the possibility of using other protocols in between client and authorization server and resource server and authorization server including co-op I mean could you see but it was out of scope the description was out of the scope the reason why we went with these choices when we were describing the profile was looking at the MQTT broker implementations in the practice and noticing that they already support HTTP based back-end communication like the mosquito broker we basically also described the profile with the JSON "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:08",
    "text": "encoding but of course it makes the ports Ybor and we followed again the same with the tokens JSON web token or C board web token with proof of possession one thing that needs to be clarified is based on the discussion between high nests I think that was raised whether the descriptions for pop for jot is at the same maturity as in this workgroup and whether we have to be making more clarifications or waiting on other solutions from other work groups next slide please and for the client in a second for a version version or two the major clarification was on how the client authenticates and authorizes to the resource server and looking at the different options through TLS and MQTT and and this was a table of course produced by Jim as well we basically looked at the four options the case where there is no authentication in either of the layers this represents the public topics where there is no permission required to publish or subscribe and also it describes the case we\u0027re all set info following the security properties of the core draft indicate the recommended and described authentication method is in the in the draft is anonymous over TLS and ace authentication in for the client where the client provides the token during connecting to the mqtt server broker we also support the case where token is not provided and this triggers AAS discovery for the case where the authentication is done at the TLS layer we basically have the same descriptions based on the DTLS authorized draft where there are our PK or PS game modes supported in the case of our PK the token must be provided through the outset info before attempting the connection and for the PS K it can be of course provided over the PS k identity when both are used to authenticate the client we say we should this should not be done this is over authenticating the client and we described it as token in connect would overwrite any permissions during the TLS handshake next slide please for the outside info this was described in the appendix as a possible solution if when the authentication is happening over TLS this follows the similar descriptions in the DTLS profile where it\u0027s the same security properties as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:08",
    "text": "well it\u0027s a publish only topic about D broker supports nobody can subscribe to it other than the broker itself and in the cases where this publication this published message is sent with the quality service level higher than 1 the broker may also return a response code not authorized however there is a slight meaning difference here because in MQTT they\u0027re not authorized represents that the publish message is not authorized not that the token is not valid so there might be something to consider here to clarify in the draft and the broker stores and indexes all the tokens and then find the clients during the connection based on this index next slide please for the case that we describe and recommend in the draft the authentication during the ACE and MQTT handshake when the client sends the first connect message we assume that they took that there are two ways to do it the first case where the client passes the token as well as it\u0027s work on tongue challenge to the broker and then using this proof of possession information the broker validates the client and the second option is a challenge response handshake but where the client passes only the token to the broker and then broker challenges the client and expects a response that it can validate the proof of possession we described two cases because the first one is the only available one to the Infinity version three one one mqtt version three one one does not support a challenge response flow but it can be supported in the MQTT version five based on Jim\u0027s recommendations we\u0027ve considered the challenge to any using to communicated through the TLS exporter and things but we decided here as was this you know also raised by the previous presenter whether this challenge input should be configurable should what lengths should be recommended I was thinking 16 bytes but maybe it is to come to a group consensus or what we recommend in terms of challenge sizes and of course we will also need a group input on whether we describe this correctly and what kind of labels we should be registering for the TLS exporter label the same length issue also is open for the challenge response flow which is the second option next slide please for just completeness like I\u0027ll describe the case where there is no token but the method of authentication is a nice in that case the broker will return and not authorize connection acknowledgment and it will use the user property in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:08",
    "text": "MQTT defined - for the broker to provide additional information to the client and AS creation hints and be put in here again this is not possible for MQTT version 3.1 which doesn\u0027t allow additional information to be put into connect so it will be just a disconnect and not authorized for infinity version three one one next slide please so at the moment we basically revised extensively the draft based on the chairs comments and we basically think that there should be some clarifications needed in the way that you know length of the challenges and the TLS exporter labels and whether we\u0027ve explained the different encodings correctly and how the proof of possession is done I think that needs it still checked up a bit more and implementation wise there isn\u0027t prototype implementation for NPT version three one one but we\u0027ve started a collaboration with Edinboro University which is looking at implementing the NPT version 5 version and I think Jim is also working on an implementation a question to the group whether the draft should stay at quantize like this or should it also include the payload encryption for the published message based on the group comb draft so those are all I would like to present today to you thank you have any recommendation from the room Francesca is coming hi Francesca just first a note about the fact that the encryption is not exactly in the a ski group calm is in the pub sub profile that is individual document right now yeah it wouldn\u0027t even need to use the a ski group calm for that and I do think yes I think that would be good to have to describe that Oh for mqtt as well so okay yeah I support that which means we have to wait for the website to be published if we do it if Signum defines that for mqtt referencing the pub side profile then yes that would be you will need to get the pub sub done Jim from from the jabber says I think that it can be done in a separate draft without any issues yeah and talking about that just um from from me now yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:09",
    "text": "he can be done in a separate draft it is already in the pub sub it could split out of the pub sub and we did discuss that before in this working group and the recommendation was let\u0027s not take it out so yeah we\u0027re going back and forth with that but yeah I have a comment on was like six yes it was right on the right side that proof of possession mode so you returned the challenge and rated by the broker and you sign or Mac that challenge alone yeah you may consider what we are doing in in the profile I presented before where something similar happens but what the client signs is actually that challenge concatenated with announced it generates of its own - oh I see yeah I\u0027ve considered - a similar option as well I think I\u0027ll take a look at it mm-hmm just because it\u0027s better to avoid pushing someone to sign something not including something generated by a by itself - I understand I say in that case probably it will to whatever is passed through the tls exporter maybe because it\u0027s something that both the client and the broker knows but yeah that\u0027s the way everyone\u0027s cryin generated you know it\u0027s just fine generated okay the thing is that then you have to include that nouns generated by a client also in the second response you send to the okay I think that\u0027s possible in the o\u0027the data in MQTT I\u0027ll take a look hi this is mode can we go back to the last slide so again pardon me for my lack of knowledge but what\u0027s the use case for encrypting the published message would it still be discoverable after decryption or what what\u0027s the use case so the publish message this is basically addressing the comment where the broker sees everything that is published as a payload to a topic in that case the only the payload will be encrypted and the published topics will be visible and only the clients that are authorized to read what the message is about can read it but they can still discover the topic itself so it won\u0027t affect the topic discovery it won\u0027t affect the fact that broker knows it\u0027s received messages to that topic but it will affect the brokers ability to read those messages okay thank you and you had a question in one of your slides which concerns the length of I think it\u0027s similar to the previous presenter where I was curious whether as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:09",
    "text": "a group we\u0027re recommending a length for challenges and I would like to make sure that the district is basically agrees to whatever is agreed in general in the group yeah so has a group any feedback to provide would be helpful Benny\u0027s coming to the mic bank a doc we had been Caidic we had a little bit of discussion of the jabber room and seeming likely that eight bytes is gonna be the right trade-off here okay thank you good so Mohit what\u0027s the reason for picking eight bytes is it saving some message processing because generally the trend is to 6 to 16 and above so I\u0027m trying to understand why we are settling with it and I had the same question yeah so the idea is that this is a very time limited challenge and so you get sort of you get you\u0027re getting like the channel binding sort of property the attacker would need to guess the exact value so uniqueness as opposed to collision resistance so you don\u0027t need the birthday attack at the birthday paradox attack strength reduction and because we\u0027re in a constrained environment you want to save the bytes basically we already have precedent for using like the eight by authentication tag for CCM and like I\u0027m not super happy about it because I\u0027m used to the the big iron cases very confuse the big novices and not have to worry about it but given all the president I think the the trade-off is likely to end up at eight bytes so I think that you should cut you should have a security consideration at least on the size and explain because I don\u0027t see why what we\u0027re defining in this working group cannot be used outside of the constraint device sis so I think that was being commenting in the security considerations another question I had was whether this should be described as length as of the challenge configurable with a minimum size recommendation of 8 bytes it sounds better would you want it configurable "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:13",
    "text": "like on a per broker basis or a per group or like broker broker basis I was considering that as a per broker basis suggestion when it is you mean per day for broker deployment where the broker would basically tell what input challenge sizes it expects I that\u0027s what I had in mind when saying it but you know the main point is to be clear about let\u0027s go that is perhaps a little more flexibility than it\u0027s clear we need but it\u0027s also not clearly wrong so we can talk about more all right think about it I guess but can\u0027t think of any immediate attacks but I think there\u0027s no reason to do this flexibility if you\u0027re happy with it just stick with it don\u0027t see any reason to more than 8 16 32 or con as I said can\u0027t think of something immediately but may cause us trouble later on ok I prefer to keep it simple I just want to make sure that it\u0027s future proof basically and it\u0027s a fits to the protocols that is included in the draft ok so I because I\u0027m hearing different things so I I understand that having an 8-bit 8-byte it\u0027s not a problem here is there anyone an understanding something different so we can keep it that way that\u0027s my understanding yeah I\u0027m um I don\u0027t know if you see the room but I don\u0027t hear anyone saying otherwise so I guess you can\u0027t go with eight bytes okay do you think you can provide an update let\u0027s say in December I should be able to yes no problem okay so my expectation is that this draft needs maximum to more version before the working group last goal mm-hmm when in December and another one in January because everyone everyone\u0027s gonna review the draft in January so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:13",
    "text": "okay so thank you very much thank you [Music] bye-bye and so now I sweep I try to keep my computer open but is always in sleep mode anytime I want to look at the agenda so yeah so you\u0027re gonna do this one so yes first document that is not a working of document of this session the pub/sub profile for ace I just wanted to add the slide about motivation and a quick recap so this document defines how to use ace to authorize nodes and Parisian keys for co-op pub/sub it also defines how to protect coops of communication using those keys and this second part can definitely be applied to mqtt as well so it was submitted the first time at IDF 98 so it has seen quite a few review updates it also got several news it got positive feedback he got support during previous meetings and has been updated according to the updates on a ski group um look could you make sure you check the jabber just in case thank you okay thanks so there is some related work to this document the core co-op pub/sub that is an adopted working group document and i hope it\u0027s gonna be done soon and then the mqtt pub/sub that is an ace adopted working your document so I only have this slide the status is the document is updated version six complies with a ski group comm there is a plan up data version seven which is keep the key to the update to comply with a ski group comm we would like to or I would like to clarify and expand on the fact that the protection of content applies to MQTT pub/sub as well as co-op pops up right now it\u0027s not it\u0027s possible but maybe it\u0027s not clear enough in the document so I would like to clarify that and possibly improve on encryption and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:14",
    "text": "content protection also if possible to get reviews from the mqtt authors to make sure that they satisfies what they had in mind and before I do so I would like to get adoption from this working group so that we can move forward so know it yet again can we go back to the previous slide so I understand that coop ops of an mqtt pops up are different or there is some some details that are different but architectural II there\u0027s a publisher there is a broker and there is a there are subscribers so is like I\u0027m trying to understand okay the difference between how the keys are used for MQTT so and and let me just say something that yeah I try to express in previous meetings but it\u0027s good to recap here as well this draft is basically two parts the first part is a profile of coop pub/sub as MQTT has a profile for MQTT and the second part is how to use those keys to protect the content of the publication and that part is applicable to both MQTT and pops up because they\u0027re all pub/sub so you can use that and we did have discussion before we go back to should we split it should we not split it should we keep it together should we adopt one to both I don\u0027t know so we had this discussion before and the result was yes we want this or I\u0027m recapping what you know you can find in previous meetings good feedback yes we support this no do not split it because this is simple enough to have in one document so I would be supportive of adopting this document and I still had one question about the first first part so you said it\u0027s it\u0027s a profile of coop pops out yeah what does that mean it\u0027s profile of phase four pops up so it\u0027s - so is it a lightweight profile or is it defining how to do security for coop pops up and the original coop pops up has no security there or is how to do ace to get keys to pub/sub clients so publish and subscribers thank you thank you because moment in the same vein when another pub/sub comes up I want to do this for MU P what do I have to do the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:14",
    "text": "second part would apply of this document because that is general pops up it\u0027s I mean if there is a content there is a broker publish a subscriber you have keys you can use that can I use it right away or do I need this glue that is in the first part can you use it right away or in the first part now you can use that right away okay you mean with mqtt yeah like any pops up so the underlying question of course is there are forms of pops up they don\u0027t have a broker and well then I guess you would depend on what is the structure of the pub/sub but this is about in of content you know generally yes you can use that yeah that\u0027s what I\u0027m aiming at that the very old part here really is the the content interruption so if I\u0027m using 0 mq with norm which is a reasonable way to do pops up I this is really just multicast groups and and some people central the Marty has proven some other people are receiving from the multicast group can I go ahead and use this yeah [Music] seek them from the jabber the name of that draft is pops up something-something will that change if it also describes stuff applicable to MQTT she was under the impression that this or rad the stuff are applicable to amputee t like the payload encryption would be described in the mqtt TLS profile so I\u0027m not sure I got all of that but the first part was about the name of the draft which at the moment is coop yes because that was born as a profile of coop pops up yes when it starts now to describe things applicable to we can change I didn\u0027t think it was necessary because you know it\u0027s just being updated I was hoping we would get it adopted so at that point we can also consider changing the draft name and then the second part was yes she was under the impression that this description of payload encryption would go into the MQTT draft so I mean we discussed it before in a previous meeting me and her write that this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:14",
    "text": "applicable to both like this can be reused in in MQTT I just put it there because I thought that was the simplest thing to do to have it in the same draft but before like I mean this is not even adopted working group document I would like to get it there before we can we think about how to reshuffle things around switching to the gym shop I would like to see a single content encryption format for both versions and not a different one for each yeah but that\u0027s that\u0027s the idea I think it\u0027s right now the draft is written as it only applies to co-op pub/sub and I plan on clarifying that\u0027s not the case but it\u0027s already not the case and another hat switched back to Signum she would be fine with that having one yes yeah just make sure that it\u0027s somewhere where the MQTT implementers will find it yes Kirsten yeah so the question what do we put where and when and so on mostly is a question of timelines and who gets normative reference as to what and so on so III think that should be solvable the question really that is not entirely clear to me yet maybe that also was behind Jim\u0027s question was is the the interface between the second part and the first part sufficiently well understood excuse me is the interface between the second and the first part sufficiently well understood that I would be able to just go ahead and to my 0 mq profile next week I think so if you don\u0027t think so please let me know that means we can improve you we simply have to test that that\u0027s my goal anyway so so I would again asked chairs for so as anyone who read the draft I think Francesca as well yeah I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:14",
    "text": "so also several people who are not present I know for a fact that Gemma has read the draft that Peter has read the draft demo so okay so I think we have who would be against a call for adoption against yeah I guess a draft being adopted against adoption no no I mean I\u0027m asking if anyone as anything against this document being adopted before I start the call so basically if you have something against this talking being adopted go to the mic and explain so I guess otherwise mailing list anyway okay so my guess is well I think there is no need to hum because I don\u0027t see I mean I don\u0027t see any purpose of having a ham here we\u0027re gonna provide we\u0027re gonna send that to the mailing list and so well what I like is that a few more people read the draft and who would like to commit to review the draft once adopted okay we got four okay so Klaus Marco Carson Mohit I think that\u0027s one point is that and anymore please Signum yeah I don\u0027t know she she tears I\u0027m willing tearing her so we will yes thank you okay so we will move for the adoption on the mailing list thank you and and yeah for now I keep it as one document and I hope when we have synchronized with MQTT authors and move forward with adoption we can really discuss if if the structure of having these two parts in the same document is fine or not yeah thank you okay so I mean I\u0027m probably this week or next week I\u0027m gonna start the cool adoption and we\u0027ll see where it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:15",
    "text": "let\u0027s go profile market Lanka this is another profile vase but the transport profile vase in the original sentence like your score profile or details profile and this is about enabling a client and the resource server to communicate using Oscar or grupo score especially at the previous meeting we were asked especially to clarify the applicability and the need for this and to fix a possible vulnerability for impersonation attacks so why do we need this you have group of score for secure communication among group members point is how do you enforce access control a given group member access the resources at another group member in a group and you don\u0027t need to do big things in some simple use cases where essentially being authorized to access a group and get in the group key material is essentially fine to be authorized to do anything at any resource at any group member and you\u0027re just fine it\u0027s not fine in other use cases with we need something more complex and you need to individually authorize each client to do particular things at other group members essentially you want to distinguish different clients per different access rights they are supposed to have practical examples that we improved in the introduction of the draft first example thing of a set a group of logs and you want some class of clients to be able to check the status of locks only while other clients can be able to check the status and also change it so think of different kinds of users like children or parents or especially you want the logs to actually act as servers only so not to be able to open lock other logs in the first place a more complicated use is really the building automation was provided but they problem from botnet there are bug net applications where you may have a class of clients like light switch that are supposed to perform only low-priority commands while fire panels can perform essentially any kind of emitted commands plus set the system at the status where only high-level authorized clients can perform high-level operations essentially you want to enforce the different categories of client to do all the things they\u0027re supposed to do so you need fine-grained access control that you can in fact achieve using ace and that being said then you have a problem because current profiles of ACE don\u0027t enable a client and resource server to use group secure communication even if you consider the Oscar profile you go for it a client post an access token to a server they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:15",
    "text": "establish a no score context they can use Oscar but at the same time they cannot legitimately use group or score as an alternative or at the same time they have to stick to the single protocol indicated by the profile score so bottom line you cannot have together group of score for secure communication and fine-grained access control and for three days and this profile is exactly about fill in this gap it builds over the Oscar profile latest version essentially admits to communication protocols in the same profile or score and group of score assuming both parties are already in the correct Oscar groups so like in the Oscar profile first of all they establish a pairwise Oscar context of course and then the idea is to first bind the access token not only to the pairwise context but also the group context and second to bind the pairwise context also to the group context so you achieve the same properties you have from the Oscar profile plus essentially proof of group membership of the client thanks to the binding between the token and also the group context how is this achieve it\u0027s about slightly extending the messages of the Oscar Pro fellows and essentially and the derivation of the pairwise context so in the access token request the client provides the es also the it uses in the Oscar group the group identifier and its own public key together with the signature completed on something the slide using its own signing key essentially to prove the AES possession of its own private key what the sign well what we are proposing is using something related to that secure association between client and authorization server for instance if they are communicating using the TLS they can assign an exporter if they are communicating using a score they can essentially provide an output from HK DF extract involving information related to the pairwise Oscar context between the two laying around the AES produces well an access token response back to the client that includes again those same parameters provided before by the client and those parameters together with the public key of the client are also echoed into the access token that can be the later on delivered to the resource server this is essentially the outcome of input and discussion with Jim in order to avoid a naughty group member another group member in the same group of this client essentially impersonate is client using the wrong sender ID at least this way you are providing the resource server with an opportunity to check that the public key in the token actually matches with a sender ID that comes in the token in the salt parameter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:18",
    "text": "then your sinusoid derive a pairwise Oscar contest between client or server just like in the Oscar profile considering just a few more pieces of information when composing the parameters that are used for deriving the pairwise contact so essentially the context that is composed not only of the analysis exchanged between the client and the resource server but also of the group ID of the Oscar group it was indicating in the access token the salt is composed also of the sender ID of the client in your group and if not empty the masters although the Oscar group the master secret is composed considering not only the master secret indicating with the token but also the master secret of the group and then the context is just derived according to the derivation procedure of Oscar as an example that of course hides a lot of all of the low-level details here we have a client series for servers assuming all of them already in the oscar group the client asks for an access token so indicating also its own sender ID in the oscar group and the group idea of the group and that information is echoed back also in the access token then the client posts the resource server one exchange if Nancy\u0027s derivation of the pairwise Oscar context as described below well the client repeats the very same procedure to post an access token to our sto and of course the Scopes here can be different in the T requested access token they also derive a pairwise context and at this point well we are admitting by construction in this profile that it\u0027s fine for the client to communicate with the resource servers either with Oscar or with group of score and in this example there\u0027s a first Oscar request to our s1 followed in by a multicast request targeting the whole group so both our s1 and rst that of course is protected with a group of score context so you can enforce fine-grained access control with specific groups with specific scopes as I agree with the tokens so it\u0027s a new proposed transport profile of ACE essentially for having fine-grained access control as expected in ace plus clientele resource servers that can use model your score has only possibility right now with the profiles available but also group of score it\u0027s supported by at least one real world use is coming from back net and we are essentially pairing the group in the pairwise context as well as the token with also the group context this is an update that replies to previous questions comments we got there was meeting now we\u0027d appreciate reviews to this document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:25",
    "text": "this is been kenick so I have to apologize I was just looking at this stuff for the first time like today and I\u0027m you\u0027re generally in favor of fine-grained access control and whatnot and all this good stuff I\u0027m just trying to understand basically why we need both this and the stuff we already have and is it may be that there are some devices or situations that can do the sort of base group communications with us car but they can\u0027t do this or just it takes time longer to develop group score as such doesn\u0027t cover access control it\u0027s just about protecting messages so that can be processed by a group of devices right but you know the work that you just presented is is overkill for situations that could use that but would it still meet all of the use cases that did that would you scale that I could require right in production and one of them is actually coming from buck net where they can\u0027t imagine a problem like this with different classes of clients that you need to do or not do different things so you won\u0027t go enforce this level of granularity for access control so you need something like ace right I guess my question would be more like if we did this document and and like threw away the other one who would be sad which is the other one the Oscar group communication that does not have fine granularity oh that doesn\u0027t cover this that\u0027s about authenticating the client to communicate with the group manager just forgetting the crema the key material to get into the group this is a cluster about what happens after that I say okay thank you I\u0027m sorry for my confusion thank you so there\u0027s no fair lapping at all this is just a continuation of our timeline so today so I\u0027m just gonna ask how many people have read to draft are you cool with her Francesca yeah Jim okay so my guess is that it\u0027s a little bit too soon for the adoption but I didn\u0027t want any comment or anyone and has any what obviously are there any reasons you didn\u0027t read the draft or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:25",
    "text": "it\u0027s long I have to admit okay is there anyone that\u0027s gonna read the draft mm-hmm I hope people on me take all the people on mythical we\u0027re gonna read the draft yeah I think it\u0027s for now it\u0027s a little bit too soon that\u0027s my my opinion but the thing is that the problem I have is what to expect for the next time that\u0027s my okay okay so I\u0027m I\u0027m I think for today it\u0027s a little bit too too early to to to have planes for the adoption or not adopting the draft but I\u0027m I would like that Marco can at least have a clear plans on what he has to do for the next step so so just for the record for from the Jabbar there are two reviews okay actual reviews so and are they happy with the draft or they will be coming they will read the draft they thought they will they come it okay good so I think that Ben is a point we should clarify better at what point of the lifetime this comes in okay yeah yes so I think you know what to do and please update the draft pretty soon so that the people that come in to review don\u0027t forget they have committed and Francesca got the names of the people that committed so yeah so I think next step is to maybe update a little bit a draft but I mean don\u0027t overkill and then I mean more people need to review before we can proceed to the adoption I think that\u0027s the if anyone is find the draft I mean use less I mean they have to stay it as a as soon as possible okay so when are we expected to finish now so can you say a few words briefly about the two remaining drafts yes I was next presenter than was about Ludwig okay but we okay so you can do this one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:32",
    "text": "yes be very very fast yes just a few words this is another restful interface for the oscar group manager this is not intended for candidate group members or current group members like the profile we presented before this is intended for an administrator that as the first thing wants to create those core groups set update their configurations and parameters and possibly delete oscar groups it essentially describes resources in the group manager for doing that and operations on them for an administrator acting as client that of course is to get an access token to be able tries to do that at the group manager first of all the idea is very much inspired to latest intended redesign of the APS for a co-op pops a broker in fact you can see in this picture on the group manager we propose that a single clip collection resource and then one group confirmation resource for each created active Oscar groups so essentially on the group collection resource you can send a get to retrieve the list of active groups or you can send the post to create a group specifying the name and its configuration parameters and we are defining how to default to not specify parameters and the response back will include as a confirmation the name of the group and the parameters enforced by the group manager in the configuration that is possible of course to retrieve the current configuration or update it or to delete the group just acting on the resource specific for that group so interfacing the group manager for the application restful for administrator wrist will create configure delete Oscar groups as far as I know Peter when their stock has an implementation already in the Corp plan to start one in California on the recommendation from Jane we started this as an experimental document so I wonder if this is appropriate or can instead be a standard track document we ask for reviews okay good yeah so very quickly draft basically it\u0027s about being able to get notified when a token affecting you gets revoked so the idea is when token is revoked the client or the research server that is affected by that token wants to know about that and why are we not revoking tokens at the moment there is a draft RFC in off but it\u0027s about the client revoking its own tokens when it doesn\u0027t need them anymore but in IOT space we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:34",
    "text": "think there are use cases where the AAS or the resource owner would want to revoke tokens and then how did the client and the resource server learn that and the idea is when you register a client or a resource server at the authorization server you create a resource and this resource is gettable or get observable in coop by the client or the resource and on this resource the AAAS publishes which tokens are revoked and not yet expired that\u0027s the short version do we need a longer version eventually try to spencer curity question ludwik is it bound to IOT devices or can this notification also be used on the big bad internet but currently it\u0027s defined for co-op so thanks yes you can use it but it would be easy enough to define something similar for HTTP but currently the draft doesn\u0027t okay Thank You Ludwig thank you all for coming and I think the meeting is adjourned so read the drafts "
  }
]