[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "you sure about that? I suspect that would be the result Hi. So It's not Time o'clock. I suspect that we can give it, like, 2 more minutes to get people Wondering in I'll spend 2 more minutes. Recycling the recitals Yeah. Not. Air air. Yeah. That. You have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:12",
    "text": "Oh, that's is They do it there. Fader So that 2 minutes of mercy have passed. Welcome to Medium And The last session on the last day of the last Week. Of the IDF and respite This is the last presentation for the of the note 12 for this week too. I mean, if you're kinda don't see many new participants here. That if you don't know what the rules are, you should learn. There's lots of links on those pages. By showing up here and, opening your mouth. You're bound by them. Where he and the cinemas M, When you participate in the IDF, Behave. Be nice to each other. Or professional disagreement is perfectly acceptable and professional disagreement is not. I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "We have OMBs persons who will Listen carefully to what you say if you believe that. Someone else has Violate this procedures. Meeting tips. Make sure you sign in. So that we can get an appropriately sized room for next time. Well, the broom tussets. Hello. Remote participants, turn on your Audio and video when you have when you're have gotten your place in the queue or, I begin the micros presenters. Otherwise, keep them off. User Headset is strongly recommended. Resources. Okay. In the real business, Hi, must admit that the Uganda here is actually more correct than the Uganda I posted to the page. I haven't updated again on the On the meetings page, it's Document status for top level. Multiple suffixes, which is kind of the long discussion, organizations in a sign history Yeah. RTP media type, I guess, to merge. And, whole concept rewrite. But we now have a deep A moment of silence until someone volunteers to take notes Alexey has promised to do his best. Remember to note that in the notes. Yes. That that's what I call perfect timing."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Settlements So, I believe we have 4 documents that are actually documents Unless I forgot, man, The stop level which has a new version published on Mark, sir. This year? And, When Lars, I got to see that version, he dropped this discus. Before leaving the ice cream, So there are no more discusses on documents. There's haptnix which has been approved. But just waiting for top level. So fix this, we'll go get to that. Send us free. I forgot to send out the message saying This is now I think this has been adopted by the work group. So I'll do that after this meeting. Sorry, Mark. And of course, so we have the question of, Oh, for Actually rewriting The registration document. Now I had a a volunteer actually managed to locate the XML file of the lost ID version, Make one patch to it. I forget who it it was so I have to look it up, but, has started a little bit, but he has not promised to be editor of the totally rewrite of the documents in incorporating all the things that we have done. Which I think we need to do? Top level. Had 3 open issues before the last version. And the It 5. Try to adjust them."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "Unless I get to think that this is not good enough to go forward. The AD is saying that he's awaiting A waiting working group feedback? So I would say Who has read? The old five version of the drafts. Turkish. Yes. Yep. And the I would like to say that sir, Sometime like, 2 weeks from now, given that the Easter comes in, I will send the message to the AD saying that this document is good enough unless Someone has, Read it, claims that it isn't. So Please, please, please, please, please, read it Because, Once it's an RFC, It's there forever. For them, Well, the idea is there forever too, but that's not a matter. What? Yeah. Can you ping them on the chat? No. I mean, the I'm locked out of that computer quitting through this the stickers. So I can't press yes or no. Okay. So we have an easy problem. So suffixes,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "I put in a couple of slides, On the fact that's I'm still unclear about what suffixes mean. Or whether they mean anything at all? They kind of sound like they introduce An alternate representation of or and outdated interpretation of the content. Okay. If that ends in the plus XML, you can display it in the debugger. We could also say that it's a conceptual processing step to get at the end of semantics of it. I'm not sure how to express this correctly. So I have another presentation that is much slightly more optimistic than mine. So I'll switch to that. Let's me see. Services. Is Manu actually here? I don't see him. Part of this. Nope. It does not react. Oh, the keyboard is locked. So computer is fine, but the But, the the the can't get rid of that stupid window. That's alright."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "Oh, I didn't think of that. That's interesting. Yeah. Manika, do you want to talk? Hi, Harold. Apologies. I a problem was having Idaho. Would you like me to take over the slides It I can I can, save to the slides if you don't want Okay? Yeah. There's only this slide. There's not much to do here. Right? So the 07 draft, was pushed out a couple of weeks ago. It really only changed one thing with the specification, which was the main thing that came up. During the last meeting. So that was specifically that structured suffixes containing more than 1 structured suffix segment. Would would would require the the registrant to register all structured suffixes in that, in in that in that area. So so basically, you know, if you had a structured suffix, like, plus food plus bar plus spas. The person that wanted that that media type, including the structured suffix, would have to make sure that Plus BaaS was registered plus bar plus baaS was registered and plus food plus bar plus baaS was registered. We tried it the other way last time. There were objections, multiple objections to doing it that way. So This is the only other way to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "address that. We've, put that out to the list it seems like people are okay with holding their nose and proceeding with this approach, and that address the last that addressed the last issue in the issue tracker. So so that's that's effectively it. The only other open issue that we have is whether or not we want to do an RFC a new RFC with This modification by itself. Or if we wanna hold off on that and integrate that into an line update. To RFC 6838. That's more of a general I think question around how we're going to wrap all of these things into 6838 if we wanna do that. Yep. Okay. Well, I mean, that's pretty much here are the list of people that have reviewed the specification in its variety of forms. We're out of issues. Do we wanna go to last call is the open question? So before I open the queue, Who has read 0 7? Issue. Wow. 4 pizza. Yeah. Yeah. That you have 3 of those Yep. Okay. We have a few people. So that's good. Yeah. So, Mark, Mark Nottingham, so when we started this work, I had misgivings about it. About the meanings of of suffixes and especially multiple suffixes and and how they were being used and, express those, I think, pretty extensively. And then, we decided to do the work anyway. People agreed that there was enough momentum and and and and and and potential real world use that that that That that was okay. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "I Push those feelings down deep inside. Like any good cis white man does of a certain age. And and and and said, okay. If this can go ahead, knock in stomach debt. The recent discussion on the lists, And I think what you expressed just earlier Harold perhaps before Manu joined. Brings those feelings back up. I I I I really think that if we're going to have this capability in the media type architecture, keeping in mind that they're used not just on the web. Which is I think super important and and a big minefield. We need to understand what they mean. And maybe there's more than one answer for what they and I think in the court use, that's true. But some guidelines about what is a good suffix, what's a useful suffix, and what is not, and also a way to apply that knowledge. To make sure in the registration process, that good media, Suffixes get registered And bad ones do not. Because otherwise, I'm I'm I'm concerned it's gonna become, as I've, I think I've referred to it a few times, flare. People are just signaling something that is indistinct and and meaningless. And it trashes out the the value of media types as a touch point for interoperability. So I think we need to have that discussion and document the results of it. And I'm sorry if that makes people unhappy. But I I think it's better for the internet if if we make these things useful if we're gonna do Okay. Martin this. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Well, I Somewhat degree with Mike. But hall of I would like to express this as the glass building fully other than half empty Please To say so,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "I I think depending on the suffix, You have Different situations may make sense to interpret that graphics by itself and and to act in some way on it I think the first or maybe one of the first suffixes that was introduced was plus XML And the idea there was that Janique. XML processes, which would be maybe, XML editor or something like that. Virtist interpret this as XML and more specific software. But act on on the whole at type, type to Adam And so it it really but but That's just for expedited as they can do something with the plus XML. Some other software can do something with some other suffix, and When exactly that, makes sense may very much depend on the circumstances. So I think we should probably ended off, give some good examples. And and explicitly say that it depends on the circumstances, Thank you. Okay. Martin Thompson. Yeah? I was less concerned about this having read the document then I read the conversation. And, Did the use of, I think, the It was probably confusion on the part of the person writing it, but they they essentially said, well, we're talking about Plus Gzip as an option."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "And they said plus bar plus gzip and then plus gzip plus bar, and it wasn't really clear from me, from my perspective, Whether they understood what order things were in, At the time, And that was a bit of a concern for me. I Get what Martin's saying about being able to throw this you know, a document at a thing that only has generic processing capability he's But you can do that. In other ways as well. Like, you can say this is an XML document. Even without the plastics melt subject. Suffix. So I think from a from a protocols perspective and, UCNA GDP, I'm much more comfortable with the notion that the entire semantics of the thing that's being presented is understood rather than some sort of partial processing. I realize this is a point of fill philosophical difference. I suspect that Manu will disagree with me on this point. Because of the whole use of link data, but I am very much concerned with this possibility that something might only partially understand what it is what is processing. Particularly in a protocol context. There may be some cases where where that's not really the concern, but we have tools for managing that. Such as this particular media type means that you use this generic presentation form in your in your editor. I would like to draw people's attention to something that, Theresa O'Connor wrote about, polyglot formats, which sort of plays into this a little bit as well. And, There, we have some interesting security implications to deal with, which is that if you have multiple processes that look at a different doc a document in different ways, the potential for confusion between those different processes introduces some very interesting interpret"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "interoperability and, security problems. So I will send the link in the chat, chat, chat, on that. Oh, thanks. Yeah. This is a long debate that the tag is currently having. And I don't think that we've really reached any conclusions there. Either. So I'm afraid I don't have any any real light to show up showing on this other than that. So may I right. So, I you know, the the the the place this document started was we Worked on the Jason LDs back, and we were told my media type registration the designated experts that we should do plusldplusjason. Which we did And then when we were working on things that use Jason LD that were kind of more specialized documents, we were told, do the base document and then do plus LD plus Jason after it. And then we try to register it and the registration was rejected because people said, well, we don't know what that means. So that Created this specification, and there was agreement to kind of work on it and take it to you know, where it's gotten now, which does answer at least the initial questions that that were asked. I'm trying so so, Mark, I'm trying to figure out What's the Concrete change could be to the specification That would address your concerns. I know we have to have a discussion, but I don't know, like,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "What is that discussion gonna be around? What specific paragraph or section should we add, the same kind of question to to Martin what concrete things are we looking at, or are we just saying there is a philosophical There's a philosophical disagreement here that the group is never gonna be able to thin style. Com. So, Mark, to reply. I've I think I would feel a lot better if there a section in the spec. That explained in in considerable detail, the different use cases for multiple suffixes. And, and, and it And and part of the problem here also is is I think suffixes themselves were without any kind of guidance They were just put there because people said we want suffixes. And so we really need to consider not just multiple suffixes, but suffix is full stop. What are the use cases for them? What are what is an appropriate suffix? What is an inappropriate suffix. Are they used? And then multiple, of course, adds a layer of complexity to that, which needs to be addressed as well. And and and if you can document that and especially the inappropriate side of it as well of, you know, look, look, look, Some people might wanna do this, but don't do that. And then that becomes guidance to the experts of the registry, assuming that it is an expert review registry, and maybe that's another topic to discuss is what's the right level for registering one of these things. Martin? That was a race. Only very only very. I I think really what we're talking about here is is how comfortable are we with suffixes generally. Because if you look at the document, If you look at the document with the eyes that say, I accept what suffixes provide this is a pretty logical extension of that. And Within that framework, it makes complete sense. And I I think it's well written document. It's very clear about what it is. It lays out the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "There's a lot of concerns, but it doesn't address that that question that Mark is talking about is what what is it to define a suffix And and why would we define a suffix and what what does it mean to have suffixes on on media types. And I think I think that is fundamentally the the the key question. The idea that you have a Plus Gzip thing kind of scares me a little bit because it means that you could have plus gs if on anything. At that point, any media type, whatever. And and then we're like, well, why did we bother doing content coatings in different things. So, there's some interesting questions to ask. There. So Let's let's talk about that question. And I'm a I apologize for Ham this having question opened at this point, which is very a long way past the point where I think folks like manner would be happy with an But, yeah, we have to deal with the, the sort of legacy that we've left ourselves. Yeah. Mano again? Right. So if if Can can both of you help write that section? I can take a shot at it, but I'm concerned about writing it and then kind of this continuing to repeatedly happen where You know, thing things keep coming up at the eye. You know, we we we address the issue such are written We published something everything's quiet. And then at the meeting, something new comes up. Like, please write this this extra section. Would you be willing to help write that section? So so Manu, it's Mark again. The the way you phrase that puts the onus on us which I'm I have a little bit of a problem with. I didn't want to include this in the first place. I didn't think it was a good idea, and I tried to express that pretty strongly."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "I am happy to evaluate what is written about it I don't have use cases for doing this. And so whoever has use cases for using self needs to, you know, motivate this. I'm happy to help rights. I'm happy to edit. I'm happy to, you know, give feedback, but I don't have use cases. So we need people with use cases to come forward, and then we need probably classify those. Figure out, okay. Well, these are the things that as community we believe are good uses as suffixes. And and and then I think you know, I wanted to get up and probably can take myself off the queue is after that. And then it's it's not a blocking thing, but after all that, we need to go back and look at the existing registered and probably put some language around them to explain what they're for. And how they should be used by media types because, like, gzip as Martin points out, can be damaging to use. And so we should, as a community, provide ex advice to registrants about when it's appropriate to use it and when it's not appropriate to use I, I, I, I, I'm I'm happy to put work into it, Manu. And and certainly we can maybe maybe a a useful step forward would be to look at the existing suffixes and say, well, what are people using this for? And why And can we come up with some sort of taxonomy there that explains that and and and evaluate that and see where we set that. I think that would be useful concrete thing we could do in a relatively limited amount of time. I'm up in other ideas too, but I guess to answer your question you didn't ask, I'm willing to put work into it. I'm just not willing to advocate suffixes because I don't I don't have the use cases. Yep. Understood. Thank you. So Put myself in the queue, the marker. There's another point on suffixes that suffixes document that, With pretty much concluded that current suffixes registry is a mess. And the current document. Says that the suffixes registry should have a new format with new rules for columns are. No. No. I am a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "It's very fond of saying Okay. If you want to change your guest registry, And it's legacy contents. They want the instructions. And those should probably be in this document. Which, gives a convenient, handle for actually Taking a look at the existing Yes. I've accessed on seeing what the what the metric is for. So that's that's the thoughts. Here. Pizza. This is Pete Resnick. I just had a question. I mean, My understanding is this all started because Manu or someone else had actually a use case that they needed wanted to register Do do we have some answer for them Other than as Martin put it The New York for their particular use case now so they can get unstuck and then we can go on to fixing the mess that we've made because the the suffix problem, the suffix mess is not their mess as far as I can tell. Can Market, Ken, I I recall we had a discussion one point that that, you know, for the ones that are there there's obvious pressure from a couple of types them. Hey, we need to get registered and we have multiple suffixes. We gotta wait for you. And Was it Prague? Was it lens? I know we were in some amazing city. And we said, you know, well, maybe we can do this as a let's try this out while the thing is getting going through the IETF process. I mean, frankly, if if this thing has broad deployment, maybe we should just recognize it and grandfather it in, take that pressure off, and then figure out how to switch things out. After we sort things out if we decide that, you know, It breaks some rule. Well, it's grandfathered in. Just don't do it again. And and to me, that's the important part here. It's not to say no to these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "of people, it's to have some ecosystem health where not encouraging people to do things they're gonna break the Come as Romani. Yeah. I mean, so the this this question for at least the the decentralized identifier work has been kind of floating out there for, Brent Brent would now. I had to know 3, 4 years now. Like, we've been waiting on an answer 5 years. Thank you, Brian. 5 years. So we've been waiting on an for 5 years. And in the meantime, people have just shipped stuff with multiple plus signs and and things of that nature. For verifiable credentials, it's even way more time sensitive. Like, things are already going out into production. And people are already using the the multiple plus signs because we thought that was you know, we we thought we'd have closure on it by now. I you know, if if we don't do this thing, the on the only on where we could actually get a a media type registered is to strip all of the suffix stuff out and just use dashes everywhere and treat everything as opaque. And you know, I think at that point, the at least the community that's that's looking at this stuff loses interest in pushing forward the the the suffixes stuff. So I'm I'm trying to Yeah. I I appreciate the the suggestion. That we just, you know, do something and then potentially grandfather I it in But at the same time, Well, I mean, I we don't really know what implementers are going to do. Right? Mean, if we if we leave the suffixes that are if we leave the multiple suffixes in there and we're and we say, hey. This is being worked out at"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "at IETF. We will register the suffix some point in the future, people are gonna look at that in the spec, and they're just gonna start using whatever media type we said we may you know, register in the future So so in some cases, this is like we we need this address pretty imminently because there are deployments going out with nation states using, like, verifiable and dids, and they need media types, and gonna ship something into production. we're And on the other side of it, it's kinda like, well, we've been waiting 5 years already. So what's another 5 years? Right? I mean, people are just gonna pick something and ship it and you know, it's it will whatever gets out there gets gets out there. For for the specific use case of Dids And VCs, I think there is a very clear set of use cases and a very clear way of interpreting it. For cases like Martin brought up where it's like plus Gzip Yeah. That is like shrug. I don't know. Why people do that? Right? And and now we have to kinda retcon it into you know, 6838. From So apologies. I was a little rambling. I'm saying, you know, people are gonna start shipping stuff. Eminently into production, and we need to tell them something that doesn't need that doesn't mean we need to register it, but it would really be nice to to to have clarity on while we could eventually you know, register. That does relieve pressure. If we can, you know, give the implementation community some kind of, like, this is what your media type's gonna be. And then take however many years more that it's gonna take to you know, clean up the the, the suffix, mass,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "So that seems like here's something that we we could do. Recentlyably quickly. So, Brent, hi. Brent Zundell. Happen to chair the VC working group at the WDC. First and foremost, I I wanna say, we don't wanna break the internet number one goal, not break the internet. I guess number one goal not break the web. We care about the internet too, but It's I'm I'm wearing my w three c hat. I have to I have to keep the keep the things. We just I think the main thing if we could get hopefully from this meeting is what's the right thing for us to do right now? Because we've been trying trying, do the right thing, and we've been coming here and interacting and asking what the right thing is. And We've got this draft and we thought it was the right thing and then it wasn't quite. And so we didn't, We've we've been continuously trying to steer it in a direction that was hatedly by the most people and are not sure at this point what next steps are. And so, like, what what should we do? Was successfully lacked the ball back in Okay. So I think the I think the current proposal on the table is register LD plus Hi. Is it LD plus JSON or SD plus LD plus JSON? And there's a few more media types with even more pluses. So there's all sorts of pluses going on. So, one thing you one thing you can do 5 or it's no. Less than 10. Yeah. One thing you one thing you can do that might Give some clarity. Is actually to write up the registration for those 10 types. Those ten suffixes. Because that would give the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "Okay. The clear use case for and justification for them in the place that we can read and is separate and is needed anyway. Thank you. Thank you. The next day. I'm Yeah. I was just trying to to ask the question. So what's the problem with grandfathering? I think what Mark is proposing is basically Register the 5 which I use, And I don't know. It's saying, don't lose again, maybe. But let let me Okay. This is what I would like to do, I suppose. But, you know, this is how I understand grandfathering. So, the grandfathering solution, you know, you have those things in the registry that will encourage other people to ask for not ask for permission, but ask for forgiveness too. And and if if that's gonna be the case, I'm I'm a little concerned. How concerned I'm not sure, especially if other, you know, VC ish you know, many types come along like, well, they could use them. Why couldn't we? You know, that that puts us in a position. We are mean Pete. You know that. I know that. really awkward They don't know Sure. I'm about that. Actually, so in the registry, I'm, I'm managing. I'm starting to write kind of guidelines and like more, much more explanatory documents to help with that. But, anyway, I think, you know, Manu, if I heard you correctly, you you you said you're kind of at this decision point. You know, where where you're not getting, you know, massive deployment yet, but they're you're on the cusp of it and you need to know now kinda which way to go. If if if I think for me, the the critical factor is if you can describe What value you get from the multiple suffixes in in in Good detail."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "And you know, concrete use cases of it. Look. It makes the the world better in this way that we can understand That really helps. Cause if you're able to it with the dashes instead of the pluses right now and your users are still able to meet their use cases or, you know, and and it's not just well, it sure would be nice in this kind of, you know, little frick away. Ship it with the dashes. Go for it. You know? God, we don't we don't wanna stop you from shipping. But if there's value that's to be had, it'd be good if we understood that to motivate the work. And I know we've talked about that a little bit in the past, but I I feel like we're still not grasping the use cases for these things beyond Well, in theory, you can point another piece of software. And then even if it doesn't understand that, you know, it'll, it'll still understand that. I I think we need more details than that because as Martin points out, you know, there be dragons potentially. And and and I think we need to understand do that. if you're able to ship it with the dashes, ship it with the dashes. Otherwise, But yeah, maybe the most pragmatic path forward is Ship with the pluses and we'll grandfather them in and, you know, have thick, bold flashing blinking. Oh, wait. We don't do blink tags anymore. Things in the registry that says that, hey, those don't you can't get one of those. Know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Nothing. So I don't think we're quite there yet. I I thought I'd say that the microphone said that we can we can conjitate on it a little bit. But if we don't know what a good suffix, is and means and does, then maybe it's just a convention for naming things and the plus doesn't really mean anything. And we can say that. And retire the notion of suffixes effectively. You. People will assign meaning to it, but people will assign meaning to conventions, outside. This context anyway. And we, we can't stop them from doing that. I mean, if you, if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "have named all of your verifiable credentials related media types, VC, blah, blah blah. Then That that establishes the convention as well. People will infer things about them. And if someone else is VC blah blah blah. Then they might like assumptions that are bad or assumptions that are good, but, you know, plus plus Jason could just be you know, plus XML could just be a relic of the past. And we could say, look, It's a media type. Stage. And, yeah, well, it's not quite 6648. But but but but but but but I think it's it's along those lines. Just just floating that. Because that that is one potential outcome of the discussions here. Which is that we we decide that, well, we don't really know what a suffix is or does. Martin. Just. Yes. I just, for a moment, would like to play devil's advocate Yeah. I Mike and Martin Thompson are expressing concerns about the use of these plus suffixes and I I pretty much want to take these concerns seriously because of well, I know Mark and Martin Thompson and I know they have a lot of knowledge but I'm still a bit unclear what exactly the concerns are, And it might be good if they were, well, maybe just I just need a pointer or they get get get expressed a bit more Honcretely, I mean, damaging the internet is definitely not what we want to do. But it would be good to know exactly how, or what kind of concerns there are. Thank you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:05",
    "text": "Martin, it's Mark. I think the link to Tessa's website that was put in the chat. It's probably a a great starting point for that if you wanna point Man manner. Yeah. It I think we should, talk about a test post, I think there are a number of responses to it that it it doesn't it doesn't it doesn't hold water. A number of the arguments that are made there. I I agree that that's a debate that we can have probably on the mailing list. But going back to what Martin Martin said one of I mean, the reason we're doing all of this stuff is that we were told to put plus signs in the plus LD plus JSON media type to begin with. We we started off going like, why can't we just use dashes? And we were gonna have LD Dash Jason, and we were told by the designated experts that we should really be using suffixes. So so we did that, and and that kicked this whole thing off. If we had gone the other way, we wouldn't be having this discussion today. It would have just been dashes all the way through. And probably people would not be reading something into the the, you know, the the plus sign. So one thing that we could do is just say, you know what? Pluses and dashes are effectively the same thing. As Martin said, it's just some kind of, you know, historic notation that we've we've seen, they mean effectively the same thing which is which is they don't mean anything So use whatever you want. I know that that's not necessarily what Martin was proposing. I don't think. But, It's an option. If we can't agree what suffixes mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "can say that they don't dashes and pluses are equivalent. Of I'm seeing Mark shake his head. So maybe we can't. That would effectively be Martin Thompson's suggestion. Just to remove the special The spe special properties are plus. It's not the character. But we got an answer here, Hapel. Yes. This is Hanshaw. I have some stupid questions, and maybe this is, I'm seeing it totally wrong. It says, a couple of few millions of rooms that followed this quite longer, but Yeah. I'm interested to hear about that. So, I read about this pharma structured suffix, RRC a couple of time ago. And my understanding always was there is like, or in my understanding, there is 2 high level use cases for media types in a way. So one is sort of on the desktop. Right? I'm not sure if this was ever extended, but you have said MIME type versus application, mapping which you have when you open a file or something like that. And in my understandings, these initial plus things for XML and so on were sort of designed with that in mind certain ways that I might have a generic XML editor, which can open any XML file and I might have a dedicated editor for a certain Sometimes they'll set. Then there is a second thing of where these media tabs are used, which is probably a little bit overlapping, but also unrelated, which is somehow on web protocols. Like, you know, on HTTP, whatever, in header fields, and these kind of things. And in my understanding this use case, which is proposed here with VCs, somehow is sort of rather the case, right? I'm might not have set as a file on my desktop. Right? So probably is this is And and also I think some most of the risks that are anticipated, I understand are more in kind of situation, right, that I put like a gzip in there, but I also have a gzip on the connection itself or something like that. And not so much in that desktop use case. So First of all, I wanna know is that kind of taxonomy does it feel right for people?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "And if so, that might probably help sort out things here a little because I think if we talk about why was these things created in the past, they were probably created with this kind of desktop Metafa in the mind, and I don't see really a use case for that or where this is used actually on the you know, header level or connection level. But, yeah, I'm happy to learn if I see it. Right and wrong. Hi. They seem to have x exhosed to the queue. So we have Had the 3 different options suggested. That that that that One is to carry on the discussion until we agree on what what the suffix is and what the good surf exists. Document that, We have not been terribly successful at that so far. That's the problem. The second one is to to take, manas, A bunch of media types. I'll say, Okay. We'll register those and then we'll we'll, have the discussion after registering them. And the third one is to is to say This working group has concluded that, plus is not a special character. Yeah. I'm making it This moved. on. Hold Oh, I see. That's out of the room. Mark, not again, again. I think Pete's asked the question, which I trying to get at maybe as less effectively in the chat, which is the really important one, which is if, you know, we just said, you know, upon reflection, we're we're we're super sorry that you got that, you know, guidance before that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "you should just go and use all those pluses, which, you know, in in retrospect was clearly not Correct. You know, would would would would that be an outcome? Would that would that be workable for, you know, would would you go and register that media type with the dashes in it? And that's what I was trying to get at is if if that's an outcome here, that would be really helpful to know that if, you know, we could move on and and and take the the pressure out of this situation so we can step back and say, oh, philosophically, What are suffixes? Why are they here? Do you love me? Yes. Was trying to to get the multi multi answers pulled. And that I really just wanted to see, do you love me in the transcript? Sorry. Sorry about messing up the tool. Manet, Right. I mean, yes, we do love you, Mark. And, the the child here is that we would have to go back and change Jason LD. Jason LD has already shipped got plus signs everywhere. Like, that stuff shipped, like, 6 years ago. So now we need an of Jason LD working group to redo the suffixes or the, you know, the media type for that. We need agreement from that group that that's the right way to go forward. And then we need to involve the did working group and the VC working group and see how this becomes like a difficult thing to to get done We we, you know, I we could use dashes the only reason we're using dashes is because it's been so difficult to get the the suffix's discussion to a conclusion I do think that there is benefit to them that we could documents, but anyway, all that to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "that it does not feel like there's an easy answer here. I think if we were if we were pushed, we would just go with the plus sign for now, and people would ship a bunch of software. And then you know, we can come back and calmly you know, have the discussion around the 3 options that were discussed today and then maybe many more. Hope that helps. So if I can modify a little bit, then what if we said Okay. Let's register those and we discuss grandfather, those, But At least until we figure this out, No more. You know, like, either either use dashes or or pause. Would that be workable? Yeah. Because at that point, then we can probably, you know, the Jason LD working group's gonna spin up again in a couple of months, we could re raise the question with them, they could decide to drop the plus signs and then that could potentially ripple through all the other working groups, which would take a years, but, you know, that that's an option. Right. And I didn't specify exactly what those meant in that sentence. So I I was thinking you know, register the JSON LD ones because they're clearly in in, you know, they're out there and and and, you know, specified and everything, although having a w three c spec spec register, not register media types for recommendation makes me want to go talk to some people rather urgently. And, but for the did stuff, it sounds like that would mean change back to dashes. Is that correct? It would Well, I I mean, we're talking change back to dashes for the did group for the VC group and for the JSNALDEE group. All three groups would have to update all their media types. To move pluses. fly? Yeah. And is that gonna In time, well, I mean, who who knows? Right? I mean, how they're 100 some odd people in those working groups. No. What I'm what I'm asking is said that the JSON expects it all shipped and, presumably, people are shipping software on this. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "Yes. That's right. It's So that has momentum. already out there. I think in the room here, if I can characterize, it's like we're kind of starting to assume well because it's already out there, not only in the spec but also in implementations, it's probably not going to change anytime soon. Maybe as part of the spec evolution of that ecosystem, it might change. But we should probably just go ahead and grandfather register those no matter what. For the did stuff, And for the, what was the other one? The, verifiable credentials. DC stuff. That's still in flight. Right? Yes. But in in candidate rec, going to proposed rec, like, it's So towards the end, people are already implementing and shipping. Sure. But but they're that part of implementing and shipping, which is not broad deployment quite yet. As I understand it. Yes. They're on the cusp of it. Yep. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, and this is that when you talk about things in the internet scale, people say, oh, yeah. We're already shipping and applying, but but not at the scale that we consider, you know, while that's out there. And so if it it it's really a qualitative thing. If if we catch before then, you know, you can go in and make changes like this at the last minute it still sticks, but it's judgment call. That's what we're trying to get a handle on here is where are you in that? Yep. 10 tens of 1,000,000 and it's Yeah. Of of people using it, which is, you know, small numbers and internet terms, I'm In in the VC and D cases? Yep. Yeah. Okay. K. The media type. They're using the media type, not just the technology. So one of the now using the technology that media types unknown right now. So it may be a lot and may not be that many. We we don't have good numbers on that. Oh, the media types unknown. Okay. Yep. So one of the things that we need from Manu, Yes. The list of which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "particular types they want grandfathers? We can't grandfather something without the lists. Just if I can finish up real quick. The the other factor in that, I think, is and understanding of how many more are coming down the because pike If there are a lot and they're gonna want equity with the the first ones, that's gonna be super awkward. And then are used for more for a change now rather than later later. Mhmm. E. Yep. If we can stop What else? Yep. Yeah. This is Pete Resnick. I I'm pretty convinced that the LD stuff is gum. What what are over the bridge and milk that we have to lie in and all that stuff. And I I think manu you're being asked to make a judgment of if we came back and said, but that's it no more use dashes, damn it. That's all we're gonna live with. How much kicking and screaming are you gonna get And I understand what I'm asking it would be good to get feedback sort of in levels of yeah, that's gonna stink, but we think we can do that. All the way to that's useless. It's just gonna happen anyway. And we wanna get an idea of what we're gonna be stuck with Either way, this is our problem, not yours. But we wanna get a feel for, are we gonna have to grandfather VC and did anyway. And we'd prefer not to, but if we have to we're gonna have that conversation one way or the other. So Brent. Yeah, Brent's in Dell. Just just wanted to give folks in the room and listening just an idea of At the W3C, what's happening where and the life, like, these groups, like, the LD working group is probably spinning up in the next couple of months."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "When a working group isn't spun up, it's not really active. Nothing's really happening. There's nobody to make decisions and the group only exists for a couple of years. And then it's gone again. Gone again. The did working group has been asleep for a while. It might spin up some time within the next year to maintain the bids back but won't really have a body of people there to make decisions about normative changes in the next couple of years. VC working group is finishing up its charter. So we're hoping to be done We're hoping to be done by midyear. We'll probably be done by the end of the year. And then the VC working group will go into more of a hiatus maintenance mode. And so the the time to act on a advice and decisions in the VC working group is now the time for LD is possibly in a few months. The time for Dids is who even knows because that charter been under discussion for a year and a half. And it's not even done yet. So just if that's helpful information, Hopefully, that helps. So, I Yeah. I think I got the A poll question that actually made sense to answer. So I'll give that a few more moments to save for The people you haven't touched it yet, No opinion is very much in the lead. We have enough information No. Well, we have be honest. a suspicion to But then the question is Correct. Is it LT suffix or LTE and other not correct. Yep. Yeah. But we could be casual at the end of the week. With all respect to the folks,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "representing those communities in the week, in in in in in the room, I think we we probably should also work maybe through the liaison, and ask the w three see what their take is on this. And feed that into the decision as well. So I think you. No opinion. It might be considered as as not enough information. Yeah. And that's I've carried it. So if I could I could propose something, I can I think what we can do is we can propose we are ripping plus signs out of everything? Out of JSON LD, out of the VC stuff, out of the DIP stuff, and we will just make that concrete suggestion across the board. And see how much kicking and screaming that's gonna create. Because people will have strong opinions, if if we do that, and that will tell us how badly people want these structured suffixes. The only I think the only potential danger here is with the already deployed Jason Aldi, stop. There's a ton of that embedded in, like, 44% in in the search crawlers are saying 44% of all websites have that media type in them. And as long we can basically say, well, the JSONLD media type is plusldplusjasonandalsodashld dash Jason, and and processors can understand that, then then we probably retroactively like, Make this change. Does that No. I mean, I'm I'm trying to force a decision. The multiple working groups see if we can do the simple thing and just use dashes everywhere. I know it's Mark. I I think if it that's a great way to gather data if you do it properly. And, and thank you for suggesting it because that gives us much more concrete data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "it needs to be a there needs to be a serious transition plan associated with that. You know, an intent not to, you know, break things. So, you know, say, well, for this period of time, you use both or or whatever. It would be interesting to see the reactions to that, certainly. So, what kind of timeline would you met. Get data from that discussion. Within a month, probably, if we hit all the working groups with that. Okay. So May 1st. That's, to have a discussion on May 1st. let let's aim for it So so Mark raised the question about liaison. I'm happy to facilitate I think fort unfortunately, yes. I'm very happy to, facilitate, but I think in the interest of efficiency and not having intermediaries in the conversation it would be we be best if I introduced someone like Harold to the write people on the other end of the system and got them to talk directly, then then we have less of the, game of telephone involved. But I can I can certainly help do that? Oh, great. I seem to have been volunteered Okay. Can do that. Okay. We have a Action plan, more or less, But Alex, can I just have a quick Thank you? I mean, I am going to close the queue on this. Yeah. I suggest We don't define minusldplusj as a synonym because this will just cause people will start mapping and, you know, just just say plaplustld Plus Jason. Is okay. Just this one's, you know, and done Yeah. Cha. Yep. Manu, you have the last word. Yeah. I don't know if we can do that, Alexei, but I'll put that on the on the mailing list. Like, when we start mixing these things, we get in trouble."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Right? People start asking questions. The the the the main thing I wanted to raise here is that, If we go this route, Is there any worth in finishing the suffix's documentation. I think at this point, we're basically telling anyone in the future just stop using suffixes, and maybe this document becomes stop using suffixes. Yeah. They exist. You know, already, but Yeah. I stopped it. A short comment for Mark. Well, I'd I'd I'd I'd mentioned it before. I think there are 2 issues here. 1 is multiple self is what is what we've concentrated on. And then there's what the hell our suffix is for. And I think you know, if they're still out there, we we need to address that at some point. Okay. So We have a few Other things in my List of Worries. That The organization's documents and the ID has expired. I think We should just re escalate this, working with elements, documents, And So, And then we show this here a working group plus call for it. After this meeting, I would suggest that this isn't really urgent to get published. You might want to merge that in a rewrite. And while when we're at it to just to it as the instruction instructions to the review to the type review. Matt, So I think last time in in some city we talked about, well, was on hold using that to get some up or operational experience with the mechanism. Is that what you're talking about there? I I think that's a great idea. Yeah. So we haven't come."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "And Another little piece of, ancient history was the RTP media types, registry. Which nobody has managed to find out who made the decision to create it? And then And every every man type in that registry is also the media type strategy. So Yeah. Magnus Westerland, I suggested to Just, update the registry where the column saying this This, media type is suitable for RTP. Yes or no? And delete the other one. Muck, Is there an RFC that refers to the registry Yes. They're not they're not honestly a that the register stuff in that registry. So you just need to leave a tombstone there that says no. Go over there now. Yeah. Okay. So if you look at the registry on IANA, it claims it was created by 4855, but 4855 does not Yes. There is a later document that reminds people to put it I'm sorry. Reminds a little bit of put things in this registry. It's just Yep. So this registry seems to be sing single ad loved. It's just a matter of getting rid of it in the proper fashion. So So rewriting the whole documents legislation document. That's probably a good thing We have An XML. I have an XML file somewhere in my mailbox that fixes One more is use. My contribution."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "So my suggestion would be that we create a repository for it. And say that this is the place where you hack away. But, they do re really need an editor. And the chapter says that we should consider rewriting it. It doesn't say we should rewrite it. So We might want to Talk to the lady about it. 8:80. Wake up. Oh, yeah. So comments about that plan? Yep. So so, create create a repository, put the XML file that we found in the into it. Vicks and call for an editor. Don't see anyone raising their hands just now. So we'll have to take that to the list. I'm happy to work into Not be the main editor. Yep. I mean, Yep. Okay. So we now have Any other business? We have 21 minutes left. You can either just find some new business discuss? Or 21 minutes off. What do people want to do? I am. Hereby give you 21 minutes. Thanks for coming. Hi. Oh,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "Well, our our services print. for I mean, if they're I mean, if they're I thought I think browser's somebody said on the chat they ceded I mean,"
  }
]
