[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] I\u0027m Carlos [Music] [Music] Erik\u0027s looking for you okay can we find a seat so we can get started please the chair stop first with the chairs have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:17",
    "text": "some things to say [Music] okay as usual the first thing is blue sheets we have one clipboard going around please make sure you sign it second thing is we need a jabber scribe and a note-taker we have one note-taker okay need a jabber scribe okay so let\u0027s start so as you saw the intellectual property that you must be aware and the note well okay so the blue sheets are in circulating we have note-taker and Russ will be in Joppa so this is the agenda for today\u0027s session we\u0027ll do some initiative stuff at the beginning and then we\u0027ll focus into them into working with documents the one about ipv6 over dot 11 ocv and then the Primus teaming and use cases document and then time allowing we will have a short presentation and neighbor discovery for ipv6 and another one on TLS using 80s but this is time permitting so on we have one a slide on the liaison yes we got a liaison statement from ITU SG 16 basically informing us of some work they\u0027re doing they this was posted to the mail list a while ago we received it on the 3rd of September they just want to make us aware of this work and if we have anything to say about it they\u0027d love for to hear about it but basically they\u0027re calling for volunteers to participate in this focus group if you\u0027re interested you don\u0027t need to come through us just talk to the ITU directly focus groups "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:18",
    "text": "don\u0027t have the same formal membership requirements as some other ITU activities so if you look at that liaison statement and you\u0027re interested go ahead thank you I think you\u0027re right so short working with status update so we have you know two documents in working group process the one the first one isn\u0027t the transmission of ipv6 over all the yield 2.11 of seaweed this document has been stuck for a while due to some six-month trace issues concerns will see just after this presentation from the authors and then we will discuss how to move forward on this document and then we have another document that is the promise teaming and use cases document that has been through some reviews but we still need some some additional reviews to to make this document move to the next stage we will discuss that later as well so these the status that you can see we are late on on the original on the original deadlines we are very much aware of that we will we\u0027ll see how to actually speed up things during the meeting so on the next steps we will as I mentioned discuss the the review has been done on the ocv document and see whether the human race issues still remain we believe that there are things that are still to be done and we are discussing some some ways of approaching this or addressing this maybe adding some new litter may may help but is still under discussion and but we believe that document is not ready yet and we will need to do some work and then submit to the exhibit but not before the six-month basically agrees with the document as stated in our charter that the six-month has to review the document that we produced these are the first one on the second one and the survey Pro and statement use cases document we got some preview since last ITF million that\u0027s very good because we managed to get something that is a good starting point as actually some other reviewers summation but we need we do need additional reviews I mean this is starting point but we need more mature reviews on this iteration not only to improve the quality of the document to a level that is good enough to for publication but also to to provide some proof that the working room has energy to do additional stuff because otherwise there is no point in having a praana statement document if there is no problem then to be solve so we knew we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:19",
    "text": "really need at least two additional detail reviews so it\u0027s not about typos editorial kind of review but really on the on the on the content of the document before ITF 104 and we need a new version of the document before the meeting and by before the meeting I don\u0027t mean two days before the submission deadline but at least one full iteration before so basically two additional versions before idea 104 otherwise I guess we have been waiting for quite a long time so we will be may be forced to drop the document if there is no energy on this we will discuss that later as well that\u0027s basically it from from our side so let\u0027s move to the next point in the agenda Nabeel [Music] hi this is Nabila banana from Morocco I\u0027m Anna I soak returning fellow to ITF so I\u0027m presenting our draft transmission of ipv6 packets offer i triple e a so 2.11 networks operating in mode outside the context of basics and resets so since the last ITF meeting that was held in Moria the drafts is updated with all recent comments since that ITF including comments from six men working group from Eric and from the human rights protocol consideration that helped us to consider all this statement and to include it in the current version of the draft so as part of efforts of the human right motor consideration Amelia has reviewed the human rights consideration and suggested to remove the reference to that RFC which is 880 280 because it doesn\u0027t need to be listed in the reference as it\u0027s an IRC F research group of documents and its review is meant to be helpful and in no case a mandatory so the main comments that we have received from 6-man are related to impart to the neighbor discovery so the main neighbor discovery challenge were suggested by six men and by mr. eric not Marc they were addressed in version 26 and 30 30 is the latest "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "version that we have the respective change are listed in the changelog so if you want to have more says about all the chances that we have between version 26 and 30 you can just compare the chance rocks so they are in for in in 30 in the version 30 a clarification on the reliability of ND / o CB + / 8 result of 11 links so we added the following paragraph the neighbor discovery protocol is used over eight or two dots 11 o CB links the reality of the ND protocol over 80 so totally philosophy is the reliability of the delivery of nd multicast messages this reliability is the same as the rarity of delivery of nd multicast messages over 80 total TV links operated with bssid so we have at the data paragraph and we are waiting for comment from Eric so ok comment from from 6 miles so in so for the 26th version so we move to text so if you go back to the site so the Eric nutbag so the second paragraph is a sorry second sentence is actually incorrect two things is incorrect one is Andy uses both unicast and multicast 2 nd actually sends multiple messages so if a single message it\u0027s lost its you\u0027re not dead right so the wording here can need some use of improvements the thing that\u0027s important to keep in mind for OCD is that unicast is as unreliable as multicast which is different than Wi-Fi right what people have done on Wi-Fi is saying not ok if you can switch to unicast or better off because it\u0027s more reliable we have ads but but it might make sense to state that fact that OCB because it doesn\u0027t have acts because there are associations even justices badass multicast or is good whatever that\u0027s fine but but you should actually fix that second sentence because I think it confute in you to confuse people okay thank you very so you suggest to rewrite the second sentence in this paragraph yeah to focus also on unicast yes and you could actually weave it in I could suggest some words but okay thank you thank you for your comments back to version 26 of the draft so we moved the text from slack section and from design consideration append this about privacy into a new privacy consideration subsection of the security section as has been suggested by in in the mailing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:20",
    "text": "lists or if M rated the slack and ID section to stress only link locals does can use UI 64 removed the GOP Wireshark explanation or reformulated the slack and ll sections continuing on the comment from six men we added a brief mention of the need of use of link local clarified to text about mark address changes dropped the Dhoni discussion and change title of section describing an example of packet forma for the privacy protections of vehicles which is it has been also comments that we have received from deck and Emilia so we added that paragraph that you can see in the so we need you to add this paragraph in future release of the of the document so it\u0027s it\u0027s basically about the demand of for privacy protection of vehicles and drivers identifies which could be granted by using episode name or areas identity at the same time may hamper the required confidentiality of message and trust between participants so that\u0027s that\u0027s all for deserves thank you okay think reveal so I guess you didn\u0027t get like kind of the blessing from six-month right I mean the last revision has not been reviewed by six month as such so we need that because I I believe that the sixth month will not be happy with the current version either so we need to to probably get another review from them to highlight the things that need to be addressed so I one more thing is like probably also the check with the IPV working group to see if they\u0027re happy with the changes because I don\u0027t see like you know like the closing the loop in the working group so maybe we can probably do like a one-week last call or something not this week but the week after say like okay like you know are you happy with the changes that are being made since the last book in the last call because I think it\u0027s pretty significant amount of changes since the last working group last call so once that\u0027s done probably I\u0027ll do the same process for six month to ship it over but I think doing this in lockstep is probably not gonna work so we can probably close one off and then go again do another shot because I think it\u0027s gonna be very difficult to try to do a last call on both the places at the same time because there might be somebody who might come up like even like stuff like you know Eric was talking about like some fairly obvious things that like shouldn\u0027t be controversial seem to be controversial right like some appendix or something right so I I just don\u0027t want to like you know correlate these two things at the same time so like kill "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "it close off your send it off the six man bring up the issues here again and gone so even if it takes time I think it makes more sense and that way Eric again so two things one I was looking through the six man comments and there\u0027s at least one that hasn\u0027t been addressed which is the paragraph after the nd paragraph that refers back to that paragraph as the motivation for you know mobile IP whatever and people pointed on I didn\u0027t know when this force in the last couple months but that that back reference doesn\u0027t make sense given that you now changed the paragraph it\u0027s referring to so that\u0027s something that needs to be addressed I think in general it works well when there\u0027s email responses saying okay based on what you said we\u0027ve changed this section to this whether it\u0027s six months comments to what I made I have to go look at the diffs to actually figure out what was actually changed right because to change log in the document is extremely brief so I haven\u0027t pulled up the diffs yet to see what actually did change but but doing that stuff so that people can actually see that okay you did change something in response to this or at least you responded saying oh no you\u0027re confused you know we don\u0027t need to change the document okay thank you so that that\u0027s kind of what I was implying by closing the loop right like you know there\u0027s like people don\u0027t know that you made the change like our what change actually tried to make for a given things like at least four Eric\u0027s email right like you listed like you know what are the changes he made but all the six man comments right doesn\u0027t there\u0027s no closure in six-man for the comments that came in right saying okay this is what we changed in the graph this is why we\u0027re not making a change in a draft and so on for the issues that came up there right as far as I know so we have received many comments from six men and we addressed all the comments because it was everything it\u0027s like in the media list with carpentry and Lorenzo Lorenzo exactly so we have answered in the million list you can you can see in the middle so there are some point that we didn\u0027t agree so they were not impacted in the in the draft but we didn\u0027t get other questions from them or comments from them okay okay so we just probably go through it like separate be useful for you Carlos Andres if I set up an issue tracker for this so you can actually keep track of the issues and close them off and and go on because I feel it\u0027s very weird like to get an issue tracker here to go through this like side process to get one but I can get your issue tracker for this is that you think I\u0027ll have I\u0027m not sure the list is so long we need a issue tracker we just compile one email says this was your issue this is what how we address them don\u0027t you think that\u0027s enough that\u0027s fine okay okay perfect so then just to summarize the process will be I can there are some comments pending for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:22",
    "text": "being updated in the drugs right do you guys meet a new version with all the changes that this thing at this point were necessary you send an email summarizing all the changes you made were those comments came from like six month it says it is this a wave we have address a comment if it is a comment didn\u0027t reach an agreement you say like we didn\u0027t reach an agreement so this is still open do summarize everything once we have that we go for working group last call one week in the working group and after that what whatever comments we get and a new version potentially addressing that we asked reg to go to six month again right perfect thanks thank you very much thank you hello this is a war zone from sang-gyun University in Korea the bottom of the slide lists up our co-authors so at least talking about about the problem statement addressing what is next the staff for IP wave if we can and also show the several use cases the actor material meaning we updated the two of virgins so the especially as a comment from volunteer divers Eric and the Turk and prong choice and be sure and Ally yeah okay Amalia okay so except the Amelia that is a human lie to leave you so what is lighted at the human try to point of view so highlight are her the lib you most of focus and the security stop so I tried to address especially privacy issue so I can polish up our problem statement document but other technical part I believe I addressed all so we agreed just a Picasa 3 our key work items that the first one is neighbor discovery the second one is the mobility management the third one is security and privacy so the major of changes is a neighbor discovery I would say pick your neighbor discovery if we Andy so last time the adding node mark he asked the what is definition of a particular link model so this drug we tried to address the link model so maybe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:25",
    "text": "we can discuss this very important the second one is the neighbor discovery based proactive a handover to support the transporter layer session continuty so we can take advantage of Lincoln layer parameter such as let\u0027s see the channel power indicator and also location of our ICU and it\u0027s a coverage so we can predict when the mobile vicar will move out over the communication ranger RCU and the Odyssey also can determine what is the timing to perform the handover so we can take advantage of that information so that is a second one our sort of one is a vicar law on that architecture try to clarify the Cure link model the last one is also our see you on that talk is connected to a vehicle cloud so I will explain one step at a time this figure shows the picture to Architecture so you can see the bottom we have two 7s 7 at 107 a 2 so this figure is very important so you can see the RSU you 1rs you to to others you are sharing the same prefix so we try to construct the multi-link a subnet which means one beaker p1 configured by the prefix announced by RSU one and then he moving to another R to you well it\u0027s a virtual long link it doesn\u0027t necessarily be configure our game because the same muscle in cassava net we tried to reduce address of the computation overhead right because you can see usually our ICU or will be deployed intersection earlier sometimes highway cases of intermediate over our bottle aways most of the cases the urban area the particular people think intersection is a good position so you can see the usually intersection distance is less than 100 meter in the United States case in the case every RG you visit changing new address is not efficient so I envision we try to construct a more technical subnet and then we can allow just a one-time others configuration it will be enough however sometimes another RC you three can have another estaba net prefix so in that case it\u0027s somehow we needed to perform some handover so 3 and I get discussed so mobility anchor this structure similar to a proximal arrive here such as RMA so this one can hinder "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "our different subnet prefix I think that is it some different from proximal variety structure so we try to take advantage of the position of original and trajectory of a vicar because the vicar can equip with GPS navigator so we can lock on our easy positions feed the direction that information really adequately deported to RSU and you can share that information with the neighbor Ric you also it can be poor to mobility anchor so mobility anchor is a kind of control caravan or mobility management so I think this is a new link of model also important thing is secondly the big helicase the communication between picker to beaker shield p2p later than a pre - I and I to be it takes time so we sport b2b or so pre - I simultaneously this one is I think a different from traditional or infrastructure face the wall its communication so we need to support two posts so this figure shows up with two I communication scenario you can see this is the left hand side the picker in peak collateral and the right hand sides are see you in internal network so nowadays the industry they are trying to make internal lateral using Gigabit Ethernet providing some diagnosis or other some sensing for some adaptive cruise control purposes many there are can be generated so we can see this one is moving router okay it is a communicate with another router this is the keep in mind the RSU so this interface is used to access cloud connected to a poverty anchor to take a some internet services over communicate with this vicar another vicar locate he to add another southern a blink okay so we needed to consider this kind of internal letter as well okay our second one is that the beaker to bicker case can communicate each other so in this case we can say one important the application in the driverless autonomous our vicar scenario case we can learn some the control context-aware navigator they can communicate to each other to aware the neighboring vicars also neighboring are pedestrians to avoid conflict or accident so in the case of some application learning some hosted to another cruise control application "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "laying another host within in beaker Network they should communicate to each other so the question is how to provide this kind of communication so that is a different from other existing manner or other some DMA and other Asian area okay so I try to clarify the link model are based on mainly from the adding not mat so the legacy ipv6 a neighbor discovery protocol is not suitable for PQ loyalists link because the major concern is a symmetry in connectivity you can see the VQ okay depending on transmission power also interference in air so one transmission not necessarily guarantee the other a transmission right so a symmetry in the connected exist and also the lastly you can see the multi-link a serve on a case take xu the leech over even though the multi-link a so connect consists of a multiple or wall it\u0027s linked with the same prefix so the how to hinder and also the peculiar case the initial attack Network case even though sometimes within some subnet domain but maybe take disconnected because of a some communication range right so in the case we need to communicate using our seu relay something like that so so this is very different from traditional the IP version 6 neighbor discovery protocol assumptions so we needed to create qualify so as a leader - we have some new features for particular neighbor discovery so Eric suggested are lightweight dat are using a ND optimization from 6lowpan 6lowpan the major concern is energy consumption so they try to avoid nd a broadcast so if some IOT device requires some address prefix case just unicast based router solicitation message delivered and louder can be saved and then handler using multi hub at the ad so in the same way we take advantage of this one imagine you can see the one intersection area 100 over 200 beakers moving around what they try to reconfigure so in that case we need to minimize traffic overhead that is I think important also it moving to another subnet try the idea again is you can say inefficient approach so that\u0027s why we need to consider this one so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:29",
    "text": "single address comparation more technical subnet I think is enough also the handle bar among our seu and the MA mobility anchor can be used support take advantage of our trajectory and the position information over the baker also we have their dynamic topology ARPANET also multi-link a subnet forwarding we need consider P - P over P - IIT bleah so we new consider that one depending on the location of Vickers okay and then let\u0027s move on our mac address pseudonym for privacy so in the case back address a pretty radically change effects address change IP layer so mini hinder okay Sally yeah my name is Charlie Perkins can you go to the last slide just for a moment okay there\u0027s a document that\u0027s just about done in six loads called sixty authorities - 775 update and I think it really deserves consideration here because there\u0027s a lot of discussion about how to have multi-hop registration for these devices as well as you might say some improved verification capability which might come in handy here as well okay so what is it the name hooking up with the RFC number it\u0027s not an RFC yet it\u0027s in the RFC editors queue but I mean they\u0027re they\u0027re finishing it but it\u0027s RFC 6775 - update as a solo document okay sure okay thank you yeah just to clarify it\u0027s an update to that RFC so it has some additional pieces associated with it so but it\u0027s fun it\u0027s the same model right it\u0027s just adding something okay good yeah thank you very much so the MAC address pseudonym case the important thing is current my idea the MAC addresses shoot on in case the change in IP address compact the TCP such as the transport layer session should be the maintained right so we need to consider all that so we can take advantage of existing our mobility management scheme maybe it is not good enough we needed to adding more and also v2 visionary okay is prefixed dissemination exchange very important I explain the previous slide free to be scenario and the mobility management so efficient mobility management simulates connectivity and timely data exchange so we can take advantage of a mobility information sharing or with the infrastructure load our ICU and mobile T anchor and the peakers so proactive a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "handover can be used so I delivered the trajectory page the mobility management can be used okay nowadays every user or driver holding a smartphone over thicker nowadays a desk the system providing the vision system we can take advantage of that mobility information for our mobility management also with that kind of prediction over the vicar mode model T we came for from efficient the da de terre poverty and the handover for active manner there is item very important unique point and also we take advantage of a link of layer parameter such as receive the channel power indicator over our SSI over the outer layer frame we cannot use it so next step is Carol mentioned that we text to intensive live year maybe the three the conduct belly right three and other expert maybe the volunteer about the mobility and some Mary Eric leave you again maybe so we can move out and then we need to reach other and they be moving out to develop some protocol okay thank you okay so for the the reviews so we need to three reviews before next ITF so you suggested three I don\u0027t know if you can do it okay so one thank you provides certainly what\u0027s also mesh well I don\u0027t know if mentioned I was thinking in some it tell me can you take a look at the at the current version of provides and comments as well thank you and any other volunteer I\u0027m Rahul Jadhav from our technologies I have a question regarding the mobility scenarios that I\u0027ve mentioned one of the things that wave has done is removed some handshakes and they\u0027ve updated the authentication scheme at the lower layer just so that it reduces additional additional are td\u0027s you know that I know more and now at the ball layer with 60s 67 75 updates we are going to introduce so what I was wondering is is there any information in the draft which which gives this information that you know this is the hard bound that is kept by the way of standard oh what is okay first ISO your concern is about some security issue no it\u0027s not security so the layer to view has changed their handshake mechanism so as to reduce the number of parties that are involved for certain scenarios right and now we are adding those are tt\u0027s at the bow layer so what I\u0027m trying to understand is is there any hardbound that has been placed by the wave standard on the on what what amount of time can be spent in this this authentication handshake or any other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "handshake that is involved at the I\u0027m just worried that at the hive layer we are introducing those handshake and increase in the time bound you know okay so so it is there any specific considerations that you have done for that particular aspect okay those currently as I long as understand the wave case say they are focused on three to be scenario lighter than three to I so because the handover usually involved with the IP right so communicate with some other corresponding located to some other subnet so but that is exactly our IP way will help or working on that so I think that is a no reference yet as long as I understand okay yeah probably that is a very important yeah you right so I read the draft last time I didn\u0027t see such information but then I tried to check whether such any any any such hard bound is placed by the way.you standards I didn\u0027t find anything specific but I just wanted to know whether you know or something like this yeah okay thank you so Rob oh you\u0027re saying that is more able to set up the time okay so but here we are not talking about the solution approach yet I I know even Paul is talking about even the is talking about the different mobility management approaches we are not sure if you\u0027re going to build it layer to the me you know one approach is RS here routed or a bridge all right essentially in one model you can have some higher-level aggregation K to build a large l2 domain right like today how capped at this right if you keep it very close to kpop kind of architecture that is one we need to look at how that impacts our you know different mobility management scenarios but if you look at RSU as more as a l3 router then what Paul is talking about like a handoffs and all of that in that model we need to say how it impacts so we haven\u0027t discussed any of the solutions so this is just a high-level comment at this point this is because it\u0027s a problem statement document these are all potential problems but yep I think you need to look at 16 or - fix what exactly is a shoe but okay thank you the three yes okay sorry hello my name is Sammy and I understood that I wrote the human rights review that you put to be decided and so I would just like to have clarified for myself which parts of the review that were difficult to understand or mm why the concerns were into are you the Amelia right yes okay so that is very helpful is false only the private issue of in number vehicle identification number issue other synonym I think a very humble I tried to address a some apart but some apart it is looks like they\u0027re not easy to yeah so we can discuss okay after some okay okay thank you okay this is not necessarily comment on this graph but it might sort of fall in between the two graphs and so I realized "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:30",
    "text": "going through the various comments that well one thing that we haven\u0027t specified as far as I know is the base case of the vehicle is talking to one RSU and the second later is talking to another one because it drove down the road right and how does that actually perform today and what sort of level of tuning is needed you know we have these various or a advertisement interval we have ways of setting router lifetimes and reachable time and other things right and I don\u0027t know if anybody\u0027s done any experiment without with sort of current code and see how does this behavior if a new RSU shows up every second or whatever right I mean even if he you you\u0027re not trying to get global routing to work but you just want to be able to ping the default router as you\u0027re driving it on the road right that would be useful test case to see how quickly can you actually discover that there\u0027s a new default router you shouldn\u0027t use the old one because you lost connectivity right and I don\u0027t think it requires protocol changes but at least you need to figure out what sort of tuning is needed here so that\u0027s a lot simpler than this your your mobility management here assumes that you will find out about I\u0027m now talking the new RSU I should stop talking to do block right and I can run my mobility protocols on top of that but you need to find that out in a recently timely manner so mm-hm anybody on experiment for this so actually you know the completest region about the white IP wavy case the other eleven o CB driver and the you know system is not popularly available so for example on my lab purchased Kota Wallace RC you are very expensive so it\u0027s fair amount taken either so I think the alternatively my lab are working in simulation based realistic later-model fading model try to peer out what is the limitation of the current yet existent or so testify next slide we tried to come up with a new some approach for Lincoln model and the neighbor discovery mobility issues so we are working on assimilation so hopefully next the problem eating I bring my student to try to demonstrate what is the limitation away this team protocol right it\u0027s the our proposal so at least the simulation after that we can moving out there implementation yeah I mean we can talk offline about ways possible to run experiments to if okay thank you yeah okay thank you so any additional volunteer for reviewing the document as we discussed we need to three reviews before we even consider going for working group last cause we got to although one is from Charlie that is I just realized that is a contributor coaster but I mean anyway that would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "helpful the other one is for three and any other volunteer I recommended John he also he\u0027s a support yourself okay okay so I take it offline but you need to really find at least two more reviewers okay okay then we move to next [Music] okay this one is try to come up with a some possible candidate for I 2016 neighbor discovery for IP waste bicular network so the Jeong jeong\u0027s Shang and Christian are my student so the introduction so motivation of the vehicle our neighbor discovery is we need to some concrete to some idea so I would say this is not necessarily a solution but it can provide some kind of line for our father moving places so the subjects are handled by this a trapped is definition of the link model for vehicle over wireless links now secondly neighbor discovery optimization with multi-hop tid and the soda was proactive handover with pixel unable discovery in the mobility management last one is our MAC addresses you don\u0027t need Henry so again this is a picture you understand the right so so we try to provide b2b and the P to I consider our merger linkers of Annette scenario so again UK the vicar is a registered through our ECU and this address and actually register into a mobility anchor so this link coverage case the its neighbor castes entry having the vicar\u0027s address information also that address information is delivered to our mobility anchor so as a result another vehicle try to register using this our c2 and our to try to register address here if address come completely happen which means the daily fared okay it is called the multi half deity and then notify and then it tried modified configure again otherwise register so in this mechanism we can provide that one shut tid is enough okay and then it can move in out so mobility point of view we can using the proper IP it can handle okay okay three so when you say register is it like a proxy what exactly is our do kind of proxy so let me show you this one this one so the beaker or sending "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:36",
    "text": "other try to send an S with the rest restoration and then honestly received so first of all it has a neighbor cast it can cache it each address and then using duplicate the rest restoration this one has a 30 ATK / the rester take off look at its the ad table it pretty conflict the case this to address confirmation saying there is a complex otherwise okay is okay and then it can acknowledge okay the assignment and then definitely not okay so so again going back to my earlier comment if you make look at our SC as an access point right and essentially mobility anchors like you know somewhat an aggregation gateway like our Sun controller alright if you look at kpop architecture now if do you still need this kind of bridge you know so if now in that l2 model right how is it impacting this call flow here in other words you know keep everything all the state on a mobility anchor make RSU more as l2 pipe right between our SEO and mobility anchor is just layer to pipe now how does this impact your scenario here so your point is the mobile anchor is a kind of the some the powder-like point try through using the TMS approach all I\u0027m saying is rsu\u0027s just say l2 l2 Oh so currently yeah RSU my assumption is rs3 is the l3 as well so depending on some this is some justice which case probably some louder the behind that the our ICU but the might have finishes RC is at the router see if you deploy RSC every 300 meters right now if I\u0027m going at 90 km/h I think this model may not work I think we need to really really think whether RSU is an IP node or at l2 node and like I think we need to look at the scenario maybe you know building a large l2 domain is one approach I think but but we need more discussion yeah you\u0027re not quite you know understanding how it is solving the problem here but with respect to all the scenarios but what we need to look at yeah okay so okay go ahead address yeah suresh krisshnan so first to like make sure everybody understands this is like a future proposed work item for this working group right we really want our deliverables done before anything like this happens and the second thing that I found confusing I don\u0027t know if other people did is the relationship between this draft and brass young right and they like kind of interrelated but it\u0027s not like very clear how they\u0027re interrelated so I would really recommend that you try to put them together so because I\u0027m I don\u0027t really understand why they\u0027re separate oh okay so actually the Chinese are my draft and showing the my student we in the picture try to merge at the moment that we take a refer to some options but in the revision case that we can merge right so that\u0027s the thing because like this one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:37",
    "text": "uses like option definition or the other draft and they\u0027re a little back and read it to make sure I understand so like I think it\u0027s causing some confusion so take care of that but I would really like not discuss the details just give up like you know we don\u0027t have too much time right so just use the time to like you know provide like an elevator pitch like two minutes of the thing and okay sure okay good yeah so I think there is a main idea and that we can hinder pseudonym and the mobility take out the panty here what are se you I explained the problem statement the document so our next step is once we are finished a problem statement we need to start never this copy for p2p with UI that is my intention this document so to proof of concept we improvement currently we are implemented line now we finished up the basic labor discovery protocol implementation next step we implement our proposer so next the hackathon project we try to come up with so as a one information I also leading some I to another hackathon we seven times hackathon alternates working very energetic we you can tackle it the working guru a Lara you know what interrupt so more than sixty seventy percent are our ad groups so I want bring in energy into this walking or using the deer walking code thank you for your comment okay okay one question or comment regarding this hackathon project we are also a word that I think now will you have some implementation work going on right on the basic ipv6 overall CV with some students that\u0027s correct or not so my question is if you do also you have also some implementation on the basic ipv6 over ocv stuff because if that is the case it will be very valuable you go for this kind of hackathon where you do it some interrup tests on the basic draft that will be very helpful for that draft to to progress to understand what are the issues and then that will be also very hopefully understanding what are the potentiality that need to be improved in a potential future work as shouldas mentioned nothing will happen until we are really done with them into documents so I think we should focus on those two main documents so basically on the implementation of the ocv basic stuff and that will be very very helpful if you can do a hackathon kind of interrupt in the ex idea and if that\u0027s the case we should prepare and advertise so many maybe some other implementations or some other people can join ok but it will make mainly meet the hackathon around the ipv6 oversee the main stuff ok this is noble again thank you thank you for this suggestion we have indeed in the last IES african internet sandwich we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "have done a hackathon and there were three trucks one of them it was around a IP wave so we brought some network cards rated to OCB and it was a successful because we have been able to implement those cards in in Linux and Linux recompile the the current etc and make the pink between two to two notes that there are virtual vehicles because of dot cards and we got some good results yes so yeah I would write a kilometer with novels theme and my lab and there we can take lovely to write and then we can move out what should be first maybe the neighbor is cover option ok ok thank you thank you thank you so let\u0027s move to the last one hi I\u0027m Mira from Kampala tech present to you today the the extension of transport layer security code to support the vehicular certificate at sea and I Triple E certificate so the agent of this presentation I will really start by these currents our motivation use cases of the extension and the extension how it works on terra\u0027s so cooperative intelligent transport system are very very mobile highly mobile system with a limited bandwidth that\u0027s why we are not using knowing certificate unknown security tools that\u0027s why we are using size optimized certificates standardized by each year and I Triple E Etsy is one out of three oh nine seven and I Triple E sixteen oh nine point to the Etsy one is just a profile of the I Triple E 1 so it has the name the same data structure our objective is to make this authentication and to define the topic authentication method more optimize it for bandwidth and the processing time to set for delay sensitive application and to enable client and server authentication in cas network some use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:40",
    "text": "cases for this extension is the upload of vehicle data and the vehicle let\u0027s say log server to log for example to upload it from vehicle to log server and to update the vehicle software and the vehicle configuration also we can use it also for to connect to make connection to cloud services connected on containment and also to connect a client vehicle to to company using daily servers like rent company rent company and car manufacturers and also wireless electrical the electric vehicle charging the extension how we make it really in Telus it just adding a new certificate type to existing types x.509 or a public key and the third one it will be 1609 the two and to define its structure entry structure on on TLS and here I\u0027m describing an example of handshaking where the client search the client is proposing to use X 1609 the two and the server and he gives to the server the possibility to use one of this authentication method the first one x.509 the second one is raw public key and the third one is 1609 the two and so the plant will keep his certificate 1609 dot two for authentication and the server will choose the default one which is x.509 it\u0027s a hybrid utilization of such certificate with x.509 basic cushion so in dot two 69.2 by default there how many certificates out there so there\u0027s one from the OEM break or there is it can provide some clarity on that it has the same it has as an industry as an inn data structure and inside it you can define which profile you want to and Etsy is one profile on I Triple E profile yes it\u0027s it let\u0027s say the general data structure is proposed by I Triple E and Etsy and we can you can profile rust you can define a profile and this general structure so within that profile if it\u0027s I Triple E profile is that like a manufacturer certificate or some other it\u0027s it\u0027s I mean if so it\u0027s a profile so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:42",
    "text": "it\u0027s we verify the certificate in the same way and we serve its it\u0027s the same fields just for example on Etsy some fields are optional are deactivated by default and on I Triple E is more general let\u0027s say definition but on the verification you we have to follow the algorithm the verification algorithm of I Triple E even for HC certificate okay yeah so so here we we define a new value referring to the I Triple E certificate to add it to the certificate type as a client certificate type and server certificate type as defined it on latest tailless FC thank you very much so with this we are done for today thank you very much where are the blue sheets by the way thank you thank you [Music] you "
  }
]