[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:20",
    "text": "unstable connection to the server I dropped okay hello good afternoon welcome come in fast and your seat belts put your phone to silence please appreciate it so welcome to six man working group I hope you're all in the right room where else could you be so we have busy agenda so I'm trying to start on time and be quick so we have more times more time for presentations first of all note well it's just Monday so I guess you have not seen it yet no okay take your time check it remind yourself about good behavior here be nice to people um well you read it right so housekeeping I have few minor requests please even if you are in the room try to use the inside tool to join the queue it's much easier for for the chairs to track the order of people in the queue if you are all in the virtual one because otherwise it's pretty hard to remember who was the first and after you asked your question uh made your comment please leave the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "when done and state your name so the minutes taker thank you Michael I could correctly record your what what's going on okay so e I okay yes and the remote participants please keep your audio and video off until you're actively speaking which means you is representing or you're as a short sense of you uh recommended to use a headset but well up to you so agenda as usual we're gonna start with working group documents we have 55 minutes allocated for that so it's a four drafts including uh Trump's draft which has been revived some brought it back from there we discussed in Hope by whole processions and again extension headers I love this agenda uh SRC admitted identifier draft and Retail information in extension headers again then we have six individual drafts I'm not gonna read as a result out loud you know where to find that gender right we have two talks in time permitting category which means yeah if we will be very efficient today and have additional time we can discuss two drafts if not authors would like to get six-man attention on them so please check them out anyway uh what happened since Philadelphia oh we published an RFC congratulations on MTU Hope by hope option we are making"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "good use of extension hiders finally right we're finding use cases for them uh application for alternate marking and now in RFC editor skill finally so should be published soon and your uh Zone identifiers draft it's going through another round of review we finished ATF last call uh got some good comments and now we have request URI review and uh w3c review to get more eyes on the draft so it's basically what is going on okay yeah sure again you're getting the same right so it's not just me okay and Sharia should be presenting his draft which kind of out of the working group last call but we need more cooperation with spring people so we'll talk about that later uh we have a working group docky okay sorry let me try another SSID V6 doesn't work right Ah that's called dog food I don't know 2 000 probably right V6 a pv6 is hard let's go shopping okay now where was I yeah so work in group drafts uh four of them are presented today and there is a one draft which is still a work in group draft but we have not heard anything from the authors no updates so we don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "know what's going on there and the last thing as you might have noticed we are talking a lot about srv6 in this room as well so we started to think how much can we duplicate the work and how shall we share responsibility between two working groups here so just to let you know there is an ongoing discussion between a six-man and spring oh so it's not V6 I dropped off and I was on dual stack SSID okay so we're talking about what shall we do because obviously srv6 has something to do with IPv6 so sometimes six month involvement might be required however the question is at which stage and how much of that involvement so the current proposal which is still under discussion is that maybe spring should be responsible for srv6 work and after a particular draft gets enough interest in Spring I use the word adopted but not adopted in ages Millions but just get enough interest and looks like a problem to solve and if six month review is required then spring chair could talk to us and this working group might take a look at the draft this would uh that would allow us to avoid the situation when we get in a lot of spring srv6 related document here without even knowing if the problem is worth solving from routing perspective so that's all I have any last minute comments agenda version complaints no good so the first presentation is Bob you know go there okay I'll share the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "strain the pink box I don't know do you want to sit down Bob oh hi I'm half of Bob and Corey I'm Corey um this talk let me get stable with my glasses this talk is about the hopper hop-up option processing draft like side please so we've um progressed this to RAV4 there are some open issues we'll talk about with in the data tracker there's some data about hop by hop on internet paths and there's some comments on what we think are the next steps so first of all the changes changes from zero one to zero four um we wrote quite a bit of things and we didn't change the the overall goal but we provided much more Separation on the difference between hardware and software processing trying to avoid this magic fast path slow path term um which we think we now have done we cited the 2015 survey in RFC 7872 um we've also cited the ietf V6 Ops hot by hop draft which clearly is related to this whole whole subject of how do you get hot by hop options through the internet and we added the security considerations text which we had pending for a while and I think that that now is ready for a comment for anybody it's now in the end of the draft in security considerations and there were various improvements by editors and various people who commented on the list thank you ever so much for doing so please do read it please do comment anything more about Bob"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "nope okay um um yeah um the intent here is to get the hop by hop options in the hopper Hopper extension headers Deployable for people in the network so they are not filtered but actually passed in a way which will let the network evolve to make that happen we have to use some keywords like should a must and it turns out that even people who've written lots of drafts in the past find it hard to balance the use of sugar must when it comes to this particular draft however we've done this big rebalancing and I think we are really at the stage where the text we will propose today actually matches um something sensible so read the draft not this long list of should and must um well let me interject one minute uh with my chair head on so the IHF requirement is everyone must wear a mask in the room unless you're speaking so if you're not wearing a mask please do we have some up here so thank you uh it's a Dev teller yep I'm right here um Dave do you do you want us to talk a little bit further because this list is kind of awkward uh no my only question is is the wording up there literal or is that a summary of what's in the document um I think you should read the draft for the wording for the should some musts because um this yeah this is very context dependent um it appears very easy to say should a must but when you're talking about a draft work oh well I'm not doing this can I take the question later David uh sure I'll tell you what my question is but I'm fine for if you don't answer it or whatever which is just uh some of the wordings in there is um very vague like low and reasonable"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "and those are things that one would normally never use in a statement with most or should because it's too ambiguous nobody knows what low is as to whether you can meet the shoot or not nobody knows what reasonable is who would never use those and I should or must thanks no yeah all right okay comment on the use of low okay got it understood thanks that helps um next slide then um we had used an issue tracker we kept careful um tracking of the various things um we believe that um when we came to process the last set of issues that only two were left and the fifth one is to try and get the Shoulder must balanced such that high-end routers might not support hot by hop options and the text has to somehow balance this out we're still expecting them to do so um when they're looking at these options the use of fast-pass slow path fast and low and high end whatever else are still things that we have to get right but I think they are words where we'll have Precision but they'll be hard to get exactly precise and we think both of these will be addressed in revision zero four so that's why I was encouraging people to read the draft okay let's go to the next slide do you want to grab a go Bob for a second I don't know what I I go okay and so what are the key differences in the eh limits draft there's a related draft and everybody knows that um by hop options are carried"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "in the extension header the extension header is one of a number of extension headers that can be present and we now have an ietf six-man work item on the extension header limits limits give more guidance on how to handle more than one options the anode can process so clearly this is a slightly wider context than the hot by hop processing draft both drafts recommend using zero zero bits in the option type to become the default in other words not to be under the misunderstanding that every router on the path is going to look at all the hot by hop options and the first one who says Ah I don't like this is going to give you an icmp message what's going to happen is really the processing that happens when you set 0 0 in the option type field and therefore we are going to propose in our draft and that these every option type is treated as if it were zero zero by default both drafts say that variable length options are difficult to process and this is true and the eh limits draft is much more specific and we could talk about those in the eh limits talk there's differences on terminology and we all know that fast slow full low high forwarding rates Etc are difficult to get right and probably it's going to be important to find words we can at least live with for both drafts that were consistent um one of the things we've suggested on the list was adding text to our out of order of processing and the reasons you want to avoid having an option header causing a packet to be delivered out of order we believe that's a very useful thing we propose to add that text to our draft copying um this that's been already in the eh limits so next slide right some recommendations let's get to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "the what we actually plan to do in the next edit cycle the hop by hop processing draft we think should Define the hot by hop processing element and should not look at the number of options in the hot by hop header so eh limits drafts should reference it we should reference the document that we're editing and we think they should cite the text but not Define how the hot by hop options are processed what we're trying to do is separate out description of the hot by hot processing which is done by nodes from The Wider eh recommendations some items we think should be brought into the hot by hot processing draft discussing how to order packets and everything to do with nodes everything to do with processing along the path not at the end point the eh limits drafts should continue to define the total eh limits and we don't propose to elaborate on that so I think the right place to do is to provide comments to the document that Tom Herbert's editing to describe the extension header limits rather than discuss them in the hot by hop processing draft so in this way we're hoping to disentangle these a little bit and let the hot by hot processing work continue with the rider remit of how the extension headers should be processed in general and set up by the endpoints next slide please other proposed changes are well I think I got there a little bit but I really the purpose of this slide is to bring down that text at the end this is the text that we have derived from that list discussion which we would like to put into the next version so nodes should process the hot by hop option header if they do not then a node"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "must forward the packet normally the word normally but it's probably a good choice to suggest that you go through all these little steps that you do when you fold a packet because there are quite a lot of steps and we can't possibly enumerate them but nodes must do that normally when the hot by hop option header is not processed not drop when processing the HotBox option header nodes must process the first hot by hop option our nodes May process more and we weren't going to expand that and leave Tom Herbert to make more um overall overarching and discussions of how big an extension header you might like so this was our proposed resolution of separating these two drafts and coming up with something which satisfies we hope the discussion on the list does anyone wish to comment on this because they think it's something useful to comment upon right um next slide them oh yeah good I I hear Ron's in the kid could somebody represent Ron hello gory hello can you hear me yeah we can hear you it's good to hear you good to hear you too um reading through your draft and um Tom Herbert's draft I read through them both assumed that they would both become rfcs and then said to myself okay if we had known all this stuff five years ago when we wrote 8200 the section on options and the section on the Hop IHOP extension header might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "be different but it was a bit of a task to figure out um you know how they might be different would it be a good idea to merge your draft and towns and um in that draft just put replacements for that section on um options in the section on hop by hop extension headers so the synthesis would be done by the authors as opposed by each individual reader possibly I I think in the as as Tom's being starting to formulate his extension headers um ID um he's maybe created quite a lot novel overlap which we didn't imagine would be there and part of the talk today is trying to pull those apart so they are not too different documents talking about the same thing but they talk about very specific topics so I think you could have two documents that exist that talk about specifically just the hot by hop options and have everything that's normative about hot by hop options and one that talks about extension header construction and handling and so I think these might be okay in separate documents perhaps because they probably have different readers the extension headers part probably mainly refers to people with Nicks and then stacks and people are implementing IPv6 as opposed to people who are doing routers or routers who maybe are more interested in the hot by hot processing so I don't know if that answers your question because I think clearly what you propose could also be done so we could do what you say or we could try and keep these two documents as two separate documents um Bob do you have another comment on that one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "yeah I'm pretty much what you said I I think for now I think they're better to be separate because I think we're approaching this in a different way but they clearly need to be consistent and and they need to refer to each other appropriately and I guess the second part of your question if I understood it was and should we try and do normative changes to the h200 by saying this block of text is updated by this block of text is that what you're asking Ron okay other people in the room think think Ron did ask that so Ron can come back if he needs to um yeah the extension header draft does talk about here's a section which talks about changes to 8200 so it's pretty close to that okay the changing the block of 8200 once with the intent of both um drafts would make would put the task of synthesis on the authors as opposed to having each um reader synthesize the tool and figure out what 8200 would look like had we known all this stuff five years ago I'd also like to comment that there are some folks like plms from router companies who need to read and Implement both so it makes life a lot easier for the reader okay understood we will we will think about this Suresh yeah thank you thanks Laurie um so one of the things you throw up as like uh the first option um you need to look at it right so I just want to point out like nothing against or for it right but it's a certain change in how we treat Hub IHOP options because you they were never treated us ordered and I know like we talked about this quite a bit in connects right like we were throwing this as the first option there's no special thing for first option right so I think I just want us to be cognizant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "that we are actually making this change that like you know first option is somehow special and the second order effect is like there's going to be options that are going to be jogging to be the first option right I just want to make sure that it's noted somewhere because like I think this becomes like a privileged place for an option to be so I just wanted to know that somewhere yeah and I think that's fair enough I think also that means that um putting the option on every packet may not be something that you should now do because um that means you've kind of trumped everyone else exactly there is like some text in the Conex V6 action draft like media and I did like so maybe we can try to at least in an older version so I can actually try to dig up something to give to you right because that is really a worry something thanks so I'll be really useful thank you okay I wonder uh otherwise this additional information in fact we when we deployed this the IPv6 the enhance the Innovations such as the srv6 and IPv6 based on network slicing in the existing Network so that we also encounter this issues about the process of this hobby header and the definition of header and also the process in the uh processing these options in these headers so in order to solve these issues we propose the one draft that is to use this protocol extensions to the vertex this information about the capability of the forwarding plane to process this IPv6 using header and options so I later I will send this one for the uh for the comments I also would like to align this drought with this some of this in capability and these procedures of this draft okay please please do send it to the list yeah and we will we will discuss this okay that'll be useful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "we should yeah and that's like and next slide so this is a two slide picture from an iepg talk which is in the proceedings so what's done by Anna uh Aberdeen and basically it's doing the exploration of which packets might get through the internet if they had extension headers applied to them is there a limit on size because um people talked about the size of packets and mattering and we have traversal rates for extension headers of different sizes and we have hot by hop in black and destination options in blue and you can see the traversal rate for Destination options on the tests we did across the internet if you want more look at the iepg talk this is just a teaser where there's a lot more data from Anna and other people um but basically gestation options get through a lot more than hot by hop options not surprising hot by hop options do get through this difference between TCP and UDP if you want to tell us why that would be fun and not necessarily the mic but do catch up with us and tell us what what you think about the data but basically um extension headers with hop options which come to a 40 byte extension header appear to get through just as what just as well as any other size so we can easily think that one header will get through reasonably if you're going to formulate a big header chain then the probability of successful transmission reduces uh why 40 bytes I don't know if you make routers or routers or firewalls or whatever and know where this number comes from tell us um it helps to be the same size as an ipv4 option header so maybe people think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "that's okay what part of an IP ATM cell or whatever I don't know but 40 bytes is okay so um everything we've said in our draft appears to be good for this next slide then then the question is where on the path do things get dropped and a lot of the packets that carry out extension headers um get dropped pretty quickly as they're sent from a home or ISP um Network as they get to the first as most of the drops that occur will actually have occurred um maybe on the first top second hop so the packets don't make very far into the internet when they don't go um so those packets that are dropped are dropped very quickly probably by policies I would imagine which is probably the reason why we're writing this draft to say please don't have this policy um much more data in the big talk I'm conscious of time but nalini is asking a question and uh is definitely the right person to ask a question which you can reach the mic that's right that's right hi Melanie Elkins I'll just I'll keep this really short but but our um you know while I understand we're not the protocol police um there it seems to me from our testing there's a few organization a handful of organizations in particular if they would change some of their behavior we might see uh you know the 80 20 we might see a great deal of improvement so thank you for all your testing and that's why we had to talk at iepg that you might want to look at particularly if you run IPv6 networks which you should next slide please um these are things we learned some parts do support by hop options it's not the game's not over there's a chance of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "using this and you have to choose a path try it and see if it works um ready currently drop packets with a hot hop hop extension header and that happens very early and some people are much more prevalent at doing this than others limiting the size of accession header did improve traversal so one expecting one hot by hop option to get through is much better than just saying an arbitrary number as we did in the original IPv6 spec so we think the recommendations we've made in the hot by hot processing draft would seem to help and final slide we have always to get the language right we think the current drafts much better we're about to push a new version um there's work to align this with the eh limit draft um whichever way we go we have to get the language correct we have to get the dependency correct we believe the dependency could follow what we've outlined in this talk um we listened to Tom's talk afterwards and then discuss with him we think this could go to working group last call soon I am personally um as one of the editors not sure that we need to wait for the eh limits draft to complete before this is working group last called I think we can with a reasonably high probability um separate the two and complete this first item of course if we go for runs combined item then we wait for them both to complete at the same time so I'm hoping to go for working group must call probably in one ATF cycle if we can and that's my presentation I guess here we can we can cast a last call situation after we are because we just slightly Ryan uh late okay so Tom"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "yes can you hear me yes we do I'm sharing the slides just a second okay go ahead can you see them yes uh so my name is Tom Herbert and I'm going to talk about uh the other draft um about extension headers uh next slide please so status uh is working group item um there's been some less discussion um mostly inspired by Brian Carpenter I'll touch a little bit about that uh similar to the hop by hop processing um we think this is ready to go to working group last Callison um would like to see more activity on the list so please read and provide feedback next slide so uh we have version one uh the changes were relatively minor uh there was one changed in the padding uh previously it said no more than eight bytes but really the maximum amount of padding should be seven bytes that guarantees that we can align any option to a fine alignment um we need to correctly reference rc8504 instead RC 8200 the default limits intermediate destination off for processing options is 16. uh so 16 is based on pretty much all the nodes where we wanted a on receive we need to have a default limit to how many options they really should process and the 16 is actually both the padding and non-padding options and other than that there were a number of edits in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "so I did the comparison with um processing Corey went over a lot of this so I'll maybe give the perspective from the eh limits draft so first of all I think the focus is different and for that reason I do agree that these should be separate drafts the hubby hop processing really is about processing The Hop I hop options and and that seems to be guidance directed towards implementers or routing vendors in eh limits it really is about requirements we want to provide specific numbers specific limits most of the draft is actually that it's a very specific requirements it goes down into some of the details of extension header processing in particular for Hoppa help options and destination options it enumerates all the limits about padding number of options the possibility to set length per option so it's very much on the on the side of what are the limits uh what we don't do when the age limits draft though for instance is discuss the Fastpass flow path split or any guidance around actually implementing this also I think there's less of a distinct we distinguish less between high performance routers and other devices what we do distinguish though is there's a requirement specific to end devices host devices by sending and receiving extension headers as well as intermediate devices how they process that um and also for Destination options we have a concept of intermediate destinations so the requirements are based on the role in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "network not necessarily the the performance or the goals of the rule so I think the requirement there is from our side is keep them as separate documents I do think that the limits are important such that the hopper hop options could reference the eh limits document so the second difference um that's where we talked about nodes must process the first hop-by-hop option in um HP hvh processing uh it looks like that's going to be relaxed a little bit but the difference here is any age limits the first option really isn't special the idea is that a device can set a limit how many options are processed and these options in our processed must be in order starting from the first one so for instance the default that we recommend is intermediate nodes should process up to eight hop by hop options uh non-padding which means when they receive a packet they if they process hobby hop options they should um by default try to process the first date but they can process any number between 0 and N so zero is the RFC 8200 recommended or guidance that allows that and would be some number of contiguous hop-by-hop options padding and non-padding and that would apply to both Hoppe hop and destination options so then once we decide that we only process part of the options or some of the options and not the full options the question becomes What Becomes of the rest of the options so happy hop Ops processing says that I know it may process the first one and skip the rest and eh limits I think we're a little more specific uh the node can process the first n"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "padding and non-padding options or the first and non-padding at least and then for the rest uh they're ignored beyond that limit but that is only at intermediate destinations the Final Destination the behavior is a little bit different the destination host and I believe this is consistent with RFC 8504 can process the first n options as a limit but if there's options beyond the limit the host must drop the packet the rationale there is unless the host processes the full list of extension of options it wouldn't know if that's a malformed packet so the host does have to process all of the options what this means is in practicality is that uh even hosts are going to have limits for instance we can process hundreds and hundreds of options in a single packet efficiently no one can do that that also be the only use case has a denial of service attack so we think that the host does need this requirement and does need to drop when the limits are exceeded next slide please some other differences in hopah hop processing Source node should include a default single hot by hop option so when sending the idea is at the default and how to help processing seems to be send one and maybe more in eh limits we described it a little bit differently we recommend sending up to eight non-padding options as the default the rationale here is that whether or not one or zero is sent is a bigger difference than sending more than one especially if we allow intermediate nodes to ignore options past the first one that means that the only thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "special about the first option really is the fact that it it's the most likely to be processed but in environments where the source knows that the path can handle more than one option or has a need to process more than one option there's really no need to to limit it from the sender with the assumption that intermediate nodes uh don't care obviously when we start talking about the limits of the header chain this would be relevant but that's actually a separate separate topic how many bytes you can have so I think the limit is requirement here is assume the eh limits we don't necessarily want to try to limit things to one option even as a recommendation I'm worried that that's going to be an extensibility issue and besides that operating systems really aren't designed to enforce this sort of limit anyway uh the last major difference is around the area of how big extension header chains can be how by hop options um gives this guidance uh should not hobby hop option should not be a variable size that can extend beyond what can be executed in a fast path eh limits is more specific the current limit that we're proposing is 64 bytes maximum of extension headers uh the whole IP V6 header chain fits in a 128 bytes um as I said on the chat that's a little bit inconsistent with this data that shows 48 bytes are um commonly able to be transmitted so I think that's an interesting question why 48 bytes um but the rationale here was devices should be able to parse uh with a parsing buffer of 128 bytes and that would fit an Ethernet header or IPv6 header"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "and the first eight bytes of Transport header plus 64 bytes of ethernet um of uh ether extensioner sorry so I think we do need this um requirements probably are appropriating age limits but obviously there's maybe some discussion on what the actual numbers next slide please uh so that's uh all I have for today thank you yeah we have two people in the queue and after that we close the queue because we Sorry slightly run out of time Gore uh okay if we're shorter time I think we could take this to the list but clearly Tom it would be good to work with you to get a coherent set of recommendations for both drafts yep let's do that hi Tom this is Tim winners um QA Cafe so 80 8504 has text are you planning on updating that text is this draft going to be an update of that or is it essentially the same I'm gonna read it in diff the two but uh that was my other question here is if you were actually trying to update General node requirements and what do you wanted to do about that I I think it does update 8504 so I wanted to make that um put that label on the draft okay thank you Tom thank you thanks next slide thank you uh so the draft completed last call in six months so I think it's not officially closed yet right Jen so there is some comments like uh pending from Spring and I have a slide to talk about it but thanks to everybody who commented"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "like I was actually pleasantly surprised how much we got like especially Adrian thanks for your review like that was like amazing there's quite a bit of stuff and and a lot of it has been around tightening the language so like we um so I was using like language for routing and forwarding kind of interchangeably and um that could be read from somebody from the routing area differently than how we would read it in Sixth Man so I think like it didn't kind of helped quite a bit in tightening the language around it so that's been done so like pretty much all the comments received during the last call have been addressed and there's like one uh specific one I had to call out like Edward Metz it came like a week after last call but I think it's still worth addressing but I didn't want to do it like one day before the uh submission deadline to just rush something but and that's something we I should like address after um the ITF complete right and and the key thing to sorry okay I can just uh talk to Jen don't worry so um the the key thing is like to talk about the prefix that's getting allocated to say it's gonna be optional okay I think people are trying to read my lips so I'll just go so um the key thing is this use of this prefix is optional so nobody's going to be forced to use this prefix and um so that is I thought it was always understood from the draft that is like getting a prefix for use for somebody and but people had like specific questions saying hey should we use this for Sr all the time right so that is not the intent so I'll add in text in there saying this is use of this is optional so that's going to come in but I'll circulate the text on the list before adding anything like that uh but the point is right by allocating this prefix like nobody's going to go ask for a prefix just for doing Sr I think that is the goal of doing this and um a couple of days back just before the ITF um I got a mail from Ayanna along with the chairs and the ad so this is awesome right like this is like an amazing process that Ayanna is actually doing earlier use of drafts for Ayana things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "and I was like really presently surprised so thanks Amanda if you're like you know looking at it so I just put together a straw man proposal for how the prefix is going to look in the special purpose registry and if you look at it it's it's very similar to what Ula does okay so the um the it's a forwardable prefix so it means it can actually cross a router because as long as you're in a domain um the the router should be able to forward it so it's not like link local so that is really what the forwardable thing means and the globally routable is false because um there has been actually some proposals during working group last call uh which said like oh we should like make it centrally registered and we allow it routing but I don't think we started off with that intent okay so if somebody wants to discuss that that's fine but I don't think that is what this trust got out to do okay so this was like for somebody to use it on a best case basis inside a domain so we don't really want to have a registry or like make something that's like globally unique going forward on this so Maestro man proposal again is like globally routable is going to stay false and the protocol field is false as well uh I think it should be like one thing down but moving to PDF got rid of it but the protocol field is false because if the protocol field is true then all IP compliant implementation should support this Behavior so which is something we don't want so like it's going to be false in there so this is the proposal of course it's going to go on the list as like a discussion Point as soon as like spring completes their review of the issue list right that's in the draft um next slide okay so um so I'm going to put in this like new text I'll circulate the text for adding this prefix use optional thing just to make sure that it's it's clear to everybody and I don't miss anything obvious in there and again thanks everybody for like committing during working with last call that's like I think we got like 15 or 20 comments like it's amazing for like a short draft like this and wait for the spring conclusion to move the issue list from here into the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "cset draft like we can take it out of here but spring has to pick it up because it's we don't want it to get lost in the cracks somehow and um I think Jen has already sent a reminder to the spring chairs to kind of close this right and so the comments that are actually received I think like droops and something there's like two or three people who commented from spring on this who said like it's fine to move the issue list but as long as there's an official conclusion from Spring chairs I see Joel back there um so if spring concludes that the issue is just fine to move over then I think we can close that part of it on the draft so did I surprise you exactly yeah so as long as it's done then we can just like close this draft so open for questions but to clarify so we're basically waiting for spring to decide what to do here on that we're waiting for the spring working group to decide to what to do yeah so so there's like section 4.1 in the draft right it says like the spring needs to do these things so that needs to just move over before we close the draft Lawrence of are you going to say something okay okay so there's no comments thank you very much thank you so much we're back on time yeah okay uh today I will do the presentation about carrying video information in IPv6 extension header so this is regarding the network slicing or this is called the network resource partition in the teeth working group okay next slide okay so here this is the background so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "in fact in this draft is introduce a new IPv6 uh how about half option to carry this network resource partition information in IPv6 packet so that this can use by Network nodes to identify the vtn the package that belong to and forwarding the packet based on the resource indicated by the reading identifier so the meeting option can be used to ipv ITF or network slices and maybe could also be used in other scenarios so this this topic has been proposed in the past ietf meetings so that they think about how to uh use a generalize this waiting option so this chart this presentation we will focus on topic so next slide next yeah okay in fact in the teeth working group we propose one draft is discussed about this the possible generalized generalization uh use cases about the ietf network slicing so that from our point of view in the existing uh the IPv6 waiting options because we have the flag we also have this video resource identifier we can use a different flag I can generalize the written resource identifier for different purpose so that means existing the mechanism of this option can support the generalization but the most important thing is what's the use case and how water identifier can be generalized use this uh this existing Vision resource identifier so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "this this draft in the teeth working group we talk about the possible user cases can be generalized based on this the waiting resource identifier it including the possible that used to indicate the topology is used to indicate the resource not only for the bandwidth isolation but also for the some other service functions such as security or the network management and also you know that Network slicing we have the different topology maybe there's the multiple uh MP to MP topology it also can be the P2P topology if we use the P2P support so that they saw they can think about if this resource identifier can be used as some identifier for the for the P2P pass so this is just some use cases as uh identified in the in these working groups the draft so okay okay I have to wait okay this one okay so this so uh okay so this is ah Nexus slice I think they finished okay so here this is just some this talk about this thinking on the generalization of the meeting semantics uh so we think that this uh network uh we think that the identifier of this the uh waiting resource it should be associated with a set of network-wide attributes that means we Emerald side that is a network-wide instead of the uh subrosification node or the past"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "subrosific past identifier that is here that means this should be the network wider attribute instead of the password or the node wide so that's the the first one to if we wanted to do the generalization we first to identify this one so this is the first one uh second one so that we think what this network attribute can be identified so we think that currently that is the first that's related with the uh a regional Network slicing which is the link bandwidth and also with some this is the average of this queue that's used to guarantee the SRE for the network slicing so I think this is a region meaning I mean so this is also here they are so some generalization is not only the bandwidth but maybe other resource to guarantee the SRE uh the second one we think the network attribute that is the topology attribute because this topology let's use Network wide so here we identify the possible Network topology and the P2P uh p2mp and mp2p or the mp2mp that is identified the different this topology attribute the third one we think that we also have the network attribute for other for the resource for other service function so this we think we may also can use this resource identifier to identify the resource for other service purpose such as security or network environment uh so I think that's we think this is important to identify the boundary of the generalization we think this maybe is too hard just to set that is just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "generalized identifier it can be everything it can be anything in the future so we think that we can generalized but we also use this use cases to identify the scope of this generalization of the written resource identifier so next one next oh so we have a person thank you Eric yeah everything so no hat and hellos I mean I just wonder why we keep getting this stuck to 32 bits ID it would be we have reserved bits so we could put the length there and generalize this to many many other use case in fact this uh first though I think I I have explained this the purpose about the generalization I think in ietf when we do some this the protocol specification it should be firstly identified by the use cases so I think for the generalization I think that we must to identify uh what's the user cases and what's the identifier can be generalized this is the first point the second point I think in the existing existing the written options it also remaining the capability for the filter for the filter extension because we have the result of the flags you will use a different flag so that the flag so that indicates the different meaning of the written resource identifier so I think even in the future if some use cases still want to reuse this option I think we need not to change this option type and and also use just to use some this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "new flag for the generalization so this is your second Point okay okay so here so this I just to mention this way so this is this draft we also have some related draft the first draft this is the cxma that's a topology ID draft that means use identifier to indicate the topology so that means the topology is also a resource according to the description in the previous pages so we think that maybe this topology ID can directly use a written resource identifier because the written resource not only include the included resource attribute but also indicate the topology attribute for the network slicing so from our point of view so that the written resource identifier can directly use as a topology identifier uh okay but we think that the question is that because if this can be used topology identifier so that means that existing the features the market topology of the flex angles this may be also that's used created before Network slicing in fact they can independent from the network slicing but now because this identifier kindly use the routine resource identifier so that means this multiple topology must be used combining with network slicing this is can be accepted or not we will ask for the comments in the teeth working group and the igp working group if they agree with this one so I think this this written resource identifier can be generalized to indicate the topology ID this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "first one uh second one I think this is the password and the affair in fact in the Supreme working group there's the one draft is related the past segment that means user pass segment to identify the Sr pass so that user just use some this path identifier but I mentioned that the P2P slice because you suggests is a point to point in fact so that's the written resource identifier can be used as the path ID because just just the point to point one but from our point of view we think this this is just a special case of the network slicing we think we should not use the routine resource identifier become a past identifier so in our opinion we think the written resource identifier should be the network identifier that means all only to indicate that neither World Network wider attribute is instead of the past attribute if so that means if you we need uh need some this the information regarding the past we need to in the introduce independent past identifier in fact instead of reusing the reusing the written resource identifier so we're we're out of time here okay okay another last one I think this we also have the multiple Distributing resource identifier that means we have the global for the cross multiple domain and also the local domain that means we have the uh here we have this is the different resource identifier we think this this we must use independent identifier for the different scope so this is just a third"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "one okay next page I try to finish okay okay so I think we can go the next one okay so I think this is just the major thinking about the generalization of this meeting resource options and the written resource identifier so I I I also there's a thing uh explain the design thought about the generalization and and also identify what a resource I identifier can be generalized with this this one so I wish you can review this draft if you and also think this use case does make sense or not if it's okay so that we just make this as a strong base firstly so then later we will use other drugs to define the generalization that's my uh other presentation okay thanks oh okay okay um okay okay thanks no questions I have another USBC okay uh next next I guess next is Justin right yes okay turn off the cable back no because I need to well can you charge enough okay yeah let's go hi Justin your man Julius um so this draft is actually about carrying a generic identifier and IPv6 packet and this is actually really close and related to the previous presentation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "so actually the idea came to mind right after previous meeting in Philly um because obviously we had two drafts um with kind of similar use cases and by similar use cases I mean they were trying to you know carry a 32-bit identifier and uh the problem is that they wanted to allocate a new cut Point both so you had to create two code points for similar use cases right and there were some concerns and actually there are still concerts uh it looks like actually so um the problem is that it's not generic enough right um so why the second draft on the list here as expired um the first one so which has been presented right before this one um has evolved to make it more generic but I think it's more generic still in that vtn context right so the question is should we do something about that and if we choose to do something well there might be several Solutions so the first one obviously is to have you know a generic container for an ID and here the data length of the option will be the length of the ID so in octet right but the cons here is that it may be too generic right and besides you have no contexts which means you don't know actually what you are receiving here so an alternative to that is to have a new registry so the name the field name is context type thanks to that field you would be able to know which type of ID you are carrying and actually with that registry you would be able to control what is defined in that registry right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "thanks to that you would be able to have a kind of stricter in the data not only an ID but maybe several IDs but also Flags or whatever so if I take your draft I know that with the new revision you have Flex for instance in your structure so it would be possible but again accounts here would be that you have a sub registry so I don't think it's going the right way uh gory left but I think for the efficient processing of biops it may not be the best idea but anyway you have always trade-off here so I'm open to a good discussion here if we do something should we have both solution either or should we do nothing and have none yeah it would be good to get feedback from the working group on this because something like this would allow um a way of carrying a lot of identification information without having to do a whole new uh type for each one there could be a registry either they get it would be I think an easier process to get new things done but it's like with all things has carried off so comments are appreciated from Holly yeah actually as you just see the previous presentation with the flat field and the result field there's a similar capability to generalize this option The Waiting option so as what you propose in the second option and I fully agree that for the similar functional entities one option will be good enough instead of two right and uh regarding the waiting concept I think uh as Robin just mentioned in his presentation but uh considered as a network wide uh generic concept and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:02",
    "text": "cover a set of network attributes which can be applied to not only Network slicing but also others in a generic scenarios so my understanding is uh maybe we can just follow the existing option to make it generic but we before that we can have a base version to meet the current requirements first so okay thank you well that's not the mic El Richardson um I guess my first question really is to do with for um or as a question to people who have or who have knowledge of configurable Hardware that is going to be able to do this is well can you match this can you match this intelligently um or uh are you limited to um looking at the option type there um so I think that's a really big question um and I mean you can imagine new things can do whatever and P4 people can you know do whatever they want but I think the question is uh going back uh what what is what is easiest the other part of that question I think is based on what I think gory said at the beginning um was that uh going forward we're considering all types as if they have zero zero at the beginning and if that's literally true then we have in effect four times more option Fields option types going forward and maybe we don't need to subtype it going forward um and so that also you know I don't know if that's really in in practice what he means or that's where we're evolving to or you know we're we have I know we have 32 option types today available I think we have about nine or ten of them in the registry so we're not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "exhausted uh but you know on the other hand we're not we're not super rich in them so I suspect that we don't need a generic type um and that uh going forward we can reclaim those zero zero bits for other things um but that's not to say that it wouldn't be good to have a document that said um these are all the considerations that options need to think about and it makes life easier for the next guy uh that's trying to uh uh Define a specific option thank God that doesn't answer your question yeah right uh uh in fact I explained some of this design Concept in my draft so that's a I also regarding this dropped I these comments the first one the most important is the scope of the generalization this is very important for this one uh the first because if we let's use some this context ID and we use some of the data if we use this generalization it can be everything this is not only the video or this support it can maybe also cover the information of other IPv6 options even for example the MTU option you can also use this data structure to indicate I think this definitely does not work this first point the second point is the boundary if you use this one to identifier so that's this is you this scope that means the data must be identifier or can be other things that that means this must because this must be defined this is the identifier this is the this is this the evil if this is or not this master defined the third one if this is identify a generalized identifier so this is also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "the use cases I mean mentioned because this can be any identifiers but maybe this identifier can be defined by other draft and also by other options and they maybe had they didn't this identifiers maybe didn't Maybe do not have this comma attribute or this the common meaning so this is just Why I think if we want to define the generalization we must take use of the use case driven method that's my point all right just a reminder that for ripple we have defined one option which is a hub option that signals a topology repo is designed to Route over multiple topologies and this looks like a similar situation as the vtn so I was just wondering instead of allocating new code points if we could extend the code point that we already have so we we have less discussion about how many we have rather than keeping this one completely specific to repo thank you Jackson foreign that should be connected online and this is about the status of the draft you see here so the usage of neighbor Discovery protocol to support multi-homing multiple prefix so next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "quickly the scope it was presented at ATF 114 Philadelphia it's about you know discussing the usage of multi-homing multiple prefix which is a solution that has several sorry it's a a mechanism that is uh several Solutions we have tried to look at the open issues just focusing on neighbor Discovery protocols so you see they are the references to the rfcs the 4861 62 and the default address selection 70 67 24. uh what we have proposed probably you remember the discussion um at the last meeting is something that apparently uh could be let's say criticized because it changes it swaps the two steps defined by 6724 so instead of selecting first the next up router we look first at the source address so that's about the the draft next slide position so what we uh what we did in the past months um there was a a request from the chairs to refine the problem statement so we have reviewed the introductory section of the draft and uh uh at the ietf 114 we received also some feedback about the content of the draft so we included also um a kind of high level analysis on provisioning domains and that brought to the uh let's say review of a couple of sections of our draft so section number three which is about the naval Discovery protocol analysis for mhmp and section number five then we also received a comment about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "avoiding overlapping with other ongoing drafts maybe that was read to another draft that we posted some time ago I guess not specifically this one but anyway it was the right chance of giving a kind of General revision to the document so we hope we have done a general cleaning now specifically on provisioning domains and we can move to the next slides please um as I said we just did a first analysis very high level so we don't pretend it's complete and we are really open to feedback and suggestion from the from the working group um we think we don't think that there are still some a few open aspects we are not completely sure about that but probably um let's say the issue is related on the usage of of the apis on a host or on a server let's say uh how they are used by the application so we have probably a couple of use cases we would like to share with the community just to have feedback so our question is if there is interested in doing so we would like to share through the main list or any types of uh offline discussions uh what we have found so far one possibility as I said that could be related to the usage of the apis probably if you um would use the bind which is probably something on the server side we will say no problem at all so any type of solution works and provisioning domains is more than fine on the host side probably um there could be something open due to the usage of get other info"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "but here we are not completely expert so we like to hear from the community anyway we are open to the discussion if there is any if there is interest we can move on and share what we have found so far next slide please so next step I said provisioning domains is something we would like to discuss so if there is interest just uh get in touch and we can share what we have found and again if there is any feedback or a proposal to extend the scope or even criticism we are more than open to accept that and also co-authoring is welcome and that's it so far thank you very good thank you um Jen are we taking questions or are you a shot of time go ahead okay uh certification and so um you have you followed the work in interior that Eric was working on before and I I think the the scope of that like okay there was a myth working group that was like a lot of work that was there and the idea was to shorten the thing to minimum thing required right so if you want so I think one of the things was actually to scope it down right like to the most useful use cases so if you want to expand the scope probably like you know try to go to Interior have like a talk there at least to people who are done the work before on the approaching domain and to kind of see like you know if there's going to be adoption on the end host side because like one of the things that myth kind of didn't succeed in was like the n-host like had to have a much smaller subset of things to do right and so I really suggest you go talk to like you know like Lorenzo who's sitting here like you know or like somebody who's on the North side like Stuart who's in the itf2 to go and see like if this is an issue they are facing as well before you embark on more work that's my suggestion thanks for sure thank you for the suggestion as I said the idea is not to extend the scope of this draft we really want to focus just on what we are discussing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "there uh but it's because we received you know a feedback at the previous meeting so we just want to be sure that we are not touching something that is already there so we are not Reinventing the wheel basically thanks Lauren the answer Lorenzo clearly just a couple of comments I guess um it's based on the slides really first of all I think if you like selecting the um the address before you before you do the the rooting lookup probably like doesn't allow you to implement like rule on which is to prefer like avoid unreachable destinations or something so thank you you kind of like can't build a straight line algorithm I think maybe you've looked at this already um and for applications for your other questions around um should applications use you know bind or you pass the hint and get that rinfo on those on the source address to use I would not advise relying on applications to do that right like IPv6 or stress selection is actually really hard and one of the decisions that we made a long time ago in Android was to like not require them to do bind they basically bind to a provisioning domain or a network and then the stack figures out the source address it's way too difficult because you have to figure out basically you have to implement most of 6724 in the app because you have to you know prefer temporary addresses you know like avoid deprecated addresses you know well that's really hard so um yeah I'm happy to talk about this uh offline now sure thanks okay so guess no more questions thank you okay and next so mean I guess remote right yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "okay okay no I think only speaking this presentation is very for enabled Institute OEM capabilities this is the third time I presented in English this is the recap of this draft this job defines icmb extensions to achieve iom abilities Discovery in avi-based extent works this chapter is a campaigning document of ibpm working group jobs this chapter defines rdb6 node iom information currently mechanism for this mechanism six iom capabilities objects are defined just like this the corresponding IBM document describes a generic format for iom capabilities discovery that can be used in rb6 MPS SMC and fear this rppm job is currently in IST evaluation no societies the zero zero version draft was presented at ITF iitf 112 and the zero one version draft was presented to that itf114 the latest version is zero two the maintained in zero two version is that IPv6 node information messages defined in obviously 4620 are reused in some extensions to those messages described this page shows the update will probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "SMP V6 format in this format a new queue type and the new codes are defined in this draft data field reuses what's defined in the companion ibpm document furthermore the data field in IPv6 node information reply we use this icmp extension structure defined in RC 4084 to carry the IM capabilities objects next practice this is the format of iom capabilities object actually is format has no change in a zero two version put here just for completeness exercises this page shows an example of IPv6 and I query and IPv6 then I reply necessities there is an open question considering of the 4620 is an experimental I see uh what category does this job belong to experimental standard track or others the authors believe this question can be answered after working group adoption if this working group would like to adopt this job that's like this uh yes the authors ask for working for production thank you that's all okay thank you any comments on the mic Q is run the call on the list okay next Edward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:09",
    "text": "okay fine good afternoon everybody do you hear me yes we do okay next slide please I will remind for start a little bit what is it about uh we still have a security problem on the link because initially everybody believed that encryption will protect Navy Discovery protocol initially it was apsec then send but then it has been discovered that it's a challenge not just because of encryption encryption by itself is easy it was a problem because for encryption you need to somehow to to some trust Authority some trust anchor you need to some somehow to do Key Management which is which is really a big problem for many Enterprises and for the reason uh apcx and uh has not become popular uh it means that it's still possible uh to pretend to be men in the middle it's still possible to hijack some communication on the link if you are on the link of course you need to be on the link but okay uh it's potentially possible in some situations it's still it's still a problem at the same time we see that blockchain Bitcoin they have a good progress without trust to anybody without trust or anchor but the reason it's possible to develop something like CJ light something like simple version which will connect IP address not to the public key or private key as it was in incent for example public private key but connected to the MAC address which is by the way in many cases are already more less protected especially in Wireless Enviro is typically is encryption protected and even for Wired dot One X is typically in many cases not always of course but in many cases implemented anyway we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "dependent on layer 2 if layer 2 will deliver packet not in proper destination then it's anyway a problem please next slide we have intention to repeat the solution but it's very simple you need to collect all relevant information hash it hash and hash and hash again till uh you will get some number of leading zeros and then if you have an athlete in zeros up to you it's up to your security requirement then some number of bits for example tail tail bits 60 bits could be used as an interface ID go next uh it supports uh pretty much almost everything it's compatible to Temporary macro temporary AP address of course for temporary Mac if it's a short-lived then you need to regenerate it again to do hash again to to find a new combination of Mac IP which you would like to use if you will change MAC or you would try to change AP it's of course a little bit challenge but it's not a big problem it's compatible to almost everything except except maybe uh one point it does not protect against denial of service because but by the way encryption does not protect against the network service too because if somebody will try to make a lot of connections to you that then it will not help what is really just one restriction that uh because here only Mac to AP relationship is checked uh it is not a check who is the router because the router everybody could claim I I'm the router and it means that era guard filtering on some switch your own it's still needed there are therefore it's not a replacement for a regard next slide please what has changed science last time there were a few comments primarily on the last ATF and one comment on the Alias and to reflect what has been asked in in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "the comments uh it the text has been changed a little bit it has been discussed that typically layer 2 is already protected by encryption it has been discussed what will happen if it would be duplicate MAC address on the link somebody will try to be duplicated it's probably will create flapping and no no one will work anyway it has been discussed what uh that Mark changes the same complexity as AP change it means no it's more or less easy and some some small other comments it looks like from not very big feedback from ATF or Alias it looks like the problem is not so much interested okay but it's still security problem for which we have Savvy development which is deep filter and on switches we have initially sand and we have after this HBA and we have we have we have many things uh before in the past when we were trying to protect the link layer uh and it's still still not protected for that reason it looks like important topic but from not much not much interest yet therefore I will be happy if anybody will join this particular draft especially on a blockchain site because uh maybe my understanding from blockchain is not the best and if you will look to the draft you will see that it's a lot about blockchain it's a lot about the proper calculation the challenge the proper calculation of parameters which needed for blockchain to work properly for that reason especially if somebody is good on blockchain and will join me I will be happy but anyway any feedback is welcome foreign suggestions silence thank you okay yes I guess we'll continue discussion on the list thank you Pascal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:10",
    "text": "s foreign that for some subject in this group there is there is over the years there's a lot of work which has happened for instance in how we we configure an interface ID that all those rfcs which impact all those other RSC so it means that sometimes we spend a lot of time on some primes next slide on the other hand and some other primes we have not spent so much time and energy and we are still living on assumptions that we narrated from the times of ipv4 and in particular what subnet is what an IP Link is are still concept that we've built more than 20 years ago and we're still living with this mind image Without Really specifying what it is next slide now for the last 15 euros there were groups in the ATF which have been working on how you do IPv6 over radios and this includes many this includes raw this includes six low parents six low number of working groups and those working groups using Wireless discovered that the traditional model that we had in mind did not fit the reality of the networks you could build with radios so this raised a number of questions and we realized that the model where the link the broadcast domain the layer tooling came in and the broadcast domain I have to be congruent with the subnet and the AP link could not survive over Wireless links and we also realized that there was a lot of power actually not trying to maintain them concrete"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "and we found that the old view of looking at what a link is or what the subnet is was actually damaging to power to Spectrum efficiency and now that we care for it for energy use utilization in general next slide please so if we look in more detail what all those groups converge to is that the the link that IP needs for wireless is not um a complex structural with many nodes on them we ended up building IP links which were always point to point and if you think about for a second about what a link local address is on the radio um what what that should be and how you would do that I mean you take your radio with you and you go across the world when do you do that how long can you expect that your address is unique so what is this link on which you configure your link local address and for which you can expect it's going to stay unique and we ended up figuring out that the link has to be a handshake an agreement between two nodes and within that agreement between two nodes then your link Loco can be confirmed as being unique and so that's why we built the the IP links regardless of what the broadcast domain is and you know on radio the broadcast domain can be a lot of stuff but we we considered we still consider always that a link an ipa6 link is a pair of guys that agree that they will use this pair of Link local addresses to converse it might be that on my radio interface I build more than one link so my interface and my links and my links are not the same thing I can have multiple IP links with multiple peers and it might be that I cannot form a single link local which will which will be unique for all those peers doesn't matter for each of those peers I can build a different link lock address oh by the way those typo which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:02",
    "text": "usually reflexive and often asymmetrical is the radio link not the IPv6 link obviously and same thing for transitive next slide please and the same discussion happened for what is a subnet um used to be that your subnet was your broadcast domain so I have the switch fabric I run spending tree or l2r and and I can basically broadcast to a certain number of nodes and my Subnet will be this set of nodes or maybe a subset of this set of nodes so it will be contained within the broadcast domain and then again this is really damaging when we want to build a radio network and we do we can build networks which tons of our kilometers and have thousands of nodes and we do build those networks there are thousands of nodes in them and certainly they are not contained within a single broadcast domain so we we basically build three sorts of topologies on which we can apply a subnet the simplest is the same as your IP Link so it's going to be a pair of nodes and let's decide that we have this prefix and it's let's form this prefix about this subnet or if you look at Network like Bluetooth energy for instance then it makes sense to Define that coordinator is a hub and provides the prefix and then all the devices attached to this coordinator will build autoconf or whatever notarize from the prefix of that Hub so you build the Hub and spoke and the router is typically The Hub and now when building larger Fabrics larger networks uh we build what we you know so-called mesh and with ripple it's it's a rot of our mesh we route over this mesh and you see the links are again point to point uh connection between devices and the subnet is more or less administratively decided all the nodes which form addresses from the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "mesh prefix and participate to the same routing inside that mesh will be known to the same prefix and this allows to administratively decide the size of your of your subnet what the subnet will be Etc so you you gain a full freedom of deploying your subnet over any topology including overlays next slide so to build this IPv6 NDS was built 25 years ago um as a number of I would say unmet expectation the First full and met expectation is that ND was defined for a network where broadcast was cheap and reliable and we know that even though for instance a 2.11 with the BSS can emulate a broadcast it's neither labeled not cheap then the other expectation is is that the links are transitive effect and CB and B can CC then a can CC and when you build a radio mesh clearly at some point your broadcast domain which your radio can reach cannot get to any of our devices for which you need to relay so this is why when we build money or iot iot networks we really we relay at least three we wrote this allows us to save a lot of energy because we don't rely on broadcast anymore and that also allows us to administratively Define you know what the subnet will be so we we gain a full freedom of defining what IPv6 will see regardless of what ipv2 layer 2 gives us now there are a number of other mismatches but I don't have that much time next slide please so just for the sake of of showing this room we we have done a number of rfcs into those are working groups I have a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "list later which basically tell us how we could do neighbor Discovery in a more deterministic fashion so we know better which addresses are used where and you know in many enrolled the the addresses move in Wi-Fi as well so we want to be able to know what is the latest location deterministically and the more we want to have many many addresses or devices the more we need to know precisely the ones that are still in use and where they are and if we know deterministically which address is where then we can establish routing between well the small routers which will form your subnet so we we have defined uh with RFC 8505 what we call stateful address of the configuration or Wireless ND and that allows basically the host to uh declare Etc to the router without any broadcast and you know that probably the biggest slide that's still around is the fact that IPv6 doesn't use broadcast IPv6 uses more broadcast than ipv4 now the second thing we did is the capability to um interrupt between registration in 854405 and a classical ND but what that we call backbone and this is pretty much the flow that that is Illustrated here if you couple the registration and all that then you can connect to the network quite rapidly and as you build this you realize that for instance in this case the six cylinder station can be on a network a physical Network which is very different from the backbone or it could be on the same network I mean this really doesn't matter or it could be on a network where the MAC address is not breachable with um the the backbone so for instance you can do it for 80 82.54 which eight bytes much MAC address on the left and still ethernet on the right next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:02",
    "text": "so this is the the family of rfcs and drafting progress that were built on that model so we started with the original six slope and ND which was 6775 that we extended with 8505 to to be what is really implemented today and two years later we shipped uh 8928 so what is n928 that's the answer of uh what what does sand become in this world and if you start thinking registration where the host can declare its addresses to the routers then it can also provide some kind of cryptographic token and now if if the routers share that information then only a host which knows how to build and can prove the ownership of that token if only those hosts can actually use Services of any router on your pref in your subnet then you can effectively defend your addresses against impersonation and and don't do sound do Savvy basically so 8928 is Savvy made simple and sent me into page simple um because again the registration allows it to be simple that's by changing the product of how you use ND you also make it's securing much simpler and date 9 to 9 is pretty much the ND proxy would I try to i-545 a host will tell the router hey I have this address but it will also tell the router hey you know if there is some rotting or some operation above you do it for me please ensure that you give me a reachability and if the router above is effectively an ND proxy for instance a Wi-Fi access point doing any proxy then this is the signal to the proxy that it should proxy for that address now the same in 505 works with multiple routing protocols it's used for Rift it's used for uh Ripple obviously and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "there is also a draft for evpn so it's basically the protocol independent fashion for a host to tell the router hey I have this address unless there is a prime it's my address please you know do whatever is needed to get it routed to me and then there is new work where we actually extend this for not only registering uh unicast addresses but also multicast addresses for those who are first in MLD you know that MLD also requires broadcast so MLD also is is um low power is high power having its low power unfriendly because it requires the host to be awake all the time which is killing your energy basically so we are we are extending to multicast and now we are also extending to prefix it's something we discussed two I atfs ago at six low and we'll discuss that snack as well um basically the capability for the host or the router but the Step router to tell the big router hey I have this this step prefix with me um I I don't know what protocol you're you're using up there but protocol independent way of saying a whatever for this prefix give it to me last but not least we have this unicast lookup so as soon as the routers know deterministically where each IPv6 addresses in the in the subnet then why would you broadcast an address lookup then again uh anything broadcast including lookup means that the the receiver must be awake if you want to save energy you must have the right to sleep the unicast lookup draft says Hey the routers know where the address is just as the routers don't ask broadcast the whole fabric which is killing evpn which is killing your wireless Etc just do a lookup to this abstract construct that we call 6lbr 6 lbr in practice in six slope and ND is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:02",
    "text": "an abstract thing it doesn't have to be a server it could be seen as a DHCP server but it can also be fully distributed with evpn or it can be partially distributed with proxy and D so it can be anything really it's the abstract representation of the registrar which knows all the addresses in this network so if this abstract registrar exists then you could ask him for any address resolution as opposed to doing a broadcast and that's pretty much it okay we have two people in the queue so you have the slide earlier where you had the three models with point-to-point uh classical broadcast domain and dimesh Network in in that mesh Network scenario um what is the actual benefit of considering this a subnet I.E if you're looking at for example RC 7404 which describes operating without any Global addresses between routers that's pretty much the same situation like you're trying to have the 64 on the mesh with the addresses for the hosts why not consider it a 128 on each host I can tell you where it's deployed I guess it's it's all a matter of deployment so this is deployed exactly like that in the smart grid where a single of the subnets is Thousands to tens of thousands of nodes and provisionally speaking we don't want to go ahead and give them all how do you just go to those iot devices and give them a different prefix why should we it you don't need to give them a prefix um I think you can actually use the regular prefix advertisements and just not have the prefix be on link so that way you have a 128 it's exactly what we do the prefix is not on link and there is one big prefix for that mesh that's what we do I mean a missing why it's not the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "same thing that that works kind of already I mean I'm not I'm not sure I understand what exactly I understand what you're doing but I'm not understanding what the problem is you're solving actually for this then okay so so the piece that we are discussing here is how the host will so it's a rotting it's rotted fabric right so it's rotting inside the subnet so far so good so another question is you've got hosts everywhere in that subnet and it's radio meaning that at some point of time the IP links that you can form are this and next second they are different because the radio reachability has changed so what you want to know is deterministically where the hosts are so they need to tell the router I'm here and that's what we do with this neighbor Discovery making sure that the right routers know exactly what's the latest position of this host okay so you're you're basically trying to increase Mobility times and like movement exactly okay we the addresses you don't choose we want to know they are not used anymore Etc yeah around security I mean you really don't want to use ND for this it doesn't have updates you like you're basically trying to build Dynamic subnets with I mean if you're trying to build Dynamic subnets where like the the set of nodes on any subnet is like dynamically updatable and D is just the wrong protocol you started off saying you know that we have like we basically have this concept of subnet that's stuck in ipv4 it's not really even stuck in ipv4 it's like built for very simple links it's basically intended to say okay is this local or is it not but like David said basically as soon as you get to something relatively complicated you have to do everything off link so it sounds like you're like at that point I think that the problem that you have left once you've marked everything out of link is how do the host communicate to the routers where they are perfectly true but that's a lot easier than than doing all of this ND"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "stuff you can do that in a lot of other ways I think you don't have to broadcast that and even if you do the network can simply drop those broadcasts because once everything goes through the router anyway you don't need to do period the problem is today with the NDS it stays and even with the hcp the router doesn't have a clear picture of which addresses are out there and where they are for the last time so there are all sorts of of hooks of Tricks which are being played depending on the environment because of this lack of clear interaction between the host and the router then you may call it ND you may call it anywhere you want but we need something whereby a host when it wants to use an address we'll tell the router a I want to use this address when it moves with that address we need to yeah the host should just join us to the list we have one more talk and nine minutes left so Ted thank you very much hi thank you so I'm here to talk to you about a new router flag or a new flag and ra messages next slide uh so um the document as written right now actually proposes adding this flag to the ra Flags extension option I don't really know that that's necessary because there are six flag that's still available in the ra header uh but either way yeah either way uh the idea is to add a new flag next slide uh and let's see is that yeah here we go so so the idea of this flag is basically to signal that the Aria is coming from a stub router as opposed to an infrastructure router for those who don't know the snack working group is working on this new thing called a stub router that connects to the infrastructure really without you know needing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "permission or cooperation from the infrastructure to enable like an iot Network to be accessible by devices on the infrastructure in order to do that it has to send Ras um but we don't want it to look to the infrastructure like um like its infrastructure we want we want it to be distinguishable from infrastructure so having a bid in the router advertisement that says this is a stub Network and not an infrastructure network is helpful um there's a couple reasons why it's helpful uh one is that it allows stub routers to notice if there is an infrastructure prefix being advertised on the link and not advertise a prefix so in order to do IPv6 communication you need to advertise a prefix on the link uh that's that's configurable and if there's already a prefix on the link then you would uh prefer to use that prefix but suppose the stub router comes on the link and doesn't see a prefix starts advertising its route its prefix and then the infrastructure comes on and starts advertising a prefix we'd like the stub router to be able to tell that it's an infrastructure router so that it stops advertising its prefix because otherwise it's going to just think it's another stub router and keep advertising its prefix if it wins the election um so this is basically just to promote cooperation and avoid publishing extra prefixes on the link next slide uh and the other benefit is that you might have a situation where you have a stub router or a sub Network remember a sub Network for those who don't know a sub network is like a stub it's a leaf it's not supposed to have any further networks as you're not supposed to do routing across it or anything like that um so it'd be nice to be able to tell when you're plugged into and when a stub router is plugged into a network to be able to tell whether it's an infrastructure Network or a stub Network easy way to do that is to look at the router advertisements so basically this allows us to use the bit the stub router bit to tell that we're being plugged into a stub Network and refuse to try to use it as Transit so uh that's pretty much the goal uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "next slide yeah questions I think this is useful but um I don't understand why it's a property the router itself as opposed to like let's say the Pio and the roots that it advertises right because it yeah I mean what you want to do is you want to basically withdraw the Pio and you want to with or you want hosts maybe to ignore the Pio and the Rio that you get I don't think we want hosts to pay attention to this bit then routers tend not to listen to our race anyway right yeah mostly the consumer yeah mostly the consumer of this is going to be stub routers they're going to send it and they're going to send it and they're also going to receive it because stub routers do listen to Ras so they're going to tell each other about their existence yeah yeah you did say that on the list I think yeah but but the question was like why not apply this to the individual pieces of information as opposed to ra as a whole yeah I mean that's a good question um so let me think about that um yeah um I mean I would say I would say that's a good question I I don't know the correct answer to that off the top of my head and maybe that is the right thing to do so we should just talk about that basically what I'm trying to do here is actually figure out a uh is there any objection to doing this and B um is this the right place to do it I mean we could do this in snack it's not in the charter right now but in principle it could be um I think this working group is certainly more qualified to to think about the question but on the other hand it's a really trivial question we're just adding a bid so um you know I'm perfectly happy yeah yeah that's it yeah so I I'd like to see this adopted either here or to be instructed to adopt it elsewhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "in the world hello uh this particular flag looks like a small piece of a big solution and it's not possible to understand the overall in this solution and then it's not possible to to decide is this flag useful or not because it looks like a small piece in the topology which you have shown on the previous slide uh the internet predicts should be somehow splitted distributed through the side in its home network control protocol or something like this again or maybe httpg or whatever I don't understand how it's possible to judge about this without looking to whole solution so that would be an argument for doing this in this networking group I don't know but the whole solution is needed yeah because that's a little bit of the I mean the discussion we had at the beginning this spring in some sense I think for us to do it here we need to hear from snack that this you would like to have this from us or something like that okay I don't think we should just take it on before that happens okay so so then the takeaway would be snack snack should decide that That Snack actually wants this and then we would ask you to adopt it okay so I think uh one of the things the first thing you said is like hey there's six bits left they're not there's only two bits left just to like so that's why I think the 51 so six bits have been taken in the ra so m o uh mobile IP it was it didn't update the right RFC so we had an average problem back in the day yeah six bits are gone for preferences right like and so on so so I think that's kind of why it needs to go in the option so that that I just want to clarify that and I think like snack would be a good place to do it like with six-man review to do this and I have no particular preference with the Pio or here like in I think this is easier probably for lower end routers which might be the stub routers to process maybe it's it's going to be faster than going through a bunch of pios because then you have to say which Pio goes in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "if you have multiple prefixes so and what if the conflict and so on in this one it becomes clear that it's coming from an infrastructure order so I'm supportive of putting in the ra Flags instead of pio but I don't really care that much okay yeah I mean um I think the reason you stated is probably not actually that crucial so I I get where you're coming from but I think generally speaking of stub router is only going to advertise one Pio so so hence shouldn't be an issue um my point was not about the stub router is the infrastructure router is advertising it right like you need to no no the structure router is completely unaware I understand but you're processing the Pio so you need to put it in Pio logic right the sublotter can get a Pio from an infrastructure order it still doesn't know where it's coming from so it needs to process the Pio and expect this flag there so which I don't want to do right like because you don't have to go through all the pios coming in because the infrastructure does not go through all the POS anyway no but infrastructure router might have multiple pios yeah you look at each one of them to see if it has like that stuff we already have to do that we have to look at them because we don't want to publish a Pio if there's already a usable Pio I understand but you don't have to look for the stub router flag you don't need to know if it's just you need to know if it's a step router or not right because your idea is like you keep doing this until you realize there's an infrastructure router that's why the suborder flag is there right okay so if you put in the Pio you need to process multiple pios but we can take this further offline but I think there's a better way of doing this this year okay I yeah I don't think that yeah okay Eric yeah everything the snack A.D and looks like it's a interior interior discussion here um so basically we are not able in the chart of snack to Define any Flags yeah just for processing right we can Define the requirements and then we need to go here just to be clear yep we should talk about yeah we are just on time thank you very much uh please send your comments for which we did not have time as a microphone to the list and see you in Yokohama thank you very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "much and yes and please if you say anything on the microphone please review the meeting minutes to make sure that your comments were captured correctly because as far as I just aided them and put whatever you wanted to say in correct way good okay thank you very much good I've got lessons tonight I think I now will remember actually the plug for power thing in there it would have had power back too these things are very cute yeah nice one we should probably chairs Swag like that like souvenirs second chair should get some souvenirs yeah Alexa okay but that's it done I think we're done so we ended up with one work uh not two well I was really young but I think I think what he sort of suggested it for this but we I think we're thinking"
  }
]
