[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:09",
    "text": "b hello everyone good evening best we can [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "greg thanks for sacrificing your battery to do video here at this meeting father's in my practice our joint rate's still pretty high so we'll give it a moment hmm hopefully everyone has found the notes page alexis i think this is your first time to see one of these did you find the link to the notes page already awesome for those of you that um haven't met alexis yet she's our new um rsc series consulting editor so i think i got this right so all right now i think that we'll go ahead and jump in so um i don't think i see alice on the call um genie if you could carry back to the rpc my suggestion that we dropped the rpc"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "production blocking issues from the regular agenda for this call we've effectively been covering those at the what had been the cmtn is now the rpap and i think for this call all we need to do is um raise a red flag if there's a major issue that's going to be disrupting the production change but basically discussion of the blocking issues as we're taking care of elsewhere for ftp uh we still have not taken the actions the final actions that we said we would as published in the rfc about ftp roman has a document that he has run by the community and by the iesg that would become the tombstone that we would then configure the ftp server to serve saying that there are no files here anymore go look for them in these following places that's why takedown is in quote we'll still be running ftp somewhere but it will only be serving this one file from conversations with roman this week it's now down to just adding a pointer to the rfc to that file and we should be able to hand it off to glenn unless i hear something on the call today saying otherwise as soon as roman hands me that file i will just ask glenn to make that change and then we'll see a new sure see a new round of um people who are irritated about the change of the ftp service um service or not it'll be interesting to see who notices one thing that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "came up recently um discussing zulub that i want input from the people on this call from when we set up the zulip trial we had some people ask that we feed some email lists into it and we have in our zoola service plan that we would configure groups as they were set up in zulu to also include having their email list fed into it lynn pointed out that this means effectively that we're creating a second copy of the email archive inside zulip's database and this could be problematic for multiple reasons space aside we had worked pretty hard to get down to where we all had one copy of the archive that everything fed off of so that if we ever needed to modify the archive we only had to touch it in one place so i'm going to propose that we send a message to community saying hey we tried this thing we're not seeing a great deal of discussion of it a great deal of uptake of it and it's got these problems we're planning on removing it either removing those streams completely or archiving them as the tool will allow us give that a couple of weeks and then execute on it does anybody have suggestions for doing anything other than that okay i see lots of people shaking their heads no for the the 12 squares that i'm seeing on the on the medico hollywood squares display but i think we've gotten more people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "no maybe not so so robert i think that's the right thing to do but it's not clear to me what you will do if the community says hey i like it that way um so is your i mean what what else can i do though you know what what else how else could we approach it so somebody in the community comes back and says hey yeah i like it that way and we say but yeah we've got this terrible problem so too bad i think yes you discuss it with the isc and the isc believes a single copy is trump's other concerns and we tell we told you to remove those digits from the database i think that's a much better way to start your messages this is the plan that the isg has approved you know because look how long it took us to turn off ftp because we we asked too many questions so um for what it's worth i i did um contact rich stahls who was one of the bigger proponents of feeding the email lists in here and he understands the issues and has no problem with it being removed so i'm you know i'm not expecting that we're getting a pushback there that's really important okay thank you for the the the feedback in and and we'll adjust the the message that we send accordingly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "okay you're pretty paranoid i'm pretty sure i understood what you said all right the next thing that i would like to have a quick discussion on um [Music] we have a couple of web services that have been running for a very long time at www um providing id nets and rsc diff they are wrapped by a technology to glue the python code to the web server that is ancient it was a [Music] environment that henrik invented called pyht um we don't need them anymore i think that the replacements that we've built um at author tools at iddiff and the author tools serve of adding its um service fine as a replacement we got some a comment on the list from paul quiz about today that would be nice if id nets would let you browse a file and run id nets on it which is not present but i think because sorry i don't think that would be difficult to add so i'm also planning on sending a signal to the community that we're just going to start redirecting these things to author tools in a couple of weeks see if it shakes out any other things that people do with those services that author tools isn't doing for them already and they just make that switch anybody want to see a different a change to that plan we had an inquiry about i recommend www include that in the announcement uh as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "if the intention is to turn this off or redirect them i apologize if we gotta be redirected i'm not sure where that is going to plan that wasn't mentioned earlier i just thought i'd call that one yeah i don't want to really confuse the issue of changing the services with the fact that the services had appeared at www and if we're going to um um i think we're just going to be taking www 6 down i don't think there's any need to announce that any right so um but we can't completely i mean we we can redirect the what had been the old web home page at ww6.itf.org at any time if that's not done already there are some things that are in the url tree that are still actively used around isg minutes and the the narrative minutes and other artifacts that keep the the telechats going that we need to re-home before we could um actually close the entire www 6 site down and we're working on building um plans to do those things yeah i think we're getting slightly off topics now though so for the for the author tool stuff um i'll prefer if we can redirect soon because the id cutoff for 115 is i think october 24 or something like that so well before that would be good so that if there's any issues that that people have enough time to get their stuff debugged and submitted so i was um suggesting two weeks from today which would be the 27th or you know on the order of the 27th 26th somewhere in there yeah that's fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:07",
    "text": "any other comments all right i realize i didn't call for agenda bashes at the beginning of the call i think if anybody had any pressing agenda bashes they would have jumped in that's not true please jump in now i tried to structure um the agenda this time so that things that i expected would have discussion would be at the very top we'd hit the end of those the rest of these are fyis i would like to try and experiment with the call today to not just walk everybody through these and just stop for a few minutes and in case people haven't had a chance to read through the different sections give them an opportunity to do so and only talk about things that people have questions about another question about tools um you basically remove the domain so what was the fun for the end of it tools.itf.org is still in dns it now exclusively points to a set of redirectors that are run by glenn so there's a web server there but all it does is serve redirects into the places that we indicated on the tools transition plan and that we filled in the details for um before and we plan to leave those up for um the foreseeable future okay and these are permanent redirects so the search engines will pick them up and stuff i should be that at the moment they're still temporary redirects um we've been in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "period where we wanted to make sure that people were happy with where we were redirecting to before we started poisoning people's cash with bad things we can't switch them over to permanent redirects we haven't seen no that's not true we did see a couple of fixes but they were new redirects that needed to be added this last week so glenn do you have any problems switching the redirects that we already have over to be permanent redirects and then as we discover any new ones to add we just add them as temporary redirects for a few weeks and then switch them to permanent i'm now waiting for glenn to unmute all right can you hear me that would be fine yeah so just please do that at your convenience okay so robert in your little experiment like to understand the big bib xml issue that's forcing the discussion about moving away from initial last name so the small issue that led to the discussion is that at the moment the data tracker has a bug in its production of bib xml in that it provides initials it adds it provides the initials and the last name it's part of the bib xml if you ask for a draft at a particular version if you ask for the one with no version it does not provide these things it is a silly bug it will be fixed it's in the queue to to provide the last name and initials but the what had been this the the style guide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "change and xml um change management team which is you know the the the function which has been taken over recently by the rpc advisory team um pc our pad our rfc production advisory team is what that stands for um we have repeatedly noted that there are many cultures in the world now where the notion of last name um as we are forcing latinized last names on names don't make sense people have to make something up the the the box doesn't fit nicely and collation is impossible um unless we insist on the uh rendering of their of their last name in a latinized script so in the long run we need to have a community discussion about whether or not um this attempt to go mining in a name and trying to figure out what the name parts are makes any sense at all anymore and i argue that it doesn't and that we need to move across all of our tooling to a model where we ask our users for their authors or whatever whatever the roles are just to give us their name in a blob and we can ask for the utf name we can ask for a latinas name if we as long as we have the the rule for for instance rc publication that we want a latinized name um but we just have a blog and we don't have parts and we don't even try to mess with parts and we try really hard to stay out of the game of of of ordering the names by by components so that's that's what that comment was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "all thank you about defining it i don't think that the tools team should drive that discussion i think we should participate in it um because of the consequences of whatever direction it goes but i do think that that we need to have it eventually and i agree with you i agree with russ so this sounds like something for the rswg to maybe have an opinion about because it's a policy thing for the series right and and it's actually one that we can maybe even make progress on so this is an excellent first uh first thing or within the first batch of things to do um if you want to send them an email or somebody from the tools team once or something you don't say hey we think this should change and here's why then i expect the chairs to pick it up this one i actually had another question about jabber um so i understand we're turning off the bridging and all that and that's that's great um i got asked whether we are also turning off the server that we're running in the mail that i sent out that we would okay i did not see that yes i i expected that we would and i think we should okay thanks so the only to be clear the only server that we still have out there is a server that's running multi-user chat we took down the home server quite some time ago so but yes we will take down the ability to do anything jabber.itf.org we'll maintain the archives as they exist and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "as time allows we'll look forward into recto actively um importing the notes from the time during working group meetings back into um the meeting materials as artifacts to match what we're planning to do going forward with zula but our initial effort is is captured in here already we're working with mutico to capture whatever transpires through the chat client in medico whatever is happening in zulu as an artifact that gets captured in the data tracker for that meeting so and they've got the data for 114 so we will have that for 114 and going forward anybody have anything else that they want to discuss yes maybe regarding the numcom thing is it still linked to the mythical blue sheet for the participation yes absolutely but we have as you see in here um we need to modify it to also pay attention to um a new bit that is being added to the data tracker to capture when the secretariat notes that someone picks up their badge on site yeah thank you and our match has been the api for asynchronous submission of draft has been tested for use we don't have field use of significant field use of that yet martin thompson is going to be the primary driver for use of that api with his um github template repository tooling he is traveling so um he's told us that he will make the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "switch to that api as soon as he returns from his travels it may be another couple of weeks okay right now thank you going back to the non-conference so we didn't have the information in the data space whether somebody picked up the path that is correct okay so that's different than what i thought i thought i was told once that the secretariat actually sort of when they do the attendance they actually take those out that didn't pick up the badge okay so that's that didn't happen then okay thanks it may happen for attendance counts that they report separately but the the non-com calculations didn't have that information available and but will so and we're back casting it for the uh the hybrid meetings that we've had um i think i want to point since nobody asked any questions just to make sure that russ saw it at the dns configuration project so um paul waters um wes hartaker are working together with me and glenn to build out a plan for approaching how we are are assigning our dns entries differently than we currently are driven by a need to change the algorithm but in the process of looking at what we're doing there's also a very strong bit of feedback to change the um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the mechanics that we're using um to increase if nothing else the the reduce the ttls increases the frequency of signing so i saw that i didn't have any questions awesome i have a slightly related question um i've recently read through the the trust uh chart funding document in some of the rfc that talk about the trust and apparently the trust is holding or supposed to hold ownership of the private keys that are used to sign internet draft signatures i i wonder if have any statements been made that the trust is holding the private keys that are like that that we're using for dns or other stuff glenn ross already known in the certificates that are used to sign the um internet traps because they were the they're the copyright holder so we thought that was the best party to name okay i was just i was surprised by that but uh i wonder and then i was wondering who is holding in the other credential yeah well glenn holds the private keys"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "alexis i remember we had uh uh a topic when we we had our our initial one-on-one that you were hoping we would wing on this call um do you remember what it was top of my head i feel like i'm still sitting here going i have no idea what 90 of what you all are saying means that doesn't stop anybody else in the idea from commenting all right so the last thing that i want to point out then um hey i want to ask are people okay with doing this in the future because i would be happy to have this call in in half an hour when it's reasonable for it to end in half an hour if the tape as red part is fine um one thing that's kind of buried at the bottom that we might want to change is a little bit of a forced discussion on forecasting of what's coming next there is this section i have down here on waiting for action um we had in the past indicated that we planned to be putting effort into the migration mailman three this fall we may start this fall we have not started yet this is certainly at this point something that's not going to conclude this year so from an expectations setting point of view um those of you that are are waiting for things that we have lumped in with that transition and are are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "helping manage communications to other bodies about it we need to start letting folks know that this is really going to be something that's going to be creeping well into next year i think at this point robert can you hear me yes okay i have a question about the part about under upcoming for the data tracker requiring draft submissions to be fully expanded versus containing x includes and i understand you already spoke with iasg and sandy about it from my understanding is this fully expanding the xi includes different from running the prep tool or the same as running the prep tool it's going to be a little bit different we're not just going to try to use prep tool you know it's it's very similar to what prep tool does um but we are going to um however we implement this make sure that the authors can work in a format where they've got pronouns that whatever their mechanism for not fully expanded remains in their hands that they have the opportunity to look at what the fully expanded output is looks like before it goes into the repository um and there's a was a suggestion made when we talked to the isg to consider capturing both the unexpected and the expanded format that i'm still trying to digest to see if it's a reasonable thing to do to help people that might be wanting to pick up and work on a draft later that may not have been the original authors so that they have the original unexpanded source material as opposed to trying to build in a path where there was something like unprep to take the fully um expanded thing back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "into something that had pronouns for references so [Music] lars did i and or eric did i summarize that completely i think it was a good summary um i i don't feel very strongly that we need to do this if it's sort of creating issues and it's also sort of maybe confusing to people but if they have to upload two different xmls um i kind of given the trajectory for markdown for editing i kind of expect that we would much rather need a expanded xml back to markdown thing for this document so that you can do the biz business markdown and not an xml operation sorry go ahead lars the markdown encodes its source in the xml right so that should already be there unless it gets stripped out at some point if it came in by markdown and only cram down does this i don't think meeks markdown does this okay i see the operational implication for the rpc because we want that one without the expansions so either if there's not two xml files held in the tracker then we'll be requesting the unexpanded xml file from the authors if their id is approved or requesting that there's a special version of um prep that only does something with x includes but how would it know what to go back to right like unless the url is in a comment or an attribute but that's not you know right i just i'm not i'm not for seeing how it can go back to urls fully understand that use case for the rpc and we will incorporate that when we i mean this is going to take code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "and we will incorporate and make sure that we address that use case when when we start in great thanks unless somebody has any other anything else to discuss i think i'll call it's done oh sorry to add another one um you were calling for comments whether we prefer this formula right when we read and we ask questions on unknown stuff uh i personally prefer to spend 15 minutes more and we go point by point already because typically we had a little bit more information than the dry text but if it's only me i'm all set to do what we did today any anybody else waffling on or prefer the old format i think a mixture might be good in the sense that you gave us like basically the entire fyi section and said does anybody have any questions i think my views will just basically go item by item but not you summarizing each item just basically ask for questions about item blah and then move on to the next one so there's a bit more structure okay we'll try that next time um the uh um one thing that i would like to try to make sure that um is getting done i haven't ever seen i've asked every time i've sent this agenda out for people to add anything that's missing and i'm very rarely seen anything at it and i really worry that i've got a blind spot and i would really appreciate everybody on the call um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "blind spot and feel um encouraged to add things even if you know the net result at the end is now we don't really have anything to talk about here at least you know we've had um more than one person think about whether or not we need to talk about it so um i mean we still do have time left on the calendar as was advertised today if i if you want me to quickly just call out the top level parts of the agenda to see if it evokes any other questions i can do that or if people think that we're good we can just move on i think we'll just stop i'm not hearing an argument for running through it that way today but we will do it next time so that we see what other comments it evokes okay well thank you um for your time i really appreciate the opportunity to touch base with everybody on these things and we'll see you at next month's meeting if we haven't seen you online before thank you for all you do robert"
  }
]
