[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "hello hello hi I guess I guess we just wait for one more minute I guess then we can start try to kill with everybody sorry thank you Kirsten foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:43",
    "text": "so um first of all thank you for making that time for this entering meeting um constant are you willing to be vendor digger I'm going to be distracted a bit by other things so I think it would be good if other people also would join take a minute yes thank you Marco hi Danielle so we need to share my screen so uh agenda for today update from AED um I don't see any other ads in our session skip that the first would be the rebook token notification"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "um yes hi I just mentioned we got the end of uh last week the shepherd's review and comments from euron they got addressed in version six uh was submitted and right after or almost right after I guess Daniel requested publication so thanks for putting that in the fast track uh it's done okay the next is Pub sub profile yes I did upload slides for that so if you could yes I will I'm sure okay we can start with from the second slide directly and the version is still the same okay thank you for that yeah that's that's perfect if everyone can see it um so we had a design meeting with Marco um about outstanding issues that was uh presented in the ITF meeting um and what we wanted to reiterate is the new message flow which includes the KDC Discovery as well so here we assumed that the client can do an unauthorized request to the broker you know they can discover topics Etc and with the ace transport you used would get the AIS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "information then approach the as to talk to broker regarding um connecting to the broker to figure out further the KDC associated with the topics that it wants to communicate to um and after that Discovery KDC step the Second Step would be to again um approaching the as to be able to talk to the KDC and then finally talking to the KDC to join a security group linked to the um the topics that it wants to communicate so that's one thing the the flow is um actually have several steps of approaching the broker and the as the second thing that needs to be added is that we were a bit too strict about the topic one-to-one matching the security group associated with the topic using the same names we thought during the KDC Discovery the name of the security group associated with the topic can also be discovered so that kind of provides a little bit more flexibility in terms of naming topics and naming security groups and that Association can be discovered through the um discover during the KBC Discovery as well um so um this uh kind of a substantial change is that previously the draft was written in a way that allowed unauthorized subscribers um this was because I think previously people thought when the subscribers joined you know the conversation you know by associating to the broker um they what they would get for that topic would be encrypted Communications and since they are not part of a security group they would not be able to decrypt that information so they don't need to go additional steps of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "authorizing themselves to the broker we thought this is not a good idea um um so we basically suggested that no authorized subscribers or no authorized Publishers to be able to discover the KDC and an Associated Security Group you need to be authorized as well as you need to be authorized to be able to join the conversation link to that topic so those are the two changes next slide please so we I um described the scope was still um not complete in the ITF meeting um first of all we started the scope with roles of Publishers and subscribers but then thinking actually what we are adding to the scope in terms of publishing reading and deleting what we're adding is really permissions um so and there are permission details that are described in the scope um so we we thought renaming that would be better um in terms of really describing what the scope is about and then previously in the ITF meeting we suggested addition adding an admin um permission this was not for this profile because this profile describes normal clients not having clients but um it was just to be future looking in case we have another profile describing admin related operations for Pub sub um in addition to that we've talked about um signaling what the scope is about whether it is an application group or a security group we thought this would be especially important when the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "entity assumes multiple roles like KDC and the broker are the same and they have to still ask the as for an um so the client needs to still ask for a token for this the same entity and the audience would not necessarily differentiate for which role they are talking to that entity so we thought the um the type of the group the scope is associated with would be a good indicator to add into the scope um okay so that's the sculpt change previously uh we thought you know we should have a specific uh naming and Etc but we decided just having a flag the identifying the group type would be the best to add to the scope now and last slide so plan for the ITF cut off is the implementation of these changes plus some editorial changes clarifying the KDC Discovery finalizing scope if there are any points to be raised in this meeting we would take them into account so please let me know um your comments in the previous two slides in addition to that we would need to um be more clear about our join response as well um which should we previously it was describing just the coseki being returned but we need to include the signature algorithm and related parameters to the join response as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "described as point-to-point we we were thinking of describing or um thinking whether it's worth to add another group re-keying scheme um and then there were additional uh operations supported at the KDC regarding policies and Etc so these will be done later after the cutoff and that's my update for the pub sub see them you're around here yeah okay so okay you have questions yes curious about hi I was just curious about what you said about distinguishing application group or Security Group on the previous slide I didn't understand how that was done could you could you please repeat that yes so if we go to slide two it was just going to be a bit identifier that would say so especially if the topic is the same as the security group name right slide three then slide two or three three where is the scope described um so when we are approaching the authorization server we approach the client approaches the authorization server twice once to get a token for the KDC he wants to get to the Token for the broker and typically what we describe in the profile is that the topic name was the same with the security group um and then the audience differentiates what this token is for and who is this token is for so Marco raised the issue of what happens from the KDC and the broker are the same entity so when you approach the authorization server yes the audience has the correct ID but then you would want to flag what this token is for to the to the authorization server so that they could check the correct policies around um right whether this is permissible or not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "so that's it well and which bit is that is that the so it's the red so we are we are proposing changing pop sub rolls as pops on Perm details and then we have an admin bit and after that a group type and then publish readings sorry group type yeah okay so that's what we are okay thank you okay for our new questions I see that the police here so but one of our first item on the agenda was any update from ad uh is there anything you you would have for us sorry can you repeat it like the audio was really bad on that sorry uh what I say is the first item and the agenda for us was the update from ad from you um ah okay so um right so so um so today the the ad reviews for The Late documents for ad hoc go out and then um next on my list is doing all the group the Oscar group documents so those um should hopefully be um going on to the IEC ballot in like two weeks for the sorry for the IDF last call in two weeks so that's that's the only update I have are you expecting any update from something else or none of it was just uh that's fine for us thank you very much Paul okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:06",
    "text": "agenda is Osco GM admin right I also uploaded some slides can I show them by myself well I'll try okay okay um yeah hi everyone this is an update on the gym admin document and as agreed in the past few meetings and entering meetings uh we have now completed the document split um essentially taken out the coral content so the current document say Doc one is soon to be just gmad win9 continuing on the same usual track um you can track the changes uh on the electroscopy on the GitHub and again most of the change was extracting away the content related to the use um of coral while keeping the the main interface protocol and its use with seabor and Link format uh yeah we also noted um some remnant from from last year if not older about uh how the group managers should consider uh the pairwise mode to be by default if nothing is said by the administrator and that has been uh false for a long while um again probably a Remnant from the times where the pairwise mode was just introduced and kind of treated as a Class B citizen uh so we think it's just more appropriate to have it um through but it's a simple change uh and then we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "took the opportunity Also to clarify better um what happens when group members learn of group configuration uh change just in spanning on the content we had already and of course a number of editorial improvements but then in parallel uh side by side with the extraction we also set up uh the soon to be a GM admin Coral zero zero it's now completed a stable GitHub repo okay sorry go ahead oh my God I'm not sure I'm hearing you an issue with your mic yes okay sorry um yeah in the co-working group we are processing the chapter review of the group of score document and when working on that uh we noted two uh open points for this GM admin document here to be addressed accordingly more details in the next slide but um one is an actual um clarification uh in the protocol and one is more a matter of consistency fix in terms of technology to remain consistent with uh with Grupo score um so on the first open Point uh this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "was around all along actually but uh again we've just noticed considering work uh happening uh in the co-working group uh the administrator is in general able to change the uh current configuration of the group at runtime and um it may sound a bit Reckless but the administrator May in principle change uh the encryption algorithms used in the group uh well we are already discussing some side effects for the group members but uh one side effect we didn't consider is the case where this change results also in changing the maximum size of those score sender IDs used in the group especially if the new size becomes a smaller than the size of the sender ID of some of the current group members so those group members would practically have an identifier that is not consistent and usable in the group anymore at that point so just in the interest of avoid something very complicated or to shut down the group altogether which would be also an overreaction uh if there's no objection our proposal um would be in this particular Corner case for the group manager to evict from the group specifically those group members that now have basically an inconsistent uh two large sender ID we don't need to explain how that particular step happens it's taken care of in a separate document but sorry my connection is bad today I was saying the king process itself is already taken care of in another document but I think in this document we should at least say that this direction is taken in this corner phase and it's neither it's nice that we can say that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "once and for all in one particular section uh discussing this configuration overwriting with a put Handler we don't need to re-explain in another section that's just inherits this side effects silently we don't need to re-explain it again in the admin Coral document I mentioned above that inherits this silently as well so if there's no uh yeah a smart alternative or objection against this I proposal would be to uh to explain this uh Way Forward in section uh 662. I heard none and not in the chat so we will implement this Logan yes so I was asking a participants so no question on this and that open point from others okay thanks yeah the second one is easier it's really about terminology and naming for the sake of consistency with group of score it's about changing the name of an algorithm and the name of a parameter reflecting um another another algorithm uh that has to be fixed accordingly um also in the in the coral document especially in the examples at the same time when we do this I think it's worth adding an editor's note to mention that this new updated terminology would be aligned uh with the um soon to come version of RuPaul's coded we plan to submit in the next few weeks uh but instead the document kigokom"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "Oscar referred by this one uh right now it's kind of Frozen in the interest of the ad review and well there's going to be for some time a bit of mismatch on this particular terms but uh probably the the best thing we can do at the moment uh also to not confuse Paul uh is I think this editor is not here and the plan was for when we processed the idea review to also aligned with that terminology yeah this should be non-controversial okay uh so next steps uh just to keep this in lockstep also in the inter in the interest of the terminology synchronization um in the next few weeks uh we plan a resubmission of the Rupal score document in core uh something more will be left there but it shouldn't really affect uh what happens in this document instead and then we finalize um GM admin to be Version 9 according to the previous slides uh we'll submit it as version nine and we follow up right away with version zero of the coral document and when we get there we should uh definitely have the GM admin Version 9 ready to consider for a working group plus call thank you just there's just one comment from Goran moku on Slide Five he you should check the comments he said you mean after the Adu review after the Daily Review absolutely okay thanks by the way I proposed an additional legal set of slides on key group home and kiguru.com Oscar no need to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "through them um I I just cared about having them archived for the meeting material uh but long story short uh also um also related to the terminology issues I mentioned above um I'm just going to open some issues on the GitHub for both kigu com and kirukon Oscar especially on the terminology alignment um again to not revise the drafts right now and to wait for doing that after the the ad review so it's good if you can also prove those lights to be added to the meeting material but it was just about listing some GitHub issues we were planning to to open just do not forget about those so any other comments before we proceed to Marissa's slides thank you then please go ahead hello this is Molly shop so yeah I'm here to present the latest update on the ESD Oscar draft uh we published revision01 uh during the the past weekend uh this this revision resolves all the comments and issues that Marco raised in his review once again I would like to thank Marco for his review and uh the goal of today's presentation is to to discuss one of the open points that was raised by Michael what during the discussion uh on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "pull requests in the repository and also to present the resolutions to the issues from the last interim so I will for in the interest of time uh and uh I will first go with the open issue and then uh after at the end present the resolutions to the issues from the last meeting so the open issue that was raised by Michael is on server generated private keys and I will read here the comment that Michael posted in GitHub and where he he's arguing essentially to remove the server generated private Keys completely from ESD Oscar and uh he's saying that the reason that 19148 had it was because of a very specific because of very specific situations where RSA 1024 bittai Dev ID key was to be replaced with an RSA 248 key and it was known that the random number generator in the client machines was poor Etc and uh essentially he's arguing that uh uh I think that any 10 year old silicon has good enough RNG support that it's not an issue so this was the comment uh posted by Michael that raised some research on my side and on the side of the quarters so essentially there was a post uh a private post an exchange with Shahid Raza from six who is a co-author of ESD Oscar who is also arguing who is arguing uh the contrary uh and he posted as a uh as his argument in in response to his argument a video of uh of a talk on random number generation issues in the iot space where essentially uh the conclusion is that the hardware random"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "number generator is not enough for secure random number generation mostly and the cases that uh some of these are not properly implemented such that the hardware is not uh is not at the in the best shape uh but also some vendors use bare metal programming without an operating system and therefore uh do not include the cryptographic please secure random number generator so in my opinion server generated private Keys kind of work around this issue but I think this is a larger issue to be discussed and I'm sure you guys will have some more input on this so I'm opening this for discussion uh whether the main question is whether ESD Oscar should support should follow RFC 9148 and support server generated keys or rule them out all together do we have any comments on this so that is your run yeah and I I don't have I mean I hear two opinions here and I I don't have much to add really I think it would be great if we could avoid server key server generated keys but I um unless we are convinced that that's or that's always a bad option then I think we should keep it in and maybe have large caveats about um when they are needed and when they are when they are desirable Michael says something here in his chat maybe you won't read that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "Michael says he's an Aussie place so he's not getting everything but he says he doesn't buy the without an OS point he says if there could be a matter when we need to code beam it or secure RNG or we will have lots of problem he says that he hasn't watched this YouTube video and when he says other people are working group who want server generated keys that rhymes video he says I don't object but he questions the need ah okay so I'm not arguing that it's good to have server generated keys with so oh okay so Paul is saying I would be okay with the big fat warning that it should not be done unless absolutely no other way possible so yeah I think this was my proposed Way Forward instance and I think it's seconds what joran said about having a big security consideration uh section on secure render on uh server generated private keys so uh so I think also if we uh we will be compatible with RFC 9148 if we keep the option with it uh and so I would propose This Way Forward then and it seems to be okay with all and euron so are there any other opinions oh harness I think it's pronounced I don't see harness in the and reports at least"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "I think Michael's making a joke that um he needs Thomas to back him up with his claims sorry I didn't catch up thank you okay so maybe to respond to Michael's comment about bare metal then they need to code bare metal secure RNG or they will have lots of problems so this is true this is true uh I do not support or I mean it's I'm just stating the fact that some vendors are using bare metal uh uh bare metal programming approaches uh but yeah if we want to secure RNG then the best way forward as it is outlining this stock is to have multiple sources of entropy and not a single uh source of entropy and that this needs to be implemented properly so it's more the matter of what is the state of practice today and whether we should still allow to be on the safe side allow an option so I think allowing an option with the warning is fine uh with the good consideration explained in the draft so I would propose that way forward then yes question I think has a wood access speaker yeah so first of all of course it's it's a sorry state that that we are even considering this but on the other hand the the reality um maybe it hasn't gone away of course if you're always thinking in terms of the newest processor types uh that may not be a problem anymore but I think and really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "it still is um one question that that I have that that maybe is unrelated to to resolving this issue um do we have ways for the server to actually contribute uh to entropy so that is a good question I don't have a response immediately to that uh maybe just a point for for thinking about it and then yeah maybe this doesn't fit into this document which which essentially tries to be an implementation often existing protocol but maybe it's something to think about for um resolving this problem in a slightly less unservied way mm-hmm so maybe I'm making a little digression for yes so if you're only stating something for the things to things research group perhaps but I would just maybe to make little regression Cards into what you said that even the new new processors uh have good support I was surprised when I actually followed this talk that some very prominent examples uh I won't name the vendors now but some very prominent or new processors that have uh Hardware support for rngs have been shown to have very uh vulnerable implementations of them and they are quite recent so this shoe is really there so it's but uh it's again it's a larger issue I mean without random generator we won't get very very far uh with other protocols that we are standardizing in the space either"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "so so it's an issue that needs to be solvent uh in the implementation at least so uh so I believe in in terms of this that there is no big that we have some somewhat consensus on uh keeping the option open and leaving the uh big fat warning as Paul said in the security consideration section on the pitfalls of doing this um okay if there are no further comments I propose we proceed yes proceeding okay thanks so I will now go through the result issues from the last meeting they kept the same ordering uh from the last interim when we discussed them and I'm including just a snapshot of the pull request that was introduced in the repository on on each specific issue so this is this should be non-controversial it it's just the implementation of what we discussed uh in the previous meeting so this issue is to explicit the message flow so where we are we are forcing the ad hoc client to play the role of the uh the ESD client and uh ad hoc respond ad hoc initiator to play the role of the uh ESD client and the ad hoc responder to play the role of the EST server so this pull request did that uh uh if are there any comments on this and yes in the process of doing this I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "found out some uh normative keywords that were used unnecessarily essentially what custom called uh restatement anti-pattern if I recall correctly so I this this is lowercasing these keywords the CL on essentially that are coming from the requirements of ad hoc so logical consequences of implementing ad hoc therefore for Mutual Authentication if there are no comments on this I will proceed so the next issue that was resolved was a channel binding when ad hoc is not used so this was a comment by Marco that he was also when that he outlined essentially that what we are the channel binding that we are doing is very specific to the case when ad hoc is used uh so we just uh made the pr that uh to clarify this that the channel binding that is optional in the draft uh is uh is used when ad hoc is executed prior to enrollment uh and then uh when Oscar is used directly with pretty short context we are not doing Channel binding so this is non-controversial uh this was a comment by Marco where he was essentially questioning why we were not transporting pkc as objects in EAD ad hoc items and the reason for this was because uh was because uh we are considering re-enrollment where use of ad hoc is not necessarily uh where ad hoc is not necessarily used so we added an informative statement that uh uh EAD"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "items are not used because of uh ad hoc is not necessarily used in the case of re-enrollment so the next comment by Marco that we resolved was to mandate the osc attribute in links to it to EST resources uh the comment was that uh in Oscar RFC 8613 the osc attribute is optionally included but here in our configuration where we can uh where we can also use where we can use dtls where we can combine the use of oscore ndtls the uh this attribute is indeed required in order to signal to the clients that the resources that this is an EST server using EST Coopers that is using ESD oscore and not EST Coopers foreign the next issue is related to a server generated keys where the response to SKC uh endpoint may be an unencrypted pkcs object so essentially out of c9148 leaves the option as we later examined uh leaves the option of having both unencrypted and encrypted objects uh as a response to SKC request uh what we did here and this essentially depends on whether the client included in the certificate signing uh in the CSR included the S mime capabilities which signals whether it the response should"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "be encrypted or not so when making the the CSR to SKC and skg the we mandated that the ESD client must not include sman capabilities and there's a consequence of that the private key part of the response to SKC or skg is an is an unencrypted pkcs 8 object so this is essentially implementing what we discussed during the last meeting uh then we worked on the content format identifiers where Marco brought up that it would be good to just like in RFC 9148 include the summary of what is supported and we added an explicit statement on the content format support this is uh the the green stuff here in the middle and we also added a table on uh on the summary of the response content format identifiers for SKC and skg server generated Keys which are now unencrypted PK cs8 objects uh then during the last meeting we discussed restatement at the anti-pattern in message binding section uh this was brought up by Karsten and uh the action was to avoid this uh this pattern by informative text so essentially what we did is we made the text informative by preceding it with note that and it is therefore required that the implementation supports uh implements given options from the from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "the references and uh later we uh specify exactly in slide uh 16 we specify exactly uh what must be implemented and what may be implemented in terms of block block one and block two uh so this is uh on block one and block two where we follow where we uh somewhat follow RFC 9148 essentially right now what we specify is that uh the servers must Implement both block 1 and block two and that Oscar clients must Implement block 2 and may Implement block one which is used in the request so essentially it's up to them whether they want to fragment uh using block one in the in the requests so I will go back one slide because I just just have a quick editorial comment um yes when you have a passive construction like a new on the new version of line three two um it's not clear who is recommending that and and maybe you should just say that uh so okay uh okay you are say you are referring to it is recommended to prevent the IP fragmentation okay so this was the old text okay that is if that is a restatement of something else why not just say who originally said that oh okay I wouldn't okay I see so yeah okay I'll tell let's say let I'll take an action item to uh to to explore this further and to editorially change the the text on uh the recommendation on IP fragmentation yeah uh finally there is uh number 17 issue number 17 was based on a comment on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "uh secure association between ESD client and co-opt HTTP proxy uh where Marco stated that this this may alternatively and more conveniently rely on oscore uh so we agreed in the previous meeting to informatively reference this draft as a way to establish a secure association between DST client and Co-op to HTTP proxy so yes in the first two changes it's just the sentence being uh brought to a new line and then the new sentences reads if a secure Association is needed between the SD client and the comp to http HTTP proxy this may also rely on a score referencing Marcus draft so I think I skipped one I will go yes I'm just a non-controversial specified translation number 15 specified translation scheme if dtls is additionally used essentially we were missing uh we were being specific that uh uh EST URLs based on https are translated to co-op uh when Oscar is used but in case dtls is additionally used the translation Target is this is the scheme quad s so this was just the clarification in uh in the draft so that would be the last resolution of the items from the previous meeting uh with that uh we are uh we are uh we have action items to essentially uh expand on the security consideration section uh uh especially now with regards to server generated keys and also some other aspects in the draft triple uh related to channel binding using ad hoc and the triple Shake attack that RFC 9148 counters so we will be expanding on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "before and Publishing a new version before the cutoff uh for for the next ITF and we hope to receive new reviews that would help us progress this uh specification further are there any questions uh to what I presented any other questions so if thank you Melissa so if we are if I know of a question we'll proceed to the next one which is idokos core profile so this is your there is no government I'm not sure I'm hearing you yeah you can't hear me you can't hear me yes I can hear you now okay great um there is no we are working on it there is no update for this meeting um on the uh on the adult profile so we'll get back on that probably at the ITF meeting in San Francisco because there is some some vacation time now between now and the cutoff sorry between now and the next in three meeting so so that would probably not be uh any not much progress so we can that we can present Frankie Goran so if I know the question I think we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:06",
    "text": "so again thank you everyone um and see you at oh wait go run you have something to say no I just want to say bye okay bye thank you bye-bye all right goodbye bye-bye"
  }
]
