[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:19",
    "text": "good afternoon welcome to spring working up so we have a full edge on us so we\u0027re about to to start if someone could throws the dough so good afternoon Rob could not make it so I\u0027m the only one this is the agenda for today as always we have a full another so please stick if your present keep your allocated time and if you have comments please an extra comments on do not repeat so points that have already been a them we don\u0027t have a share slice so not well we\u0027ll assume you have already read them we need we do need to scriber any volunteer for scribing especially that some people will did not make it to to Singapore any volunteer follow scribe Brillon please maybe short the volunteer verbena could you speak could you could you help with being described a please just to realize describe our or do you you don\u0027t have a laptop so okay so we\u0027ll do without the squadron jabus climber so this is the Jean are again food agenda any any comments on the agenda thank you secure Deena okay so so we\u0027ll proceed them so the first is the speaker is shredder ah ha ha ha ok so we\u0027ll keep to share applications of our hello my name is a four I am going to present this replication segment draft on behalf of the authors unfortunately Dan and Rishabh and and Jeffrey cannot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:24",
    "text": "make it so I\u0027m just helping with the presentation in terms of brief history of this draft so work actually started back in 2018 and it was named a drug why a SRT 20 policy it was presented by then voice in Prague ITF and it did receive comments from chair as well as from working group and based on those comments the way those comments are address is by splitting this document into two one document talks about replication segment so the scope and discussion today is on the application segments where spring itself has the expertise and then how these replication segments are used are the expertise are will be pol√≠ticas working groups so that document is in the pin there has been lately quite a few comments on the mailing list many many thanks for those comments authors have addressed those comments that have done a revision during this week and have also calls with the people that have comments specially Shasha many things are sure if you are attending for your comments and we have made tremendous progress in terms of achieving a common ground and addressing comments and if there the need there could be another revision really quickly let\u0027s talk about the scope of the draft this draft is specially targeting in a spring charter item and I read verbatim it\u0027s pretty shorter to define new type of segments netting to forwarding behavior and then one of the definition of those is local English replication the draft is no more than local English replication replication segments deliver packets to multiple nodes in the SR domain but it\u0027s a direct application from ingress to the set of downstream egress knows the a copy of the packet is unique a stood to each of the downstream node in where you can think of it is a little is a simple application segment with low propagation over N as are policies but the point to note is that in this case there is no multicast groups in the context of document or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:26",
    "text": "scale with document there are no multicast flow that we talked about there is no receiver join there is no three building all of these things are outside the scope of this draft and topic for discussion with the working group where multicast expertise exists here we are working specifically to fill and address a chartered item for a spring what is the applications sit which is what has been defined here this is a forwarding construct in it identify segments in the data plane by an imperious label or asar we succeed this is more like binding cid and when a packet comes with that sit then it get replicated to each of the e grosses using the unique Ostrom so then it perfectly max 284 or 2 in terms of when the packets are replicated via local policy is is a push operation as Marie de SR re-texture 80 402 when active segment is the application ID is a simple continue operation and in the downstream node is a simple next operation in terms of replication segment as we discuss is is a local segment in satiated on a single node in the network which is you can think of it ahead and then it performed application over set of SR policies the SR policies could be just desta for route which means there it basically is a best-effort unique ass using the prefix seed of the downstream node that are part of the set replication set or it could be the SR policy which steer the traffic through some traffic renewing path to that set of downstream Lord unicast fashion and is identified by application ID and the node ID where node ID is the idea of the node where application segment is in sin she ate it there are multiple implementation of this graph that are available and at least one deployment is known and planned and that for that implementation the code is in Bell Canada laugh for trial or for deployment we will like to get this simple document adopted as per the charter item and I would like to solicit any feedback comments my colleague is also online rishabh any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:28",
    "text": "comment so the color of the draft is to have we find a local replication scheme called segment replication we\u0027ve discussed with the chair of beam working or and that some presentation related to doing some multicast in spring networks so if you\u0027re interested in that you can also go to Beamer and they are likely to start some discussion of the reduction ok I I think this is a good idea so we should I support this work because I think it\u0027s very useful and a very easy way to support multicast with second round thank you mean so you like to get a path for the room into the support will as concern is we started an adoption carranza this time next week ok but but in reality like pins work is different in is would be proceed image work is differences well just worse for information we have discuss research oh yeah Comanche from Siena I also want to support this draft this is a really good replication ingress replication stuff so pretty straightforward okay thank you thank you do you want to to present your draft good afternoon everyone so this is a draft on how to use BGP LS EPE for entry a s purposes so on behalf of co-authors presenting this job this draft was presented in IDR in Prague and we got a feedback that we should present it in spring as well so this draft is regarding bgp LS extensions for BGP EP and using that advertisements for inter areas traffic engineering purposes for SR networks so there are some gaps in being able to use BGP LS EPE for inter areas traffic engineering purposes so let\u0027s see what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:29",
    "text": "are the problem so so this is for deployment use case where - it\u0027s a single administrative domain but deployed in two different aliases so we have this protection mechanism for EPE said so you could you if you have an adjacency peer adjacency said you could define another adjacency see it as a backup for this so that when this link goes down you can use that other adjacency see it as a your traffic will flow on the other adjacency set so imagine a controller which is doing traffic engineering and coming up with which Sid should be used for which kind of traffic it really doesn\u0027t know which if the when it fails where the traffic is going to go and whether that has enough bandwidth or not so to be able to do that this controller is going to learn the EPE seeds from the ESB ours so it can also learn which Sid is a backup for is being used as backup for which other Sid so we define this F bit in the existing flags and this this fr Sid will be included as part of the peer adjacency sit advertisement just how you would include appear succeed but for tier set said the F flag would not be set whereas for in for a Sid which is in getting included as part to to indicate that it\u0027s a it\u0027s you being used as backup the F bit will be set that that\u0027s what the idea is so second problem so this is regarding it\u0027s an up so that in this context the F bit stands for FRR is that right yes so second problem is peer node set so this is a case where there is an e BGP multi-hop session between the two a SS between r1 and r2 which are the s peers and we have a peer node set advertisement for this ebgp multi-hop peering session and traffic is expected to load balance between these two links shown here so as part of peer nodes it advertisement what we get is the BGP multi-hop session local addresses which is r1 and r2 loopback addresses so the controller doesn\u0027t really know which are the actual links that are being used for this node set so a controller that is doing traffic engineering and doing bandwidth management it can\u0027t really know what are the links and what has associated bandwidth with respect to those links so the proposal is so when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:32",
    "text": "you advertise appear nodes it and when you want to do traffic engineering and bandwidth management over these peer adjacency said it is a must for each of those links so peer nodes that can be used for load balancing like you have one set and you can load balance your traffic across the true links but you should separately also advertise peer adjacency said and associate all the traffic engineering attributes to that adjacency set so this draft mandates the peer at Jason sees advertisement of peer at Jason\u0027s he said even though you advertise peer nodes it and one more property is you cannot you should also advertise as an attribute in peer node said the link addresses so there\u0027s a new TL we defined which is the link address TL v it carries the interface addresses of the links which are corresponding to the peer node state so the TLB looks like this it has type length and number of ipv4 interface address pairs and number of ipv6 interface addresses and the actual pair of interface addresses so when both so this is a case where some interfaces are ipv4 and some underlying interfaces are ipv4 and some underlying interfaces are ipv6 in that case the the ipv4 addresses are encoded first followed by the ipv6 addresses so the controller is responsible for looking at clear notes it and these attributes and correlate which peer adjacency sits these pianos it corresponds to and get the traffic engineering attributes such as bandwidth and other color link color or other traffic engineering attributes from this this advertisement so this this advertisement is mainly used for correlation by the controller that\u0027s the summary it strengthens the interests srte in in this particular mentioned scenario we request to review and comments from agama you know for the increase authority in order and they also follow either the arc here here I charge the one to ask the yoga if you based on the EPA to build the interest about you so if we have several partners or SBR between given s so doesn\u0027t need to be needed every SPR to run the PCBs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:32",
    "text": "or protocol yeah that\u0027s right yes maybe maybe some deployment the Shiksha you know because you know in our network there are almost every edge rotor or connector is our main network so so in a way based on the EPS Rosen the in the area as you not her must run the PCBs proto I think the he\u0027s a maybe some accessibility issue yeah so but for EPE purposes you anyway have to run BGP LS PPE and this mechanism is just you reusing that to build interest paths across the two cooperating domains thank you thank you any more comments so next button is a rakish from 41 good afternoon everyone my name is Lucky\u0027s candy and presenting this SRP and drops using T one plight on behalf of the authors and contributors sorry I do have a cold so is it better thank you so there were two other drafts as well the 163 74 MPLS sr and pls io am so both drafts are now moved to the MPLS working group so they were on agenda but we won\u0027t be presenting them they were presented Monday in the MPLS working group so the agenda is requirements and scope the history of this draft the updates we have made since ITF in Prague based on many review comments and suggestions the summary and the next steps so the requirements is a delay and lost measurement for links as well as end-to-end SR policies both SR MPLS as well as sr v six data planes no need to bootstrap the PMC essence I think this means no negotiation no signaling that\u0027s the spirit of SR it is stateless on egress node again goes with the SR simplicity we need to handle the ICI "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:34",
    "text": "mp4s our policies a support direct mode loss measurement as well so the scope is using the RFC 53 57 1212 light probe messages we have now also included the stamp step is was approved by IES D so it should become an RFC soon it\u0027s a fixed length version of prompt light and basically using the user configure UDP ports so the history of this draft he was first published in February this year but it is based on the UDP PM draft that we had published the year before so uses that is just an evaluation after the UDP PM draft so it\u0027s been around for some time now this was presented in Prague in spring working group and then it was also presented in AI ppm working group in Montreal so based on the review comments suggestions many many thanks to everyone who contributed we have updated the drafts we welcome back as well as Bart as co-authors we have added the provisioning model that useful for this solution now also include the Stamp message formats also define the look-back measurement modes we have added a TLB for to a measurement mode we have clarified and added the message processing rules for TTL a router alert option and UDP checksum also elaborated procedure for p2 MPs our policy there is some format alignments between loss and delay measurement as well and some editorial changes so just to give a summary of the changes that we have made since this was presented last time so this is a provisioning model basically both the sender and responder provision for the delay or loss and the corresponding UDP port times them format V TP or NTP along with protocols it could be to imply it or stamp and whatnot authentication key and mode so the it now defines the measurement modes so one way is that replies sent out of been an IP UDP pass to a measurement mode reply sent using the return path TLV that\u0027s received in the query message and in the loopback measurement mode the probe query message contained the return path in the header of the packet so basically packets are not pointed on the responder side so this is the return party L we define this is carried in the Trump or Stamp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:37",
    "text": "query messages it defines various types for SR MPLS as well as SR basics including the bind corresponding binding seats as well so this is the the message format defined for direct mode loss measurement so they have fixed the main characteristic is that it\u0027s a fixed length and they have fixed a location for their counters so it\u0027s it makes it Hardware friendly and it\u0027s aligned with the DM message format as well so if Hardware knows where to come timestamp hardware will also know where to put the counter we have also defined them for authenticated mode and this is basically using a different UDP port desk user configure for loss and the one in purple is is basically for stamp is a fixed format so the padding is not required so our next steps we welcome your comments and suggestions this has been implemented and deployed we presented this talk in a ppm and they asked us to keep them in the loop about the milestones we do believe that the draftee is ready for working or production in spring Thanks any comments questions so was write the draft but 10:15 p.m. among the person was waiter to have to believe it\u0027s ready for adoption [Music] what\u0027s the same on any person believe it\u0027s not ready for adoption okay nobody so discuss with a with rod we have as you have noticed we have a few back roads who drove the back of a truck to our doctrine we are working to advertise that on a public webpage that it\u0027s more or it\u0027s clarified with everyone but we\u0027ll consider that definitely there is a support in in the room and we need to confirm Alonso on the list okay thank you thank you so next is afar thank you thank you know so this is a document that we presented last time in spring working group and at this ITF as following spring working sorry last time in MPLS working group and this time as well as in MPLS working group is certainly something that we\u0027re looking at the chairs in terms of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:39",
    "text": "home for this work the document talks about generic FAC TVs for less beeping and I am presenting on behalf of my quarters so problem statement goes as follows in MPLS for O\u0026M purposes for ping and traceroute we define effect stack sub Calvi and to date every time we define a new set type we have to go and define a new fag stack tell me and define procedure associated with it it the way that do i name because i define that it then it requires a software upgrade depending on the type of the segment ID that is deployed and then it also raises scaling issues with respect to the amount of information that are needed to properly fill the fac sub Calvi this is not to pick a specific example but this is some of the factoids that are in queue and and basically the point to show here is this is the amount of information that goes for when in purposes is large part of it is because the way that MPLS when M is designed is to always do the airplane versus control plane validation and to carry the entire information for the control plane is where the complexity and the amount of information that is required to fill in comes it is a complexity from the point of view of ingress note being able to gather this information and then carry in the packet four probe for onn probe and it\u0027s also in well has complexity for the egress because the negress has to validate a lot more information read the information gather the information do lot more processing again that information so and then we talked about that this becomes a case where for every sit type you have to define a new fact type which in reality we have defined zip-tie for which onm factoid has not been defined yet and and that is causing problem with respect within deployments so in deployments a lot of time the basic one type of fact that always work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:40",
    "text": "is new effect but it has no validation at all for no egress validation but it is consistent that no matter what sit type you have the no effect work now that is the motivation behind and then from that as the motivation we started to see that okay maybe you look at the SR CID data model and based on the data model define one fact that consistent with the data model and we focus on data plane validation and and leave the data plane to controller and consistency check King to a local procedure at the node every node has procedures to locally check its own data plane with control plane no remote node has to tell them oh by the way can you check this this is a local matter so that also lead to simplification and that is the more main motivation here signal routing is all about simplifying the operation and I think when M is not really simplifying but it is because of the the history of control derrickman validation we have complexity stay so from effect so once we take that as our data model base data model and then we define some procedures so that would lead to procedure that would be based on local at the ego site based on the local implementation maintaining a CID ID to interface mapping by any node and initiator would just put in the data field that I require like which is the segment whose the segment initiator and it can also in many cases if you can fill the endpoint address that could be used directly for validation as well and it simplifies much more and also covers binding segment or pinging a binding segment so we included that as well so your Eric fact is label fact is nothing but what is yes all said and who has assigned it and optionally adding the endpoint address and and Syd obviously as did the label the 20 bit label and the assignor is the node ID of the designer that has signed it and unless the endpoint may be set to zero when the initiator doesn\u0027t know who would be the endpoint but maybe set to the end point let\u0027s say binding Syd if the ping is for the binding said and endpoint is known however if penis to a pair religion see than the endpoint is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:40",
    "text": "not known so depending on these circumstances at the endpoint is optional so let\u0027s go over this in some cases that do not work today and how it will work with with this tactic so here we say that 16000 0 0 X is the H is the prefix it associated with algo 0 and it and the example here is using the same fact to address ping or tray straight prefix it for elbow 128 or any other elbow today we don\u0027t have this procedure today we don\u0027t have this coverage but the way it will work here is that we will the initiator 1 will carry the facts so let\u0027s say take one example at time so we want to send to paint prefix it with algo 0 then the initiator will carry the prefix 8 16 thousand and z8 the assignor is our H and the LS the end point is our 8 when the packet comes to note eighth note eighth know that it can receive this packet either on link 1 or link to it is the end point is very simple case and no date can send the response positive or negative accordingly now the same procedure would apply for flexible based prefix set labels so that says 16 128 it with a less the end point eight and the assignor are it will well exactly same way as for excel go so we can have coverage across the Fraxel group without having to define a new set type or extending the flex elbow ID in the existing track so if you take thing with the parallel agency said the payroll agency said case today is not covered by RFC because the initiator one does not know which interface the parisian see will hash to so it is a local madras seven so initiator from one would not know to hence it put zero zero zero as as the as the target value for the for the interface where it would be receiving the packet here is with this factoid would be easy because what will be carried in the in the fact is the city which is the agency said and then in this case parallel agencies in 1993 78 and the signer which is are seven and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:41",
    "text": "the LSP point in this case could be are eight but it could be zero zero zero now regardless of where the packet will go to when the packet comes to eight eight has a local table that basically say that oh this is not my local label but I receive it from my neighbor is the assignor my upstream neighbor yes does this label belongs to the of him neighbor agency said on the interface I receive the packet yes so it\u0027s good otherwise it feels it now this is improvement from the current condition because in current condition because they put the link ID to be zero zero zero it can receive the packet from any into any other neighbor and will still think that it has it has reached from the right neighbor and the validation will still pass so this is strict compared to that and then the same thing will work in the case when you have parallel agency to different neighbor in this case teledensity to neighbor 8 or neighbor 88 and the agency said associated with it 97 78 7 will do hashing based on whatever load-balancing parameter that it carries packet may end at 8 or 88 there is no end point specify 0 0 0 but when the packet received either 4 8 or 88 it can locally verify that yes this label assigned by r7 and yes the interface on which I receive the packet cross pawn to this agency said assigned by the r7 and it can respond accordingly so like I said that this requires a to carry this mapping table and then thing just to recap is that motivation here is to really go and simplify Zack type for onm operation for segment outing with this and then in such a way that we can cover all different seat types that are today or in future and we can extend this for for we can easily support it once and then we don\u0027t have to do software upgrade to define in fact I have etcetera please some already same two questions if the target fuck is edek acid you what is the procedure like you\u0027re going to use to validate it is a come home attain if it is any caste if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:42",
    "text": "is any caste you how exactly you\u0027re going to validate the so the any cars what is the recommendation so any cars can grow with the end point because you would know no and any cars said hold on a second so you have I think what we get the New York on we can take it we can take it off limb but I\u0027ve actually have cast is also prefix it so it will be any cast prefect the end point would be the any cast IP address so if I\u0027m recovering you have this validation yes performed for each of the sub link or like yes so if I am getting the final packet and I own that address it\u0027s one of my addresses it could be any case I will respond the success so in this case even if the link breaks you cannot really detect correct yes so it was meant to validate the any cost so as long as it tree has reached the end cast node it\u0027s all good okay so that means this validation really doesn\u0027t help in the case of if the targets like is the fact is there any cost effect so as long as it delivered it okay yeah Kate anthological sis purser sure the other question is how many other types of the sits you have defined so far that this generic the idea here would be to define this just one and then cover this procedure around it that that can cover all different types and is feature expendable because the element that we are going after is the yang model of the data yang model of sr so and then the target here is to really validate the data point not carry all information to carry to compare the data plane and consistently check with the control mean yeah I got that order all I\u0027m asking is so far how many of them were defined and are you going to duplicate all those which were defined so far with this new no no I mean it\u0027s not going to do again it is for then the types that are not defined yet less safe as a flex I\u0027ll go if not covered by name serious or covered there are other use cases but that are not covered but what is already defined and in RFC if is a procedure that will continue to be like this is in your depreciation here but I mean if it is going to solve the any new types upcoming new types also then that means they should solve the existing ones as well correct so if that is the case then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:42",
    "text": "you might as well just define this one and say all others you don\u0027t even have to have use it I think that would be working of decision but I think since there are deployments and all I don\u0027t think that is necessary but I mean if there are some corner cases then that means those corner cases could arise in the future definitions as well but that\u0027s yeah point it is more like a rhetorical question yeah if it is going to solve the problem of all the things which are going to coming up then you might as well keep this as the one and all of this yeah but I just do different things here like there are additional features that come with the existing fact type and those features are welcome to use for people so I think having an option is better than depreciation I pick more for that and and share theirs on the mic like some discussion we share there as well as going on for the new definitions that are coming and we\u0027re cooperating so that\u0027s why we\u0027re not asking for adoption here but more feedback and working with with with other folks like shadow and and Tariq and others yeah I totally agree with Sam that there may be corner cases because since Monday to Thursday I see that one corner case was brought up in on Monday and I\u0027d already see one more field getting added here so we might find more current yes and no i yeah yeah but I think if you remember this was presented in Montreal I had a type on the slide on Monday so this was not favored you you\u0027re welcome to check monitors right 100% please check and a percent check before making his comment please check that Tariq from juniper so far if you can go back a couple of slides where you will find the FAQ if one Oh No yeah yeah yeah so so here you\u0027re able to put in the sit the signer and the end point so you can validate on the end point or the egress you can validate the city\u0027s valid the signer is correct and we reach the end point but you don\u0027t validate what this sit is assigned to it\u0027s missing and and the last statement you said you know I\u0027m just you know capturing what you said this we\u0027re doing data plane we\u0027re really validation of you know the label is correct or actually the label is allocated correctly on the egress is allocated correctly or not so it could be an option that you want to just validate that the label is as valid and but I don\u0027t think you can deprecated the other effects that are defined it could be an option this is what my opinion is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:42",
    "text": "and I agree with Derek I agree it\u0027s not supposed to meant to depreciate anything hello we got a question from Java swoosh Hari asked if the link between around 7 and router 8 become unidirectional with the proposal be able to fight it if the link between r7 and r8 is you need know yes we the proposal be able to fight it yes I don\u0027t know I grew ignore CCT so it was very interesting your response to tarik you don\u0027t see that this generic FAQ will bring us to the point where we want to deprecated existing isolated facts No I only had different functionality I think that are able to do consistently check between the dead opening but in control but then why would we call it generic because if we have other facts that already being specified and we introduced fact that I agree it\u0027s more flexible and a future-proof why wouldn\u0027t we consider at least consider and discuss whether just make it through the generic for a sir yeah this is fine completely fine and whether we fit genetic factor label fake or find another name perfectly fine it could we can call a label factor or s our FAQ or s our genetic fact that\u0027s all perfectly fine okay just let\u0027s keep it the option okay yeah yeah this is for sure s are for question thank you hello my name is tarick i\u0027m going to introduce to you segmenting / forwarding adjacency links so this work is a collaboration between myself my colleagues Pavan and Kobi I\u0027ll go over the motivation give you a little bit of overview I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve heard about these FA links in the past and how we can enable segments routing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:42",
    "text": "on them and how we can use them and we\u0027ll talk about the next steps so we wanted to improve scalability in the SR Network by creating subpaths as our sub paths and the concatenation of these sub paths will give you the end-to-end path we want to reduce the size of the topology by you know creating these summarized or compressed links if you can think of we want to allow seamless reroute and we optimization of the sub path that does not impact the end-to-end SR path and we want to allow stitching of domains that are running different technologies signaling technologies like RSVP and NSR and still create an end-to-end as our path and we want to be able to customize that apologies that we can we export from the domain they are based on certain requirements based on SLA Zoar and so on so about a little bit about forwarding at jccc links they were introduced back in RFC 4206 they are point-to-point virtual links they can appear in ITP LS DB or into the ted traffic engineering database such links have the endpoints as the ingress and egress of the fa LSP the forwarding over the fa LSP is bound to one or more F sorry the forwarding over the fa link is to one or more fals be the fals visa as I mentioned they can be signaled using different technologies it can be SR or RSVP or static LSP for that matter they can have traffic engineering attributes or parameters and we can obviously assign them segment routing segments and and enable steering over them in terms of creation and management of such logical fa links we we think they can be configured with operator can decide they want to configure such an F a link or a controller can use any northbound interface or of our signaling protocol like P subnet confit RPC your favorite and automatically or dynamically create such links in terms of the state if the underlying LSP or at least one of them is valid and signaled then the FHFA link is operational and ready to accept traffic if a link the attributes they can be dynamically derived from the underlying LSPs or they can be overridden by the operator statically now they have a link it can be numbered or unnumbered for numbered obviously will be assigning addresses to them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:42",
    "text": "local and remote for unnumbered there will be an identifier unique on the on each endpoint typically depending on the underlying signaling of the LSP you might be able to gather the remote ID for each side for example in our an RSVP there is a way to collect it in SR there\u0027s no such way to identify the remote ID it\u0027s enough for Anna numbered link unidirectional to have the local and remote no descriptors as well as the local identifier to pin down the link now there are these symmetrical FA links basically there are links that are Co routed the LSP is underneath traverse the same path in the forward and reverse so for this you need to tie them together and the remote ID is useful in that matter so we want to enable segment routing over the FA link so that we can steer traffic on it build a segment list and allow an ingress to push traffic over such FA links the the SR architecture did lightly touch on the concept of forwarding adjacency so and I did mention that the underlying else we can be signaled by other techniques like then SR but we can still assign the FA link and adjacency or I said a segment if we do this not an obvious consequence is our segment list will be shorter obviously you can compress the long segment list with shorter segments this is something desirable once we have the FA link it\u0027s it\u0027s treated normally as any other link it\u0027s unlisted almost on this thing we show from from any physical link in the network so what type of segments we can assign to an FA link we have IG PFA links we can assign any JCC segments to them or parallel adjacency segment where your load-balancing equally or unequally for BGP FA links such that they\u0027re connecting to be GB nodes speakers we can assign an JCC segment that takes us to specific next hop BGP next op or a a peer note said it load balances on multiple possible paths to the same node and the peer set can actually take you to multiple different next hops in the set so all these are possible they\u0027re all defined already with just a reiterating that they are possible there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:42",
    "text": "is an application for this to enter the main I slightly hinted to it we can we can provide the connectivity ingress to egress using such fa links once we have that the end-to-end is just a concatenation of this fals piece to provide you the intent path you can do a full mesh of FAA links between the egress and ingress border notice or you can do a hub-and-spoke type of FA links and export that and in fact you can actually decorate these links with certain tags and we\u0027re thinking of ug or using BTW pls Maps for that matter there is a draft a best enhanced VPN or VPN enhanced VB and not even that VPN so we were thinking of using that or applying it so in terms of next steps this currently is an informational draft I did mention the remote ID is useful to identify the core outed FA link we are investigating this at the moment we might push a new extension and if that happens we will transition at the standards track we this is zero zero version we do for a solicit feedback from the working group and if you have any question I\u0027m I\u0027ll be happy to answer my first question would be would you compare this to bindings it a little bit indeed so yes and no if a link has an acid associated to it it can be a binding set of the underlying as our policy it can be but if the underlying is an RSVP LSP it would be a binding label or it can be multiple LS fees in fact so I didn\u0027t mention that but in the draft they\u0027re mentioned but binding said is one option yes what I mean was that can I solve the same problem just by binding said why would I go for this approach what\u0027s the benefit that you are offering can you so the idea is that we need advertise this in BGP LS as a link and import it into the Ted and allow anything that we can do and on any BGP LS advertisement like tagging on the link and Al are I and make it appear in the Ted right now the binding set by itself there is no standard way how you push it into the Ted so anyway one more question when would this link go down I didn\u0027t mention well I can go back but the idea is the let me go back its Peter from Cisco hi Tarek so if you remember a few years back I do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:43",
    "text": "remember we we talk about the 401 in each agency and we have somehow concluded so I just want to make sure you want to advertise this as an IG peeling right no and it\u0027s just a link in Ted into traffic engineering database I\u0027m not injecting and injecting it I\u0027m not proposing to inject it in IG p for biasing the steering of IDP it\u0027s just a traffic engineering link that will appear in the TE the database all right you know what\u0027s the difference then to a regular that\u0027s not the policy what\u0027s the difference between the regular society another so a link enough a link can have one can be supported by 1\u0027s our policy or a multiple of sr policies it can have protection or cannot have protection so there are many cases i didn\u0027t talk about them peter but so okay so this is not the traditional forwarding agency as we know it from the RSVP t so the RFC that i mentioned here talks about fa link as a traffic engineering link I do encourage I\u0027m not sure if you remember that it\u0027s an old one Peter but I reference it on the slide ok that\u0027s fine as soon as you not advertise this as a as a link in the ITB topology I\u0027m fine yes well as you start doing it you have a travel I agree and this is why I answered sisq√≥ so tarik to add to what drew was bringing I wanted to bring to our attention that we have a draft which is a working group document for exporting such links via bt pls the only difference is it\u0027s not done as a link NLRA it\u0027s done as a tea policy and indirectly but functionally it can give you the same thing so I I did come across that you are advertising the policy and its state and attributes of the policy candidate path preference in here we have a link it\u0027s it\u0027s just a link it has attributes and I can do see SPF on it and I can tag the link with with additional you know attributes or decorate the link if you want yeah so that that the I would I would suggest to if you can think about I just as a feedback to see if you want to add those on the SR policy this way the real IGP topology links and these failings do not get you know mixed up or can be viewed separately all right then let\u0027s talk about that sure we will cross the line on ribbon can you be brief reason okay my quick question Roja we use ASA apply to only as our I\u0027m cars all posts is our v6 and as I\u0027m cars so at the at the current I did say I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:43",
    "text": "mentioned MPLS but there are plans I actually in the draft I do mention that it can be applicable to SR physics as well so would be good to discuss whether you really need for these are essences or transport pass identified by biting cities absorption is good enough and actually publish draft years ago on integration of PI P n optical stuff which talks about to solve a signal is needed all right okay so UNIX is G so we have three slots related to network slicing just to be aware that there is a work going on in cheese working group related to network slicing so I\u0027m assuming that we are going to work on the generic work and I\u0027ve yesterdays have several description related to design Tina so since I are moving in T\u0027s working group and finally with a bit out of short of time so please focus on spring related stuff or the rather than arrest generic slides which are going to be working Jesus thank you okay good afternoon everyone this is Jayden from Hawaii and going to give some updates about the seminar team-based the BPM class draft on behalf of the other causes okay the background recap and I will cook for it quickly we have the framework in the teas working group and the same route is one of the candidate technology for this virtual networking instantiation which is part of the overall picture and in this document we describe the same routing based the mechanism to people to the virtual networks which is required attributes to support a VIP in class and this document made it focusing on this segment out in theta playing mechanisms and the possible extensions and it is applicable to both SRV amperes and sr e6 for the control plane extensions I think this we will be discussing in relevant out working groups and with other separate documents okay here are some analysis about the current segment routing using similarity was designed for the South\u0027s regime and the see the least is used to specify the nodes and links should be the traffic rule along the path and the current status the services will share the same group of sees and currently they cannot differentiate Rafic using the seeds but the question is a second routing can we create as it\u0027s customized the virtual networks but the second question is setting the routing currently it does now to take the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:43",
    "text": "resource reservation into the consideration so that this is just a steal of traffic along the past it\u0027s a link level granularity traffic steering and the basically it can rely on the tips of us for the traffic differentiation it may be good enough for some existing services but always think there are gaps and the challenges for them services like the 5g critical applications so that the other question is how can we achieve the guaranteed are more predictable SLA with similarity okay here is the proposal in this draft basically we introduced the topology and resource information into the same semantics we can use the seeds to identify the topology and the data playing so we can use differences to identify the same node a link in the different network topologies au notation we can also use the C\u0027s to represent a subset of natural resource allocated to a particular virtual network or network slice we see this is an abstraction of the different mechanisms in the end early to provide you to guarantee the resource isolation and it\u0027ll guarantee the performance so this is a good abstraction of different mechanisms in underlay and with this mechanism we can use these different guru prophecies to create a different network slices or virtual networks and which lists in different virtual networks the traffic will go through the isolated topology with isolated resource so that we can keep other so traffic in different slices separated and not interfere each other okay here is a similar mechanism for SR v6 I think every six we need to use different two locators to identify the different network topologies and on the same node or links and the C\u0027s I thought we succeed basically to be inherits the topology identification from the locator and in addition we can also add this resource semantics to the locator and C\u0027s to represent the subset of resource in the an array here are the updates since last presentation ITF we had new closers and updated affiliations of some authors we also add the references to the narrow slicing definition 3gpp and also doing the beeping plus framework and this one we also clarify that the C\u0027s can identify the topology and may represent the Associated resource so that we provide a unified a diplomat nism for both soft and as hard isolation they also resolve the receivers review comments and there are some editorial changes to make it more readable and updates to the reference okay for the next steps I think we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:43",
    "text": "received some further comments which are we can solve them in the next version and we think the framework has been adopted in TS and it\u0027s gets more true a towards the working group last call and so for this document we already work on this since early 2018 and the contents of this draft is also getting stable we already see many interest from operators to have a signal routing based natural slicing solution so we have raised this working group adoption request to the mini list and would like to hear the opinions from the wing group okay so was right the draft 1520 who believe it\u0027s a good start for working document notice aim we believe it\u0027s not a good start for working with document one person to person okay so we there has been a new design team in India rated to network sizing so I think it would be good to wait a bit on the outcome of the design team because I expect these two engine or defines the network slicing subject and then we can work on what spring as or does not have to oxidize things can be relatively hot from the work in the design team because we already have the framework of the vaping past in the teeth and we think this is a solution for the iam class and one of the use case is natural slicing so this is based on this current current status maybe we can no need to rely on this progressing the design team I also am at first and yes also some comments on the draft starting with an Emma so crew sees a bit of marketing its could be useful to know what is added so my guess is a network partitioning VPN against is not really the scope of the working group and I not sure it worked is about VPNs so maybe the introduction on the title and also best fit so there are different terms used and the shoulder means the same single notes such as network slicing VPN yes will network as a consequence it\u0027s not very clear for example it\u0027s not very clear if you\u0027re asking for VPN States in the core no VP stays yes but you clear yeah we can clarify this in the framework the VP plus is the term framework is an integration of their overlay VPN Daniel a network so we call the waiting pass but it is not either overlay on and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:44",
    "text": "expose and don\u0027t do you think it could be a better phrase that\u0027s a way to partition network resources in spring or signaling networks to avoid the term VPN on our we will consider thank you so as a member of design team it\u0027s not the intention to define technology as such the focus is northbound API and programmatic interface between higher-level business logic and underlying controller catherine de tomate associate with it so we are not going to work on this specifically and since certainly there is do we are trying to align on meaning of transporter networks lives would be actually good to kind of Express same meaning when we use same words and please think about it you\u0027re part of design team as well so we we work together right nothing right right yeah I would also contribute to the design team we think this work and also if what is outside the scope of the design team we can work on date in some ways house phone teen farmer trainer mobile now fabric you my family is about to into the commercial yesterday tree in China Mobile we have ratified the many other case also Network us lysine satirize last month great the idea with your video are into the mobile no surgery and so on kudus record cooler with I was helping you achieve that they are many niggas always asking you for network us try seeing these nice draft provides the eye surface the teat applying I think a third day the good idea Thank You Elka designer Adrian are you part of the nine or hi I\u0027m Afra Maliki I agree with Jeff I\u0027m a member of the SLS Dillon team this is out of the scope of the design team and we have on neurotechnology about I saw later we will do the prairies come here with yes I have a three announced the requestors the first is compared with your activity our jobs as soon as the air is no more new technology I don\u0027t know what she young meaning of this disrupt as a standard structure and it\u0027s a second question is for ITP extensions I think this is opening questions and it is also to your child has some references with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:48",
    "text": "your in a video control a draft but I think in his opening questions we should to further discussing and we also have potential for control a shaft so I am now think it is the second question is Celeste resources we first introduced society forceless resource management and our solution can differ in state for example I\u0027ll true link and I was three phase you know draft how to compute asabi or as a cheap-ass according to society comp and with count with other criterias I think this is not very clear in your chest and the our draft we have described it maybe you could reply on the list just I want to maybe emphasize that this is a draft about as Sigma out in theta playing the controlling belongs to other separate documents this is we want to show the extension to the semantics of the see we got previously is just to identify no darlink we give the finer granularity of this resources on the link and or the virtual topology on the node so this is the extension to the data plane bought your corporate raft can we move that to the list please okay could you send your comment to the recipes but I agree we need a better structure of a document in ability to network slicing Robin I think has been captain cragen from Cisco Systems so I\u0027m also part of the network size design team in T\u0027s and one watching scope is the requirements as well as the framework for network slicing so we need to make some progress and I think G is also part of the networks like the same design team as well so G knows very well that we need to make progress on the requirements as well as the framework so I think we we agree agree with Bruno that let\u0027s wait a little bit more to solidify the those aspects well most easy T the paradigm of network slicing includes several models for resource sharing my understanding that VPN pass concentrates only on a subset of this use cases and includes the isolated resources so there are another set of use cases where resources are shared so I would encourage to work on the model that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:52",
    "text": "includes all use cases not just one address in VPN plus yeah I think here we have a one clarification that this data plan can provide either soft or hard isolation which means the resource can be either shared or isolated but we can use an unified data plane by the control plane information would be different for different requirement well again it\u0027s it\u0027s not that simple and III think that resources are of different flavors so we\u0027re not only talking about connectivity resources there are other resources and we need a way to express them especially if you want to have combined our hard and soft isolation discussed more yeah that\u0027s right nice didn\u0027t Curtis I know we\u0027re late Zafar so we need to discuss on the list between definitely need to sync with this working group on you need to refine the scope of your draft on make the title abstractor introduction in line with the scope so if it\u0027s about the piano maybe it\u0027s not for spring if it\u0027s not about the piano maybe refrigerator partitioning network resources I have some other commands but I\u0027ll Alice a little thank you Thank You Luna okay we all battle a bit late so if she can gain some diamonds would be even better excellent sanction okay try to do it in five minutes so the objective of this draft is to outline a start by outlining the building block for slicing that already exists in SR Network and then see the gaps and how we can address those gaps so it\u0027s not this elaborate what are the building blocks and how we can use it for network slicing so here\u0027s the list initial list so we have support for SR policies vigor without flex I\u0027ll go then we have notion of flux I\u0027ll go now first I see we also have notion of doing TLS a within a slice under less slice we have notion of carrying various sleeping services that is also provides separation among the customers and then support for service programming onn p.m. and the QoS aspects and orchestration so these are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:54",
    "text": "some of the building block up I have shorten time so go fast so let\u0027s think of as a policy first so as our policy is a way that we can take a common network and can steer traffic that would satisfy a certain requirement for example low latency or disjointness we have ability to do path calculation for different optimization criteria and ability to isolate certain type of path from the other we have support for the ODN and support for automatic steering into the SL policy and SR policies can spend multiple domains and this is something which has been widely deployed in segment outing Network then we have notion of flexible algorithms which associate intent to a prefix it and it allows IDP to compute path constraint part based on the intent so let\u0027s say low latency flex Algol hooligans is right and then IDP is able to run csdf to satisfy the intent in in in and it is a way to create provision networks price with different intent then we have notion of LFA and micro avoidance but the beauty here is that when we do TL FA for flexible I\u0027ll go the backup part only uses the resources that belongs with there you go so primary and backup both uses individual slice of the network then we have believed to carry very different type of SR VPN services like l3 VPN we PWS VPLS and even TN services that provide various level of separation of services from a customer point of view or different customers can can have different different type of service differentiation or service isolation within the within the from a common underlay notion of service programming allows customers to do traffic engineering or in ten days routing not only through topological segments but also through programmable service programming like network appliances and support for the NF ease and service function chaining along with topological segments bound to a specific "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:54",
    "text": "slice yes actually you existed you\u0027re out but I think your first slide was very interesting yeah it\u0027s a good summary of all the tools we have in spring to fulfill some requirement from Network slicing maybe one thing which is missing is what is missing actually in spring - what is missing what tool is missing in spec or what tools are missing in spring to fulfill the requirements so again we may need to to wait for all the feedback from his design team but I think it\u0027s a good start to see what we are okay thank you but it\u0027s already interested also interesting to see what we not we don\u0027t have one part could be a segregation of resources within the network and og just very similar to previous command it\u0027s a greater variant routing can do but it\u0027s neither correct nor complete definition of what network slice is so yes terminology correctly it could be used a subset of what we are trying to do is network slicing but this is not the network sizing and don\u0027t call it this way it\u0027s really wrong so please send comments in yeah for sure okay please person comment on the list yes comments from like Jin Cheng Li from China Mobile please every source segment presented by jade on to the building blocks thanks yes so you\u0027re using time out of the next presentation to say do go to the next presentation but okay so we\u0027ll move to the next presentation please send the comment on the list thank you thank you so make please please make it make you sneaky thought we were already at two presentation and Network slices so please summarize that on what what is a big difference of your proposal fully know if you can make it at four minutes it\u0027s it\u0027s even better I read about the an authority from Hanna mobile now I will talk about Michael Annett Walker Selassie you\u0027ll see a second mini routine the into Internet workers rights include the design the pious rated PG include the ranks light red cows land and cow slaughter now I will focus on the red powder Network catalyze the F I will in a major the cramming the first of all is that educator what children works the second one is the into engines Lyceum the third "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:54",
    "text": "one is unifying the ESI the first and the time is the traffic engineering the last my is last relate to as well as the last training results of Hattie school they are also some Disney ID the first but they could allowed to meet all of the a parameter so I will reduce the new base to the new the new slice slice paste at the first how to administer it her when he stains the added affirm our AI for short is the appreciate the work your network added fiction it could be used as a trade panel and workers lives I didn\u0027t turn it turn indicates that apology computing and the storage resources also the educator what he\u0027ll network yeah is the identifier of the dedicated to virtual network for the slice it kudus about into end slicing a decoder also identifying the Univ an in at the arm it is a wonderful knocking trying to criteria of color template and the tan color complains with a I provide more exporting to it a determinant also the eyes 18 to main touching in Altoona teaching kristopher wooten not aware as prefix the way opa-locka teacher i so there is no modification for the corrodium plan where is the Adama Alfred in solution the collectors who collect the collector the controller collects the results information with the AI while PP our eyes and establish the Congress bounty as our what he\u0027ll network and the calculator the past according to the color with the AI there the truth the politic read and write and also a is could it be a defect are for trade apart and networks alliance results at the first the this responsibles soft and hard and hard a solution for the lace rate interface lies a solution in a GP domain each neighbors are a nevertheless raining could be kept in court with the AI information and recognize them among the addition across the Aegean Linga state database narrow to contain unless readings with the a are two spouts the te pass computation taken account also the aircrack area for the line tool in the faceless as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:54",
    "text": "nation yet relied to never link of Orleans repellent police reported link could be crapping word with the AI and the artisans it the line to memory in cook to the P of legacy of life is eternal all his Montano and I know other such as other other in the face type in the curriculum the routine protocol packet following the last readings select the line tool never link with the highest superiority at the same time in the following in the forwarding applying the packet repel intruders versus vehicle what he\u0027ll network we\u0027re passed along the line tool and burning with the specifically reduce the past computation you know a based on the linker stated in the base we\u0027re inside we are in spikes that detailed plan to never link also our last three are teasing tools sexism at the park later they are linked and results excuse me you we won\u0027t have time to go into the details but basically the same commands we have to start with the result of the cheese working with design team to see what we have to do in general for network slices and then we need to focus on what we have on what we don\u0027t have force premium we may need to wait for the design team to know what we have to do then we can start identify what we are in the spring mostly in that airplane and what we don\u0027t have and then we can work work on what we don\u0027t have [Music] producer meeting is on really all the time no no you won\u0027t be bitch we were the other time so again most of networks lies work is to be starting the design team please work more and then we can work and what to dismiss what is missing in spring okay if you have comments please send of the list I\u0027m very sorry I think we are finished I\u0027m very sorry for the next slide less presentation a slicer much improved there was an audio description in the new MPs about working group so it has been presented but the drafts that means "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:57",
    "text": "now to be aligned with the slides because I don\u0027t think they are aligner so maybe there is a work to be done on the draft following a discussion during this meeting it\u0027s finished so thank you for your time and see you in in Vancouver Vancouver "
  }
]