[
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "hello wow this is much louder than the last one if I could get everybody\u0027s attention please alright so welcome to the working your chairs forum Nils has agreed to take notes we are going this is on meet echo this time I know there\u0027s been some confusion in the past about whether or not the work newt chairs forum was going to be a remote participant available or not but it will be so it would also be helpful if somebody I expect very little chat prescribing but if the jabber scribe would be necessary or somebody who\u0027s willing to do that that\u0027s a good question what\u0027s the jabber room I actually don\u0027t know I should look at that can you look at that we\u0027re looking at that that\u0027s actually yeah you know these things you don\u0027t think about in advance so in any event just a reminder this is actually still the IETF so the note well still applies go ahead Barry thanks this is Barry well we should make a jabber room called WG chairs and that room should be running all the time for chairs to just drop in and chat whenever they feel like it oh that\u0027s a really good idea you put that in the notes so in the meantime our agenda for today we\u0027re going to have an IPR update from George and Michelle is going to talk to us about I Anna and said we\u0027re going to start off with George Contreras I didn\u0027t want to say a couple quick things for those of you who don\u0027t know George has actually been the ietf lawyer for 20 years I bet some of you might not have known we actually have one so and he will be stepping down from that position at the end of December so the first thing I would like to do is to thank him for his 20 years of service and with that he\u0027s going to tell us about our IPR update I don\u0027t know if you\u0027ve presented now chef before but stand in the pink box so this is not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "doing anything so they\u0027ve they have corrected me on my process okay did I do that yeah okay okay works thanks a lot yes I\u0027m Jorge Contreras I have worked with Scott Brandner over the years on the IPR policies for IETF and so the reason we thought we would have this session today is because we spent the last seven years updating DCP 79 which used to be RFC 39 71 79 which just got finalized earlier this year right so a lawyer I can give you a disclaimer right this is just a summary talk to your own lawyer read the rules if you have any real questions but this is just an overview of what we\u0027re doing here right so ITF has been around for a while has a long history of different patent policies and what we kind of have today is based on RFC 2026 which was like 22 years old but as I said you know we started to do some revisions about seven years ago there are a lot of little glitches in the existing policy and so we collected a lot of input talk to a lot of people a lot of lawyers from a lot of companies and finally earlier this year we published a revision and already as I was preparing the slides for this talk I found some typos so you know we\u0027re gonna start all over somebody can start all over and you know the next time so we haven\u0027t changed the basic rule the IETF since 2026 which is that an IETF we have a strong disclosure requirement for patents we don\u0027t have a licensing requirement right this is different than many standards organizations it\u0027s different than I Tripoli different than w3c and in fact IETF is relatively unique in the way it\u0027s IP our policy works so we\u0027ve got a strong disclosure obligation if you participate in IETF you have to disclose patents that you know about we\u0027ll talk about that means that you or your sponsor meaning your employer control and you have to disclose them if they cover a contribution that you make to IETF we\u0027ll talk about what a contribution is a contribution that somebody else makes that you know about or you or have the option to what to disclose patents about anything else an IETF that you want to write that being said you don\u0027t have to search your company\u0027s patent portfolio and your company\u0027s lawyers don\u0027t it\u0027s a search their portfolio this is all limited to your own knowledge I guess I\u0027ve got a slide on that okay so who has to follow this policy really everyone who participates in IETF and it if you don\u0027t read legal documents a lot there\u0027s a clue here right if a word is capitalized that means it\u0027s a special "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "defined term and I will talk about it in more detail and it\u0027s got a definition right in the policy right so what is participating in IETF mean we spent a ton of time discussing this it really means doing anything active at IETF that is intended to influence the standard setting process right so obviously submitting a written document an ID or even your comments on a mailing list edits to a document all of those are contributions and that means you\u0027re participating but if you\u0027re standing in a meeting and speaking at the mic if you\u0027re yelling out suggestions to a document from the back of the room you\u0027re acting as a working group chair relevant for this group or an ad all of those things mean you\u0027re participating in ITF so the rules apply to you what took a lot of time and a lot of debate was what do you do about lurkers right the people who stand in the back of the room and don\u0027t say a thing they just take notes right or someone who\u0027s on a mailing list and doesn\u0027t say anything we decided reached consensus that simply lurking does not trigger the obligations if you\u0027re sitting in the back of the room you don\u0027t say anything to influence the standard-setting process even if you know you have a patent you don\u0027t have to disclose it we\u0027d love for you to disclose it but we didn\u0027t want just the fact that you stepped into a room automatically to cloak you with some sort of obligation to disclose patents all right okay so what is the contribution talk about this a little bit anything that you submit to the IETF any of these statements anything intended to affect the IETF standards process this can be something you say at the plenary a tab off on a mailing list in a chatroom in jabber all of these things you know something that you say outside you know in the hotel and the corridor it\u0027s not intended to influence the IETF activity in terms of standards development we generally don\u0027t consider those to be contributions okay one of the updates that we made to the policy this go-around that again took an awful lot of discussion was oral contributions they\u0027re always pretty clear what you do when somebody submits an ID or edits the document or contributions are much trickier you can get up at the mic and you might just have a brainstorm a brilliant idea and propose something after you see somebody else\u0027s slide well you know it might not occur to you that you are in Ventura patent hum that covers that thing that you just said so we have some options for you right we do want a disclosure about that thing about the patent that you have because when you said your contribution at the mic it could end up being part of the specification so either you know say at the mic and you know I\u0027m about to say something and my company has a patent on it or follow it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:28",
    "text": "up right very quickly once you get back to your desk in your computer and you know have your company lawyer make the the IPR declaration okay so what patents have to be disclosed basically every patent that you know about that\u0027s controlled by you or your company that covers one of these contributions right this includes patent applications IETF is a little different than many standards organizations in that we do apply this requirement to applications control basically you own it or you get some financial benefit from it and then down at the bottom is sort of the most important thing and the one that gets the most discussion around here which is what does it mean to know that you\u0027ve got a patent right we have this phrase it\u0027s got to be reasonably and personally known to the ietf participant that means you sitting here in the room not your in-house legal staff you know back in Santa Clara those people obviously are going to know about the patents but if you the person sitting in the room and ITF doesn\u0027t know about it you\u0027re not required to disclose it that being said if you deliberately decide that you want to be ignorant of all patents covering all of your work at your company you know then we get into you know whether it\u0027s reasonable that you didn\u0027t know about the patent generally here\u0027s a rule of thumb if you\u0027re listed as an inventor on the patent you know even if you forgot about it or never read it or understood it when your lawyer sent it to you you are deemed to know about it should we take Christmas yeah yeah okay yeah I\u0027m John marks had a question about covers I\u0027ve run into a situation sometimes where there\u0027s like a non you know normative you know motivating example section like here\u0027s an example architecture that might use the specification of people if there\u0027s IPR on that this is not anything normative for the specification but it is an illustrative use of it does that mean to be this need to be disclosed I get obviously it could be but doesn\u0027t need to be it should be yeah yeah it should be right and this the because patents are generally written pretty broadly right so the claims are probably gonna cover more than your lust furtive example right they\u0027re probably gonna cover the general case which is what is gonna be in the specification so yes this is Barry can you can you cover the necessarily part of that yeah sure so necessarily means it has to be infringed right you can\u0027t implement it in any way other than infringing the patent right that\u0027s so you know in sort of standards patent policy terms you know this is often called essential patent claims right you can\u0027t implement the standard without infringing this patent if there are five ways to implement the standard and the patent covers just one of them well then you don\u0027t have to infringe the patent right you can work around it so these are only the ones that must be infringed I\u0027ve been Campbell clarifying question "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:30",
    "text": "on that some standards have optional features a lot of our way of thinking the IETF is you know we still say that a reference and a optional feature is still normally if we consider the optional feature normative to the to the specification but from what you just said I as an implementer could implement the standard without implementing that optional feature or it is that would seem to imply that a disclosure of something infringed by an optional feature is not required and that surprises me so so unlike a number of s SEOs we do require that you disclose patents if they are essential to an optional feature so is that does that answer the question okay great all right all right let\u0027s keep oh yeah I\u0027m just reading it right down here okay okay we\u0027ll keep plowing ahead okay who has to disclose right so ITF is another or has another unique feature among standards groups in that participation is just by individuals companies don\u0027t sign up companies out of membership companies don\u0027t pay dues companies don\u0027t sign anything I mean as a lawyer it took me you know probably my first ten years representing ITF to sort of get over that and get used to it but I\u0027m very comfortable with it now you know individuals are bound that being said we know that many people work for companies so you know what our theory is here it hasn\u0027t been tested in court yet our theory is that if your company pays to fly you out to Singapore and puts you up in a hotel they are consenting to your being here you are representing them and so they ought to comply with our policies as well but it\u0027s really up to the individual to make sure that these disclosures happen right there\u0027s not you know we don\u0027t have a feed to the legal departments and all the companies the in-house lawyers that your company they\u0027re not going to know that they need to disclose something it\u0027s up to the individual engineer and if there\u0027s something that you can\u0027t disclose right because it\u0027s a secret a trade secret and your company saying you know you can\u0027t tell anybody but we can\u0027t tell anybody we\u0027re getting these patents well then you should just not make the contribution at IT effort if you can\u0027t disclose the patent you just shouldn\u0027t be telling us about it right the disclosure the patent is is an important piece and you know at working groups you know and we\u0027ll get to this you are entitled to consider it on the patents that are disclosed so they have to be disclosed early while the working group is still working right and so you know we\u0027ve had cases where disclosures are taking years after the working groups have finished and that\u0027s not compliant that\u0027s a violation of the policy right so you\u0027re there\u0027s a timing peace disclosure as soon as reasonably possible after the contribution is is published as an internet draft for the oral contributions as soon as possible after it\u0027s being made this is pretty quick correct for your own "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "contribution you submitted as an infographic or you email a list and then the you know the comments to the list end up in a document that is then published as an internet draft you know at that point you you could make your disclosure before that it\u0027s fine if you do it\u0027s a preferable if you do but at least it should be as soon as possible after publication as the ID when you see somebody else making a contribution that you have a patent that covers you know we understand you probably need time to go back to your legal department and say hey you know this guy just published something or just posted something on a list and I think you know we have a patent that covers it you know that\u0027s gonna take time for you to discuss internally and decide whether or not you\u0027re gonna make a disclosure so you can take longer but you know the rule of thumb that we\u0027ve used is days not months but you know there\u0027s obviously some flexibility or depending on how complicated it is okay more on timing um you might not be aware right I mean in good faith you might not know that a patent is in the works especially if you\u0027re not an inventor on it but it\u0027s somebody else in your group at your company you know again as soon as reasonably practical is the is the standard okay so what do you have to disclose we\u0027ve changed a few things in in this one important thing that we\u0027ve added that we didn\u0027t have before is that you need to disclose the inventor right the inventor of the patent this is the key piece of information that will tell working group members work of repairs ATS whether you know that person that inventor is working on other stuff at ietf when we didn\u0027t have this it\u0027s obviously you know this information is in the public domain you can go to the Patent Office website you can look up the number look up the title of the patent and find out what the inventors are but that\u0027s a lot of trouble it is much much easier if the inventors are listed right in your disclosure at if you know and then there\u0027s other information obviously the number the application number you know some patent applications in the u.s. anyway they\u0027re not published until 18 months after they\u0027re filed if that\u0027s the case we don\u0027t require you to disclose the confidential information in the application but you should really say what the title is and at least you know say that the application is unpublished and then update your disclosure once the thing does get published another important piece of this that other standards bodies don\u0027t necessary Choir is it you need to tell us what if\u0027 document is covered by this package not just because patent I have it covers something going on at the ITF that\u0027s not that\u0027s not so helpful you have to tell us what RFC or what ID it is and if it\u0027s a long one and it\u0027s not immediately obvious which piece of it which section "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:30",
    "text": "of the documents covered by your patent tell us that - where I tell us a section number of the ITF document that\u0027s affected okay one easy thing that companies like to do sometimes to say you know we\u0027re a big company we have thousands of patents some of these might be relevant to stuff happening at places like IETF those that is not a compliant disclosure it\u0027s easy isn\u0027t fun as it is to make you need to include the details we just had on this one all right the only time when these blank disclosures are okay is if that statement is followed by a statement that says and we will not assert these patents against it\u0027s anyone or we will not charge anyone for these patents we\u0027ll license and royalty-free if you say that then it matters less that we can\u0027t figure out what patents your company has right so the only time blank disclosures are okay is if you\u0027re going to commit to license that all of your patents royalty-free and some companies actually take that option and that\u0027s that\u0027s a good thing again the reason is that the working groups do need information about these patents to what to evaluate technical choices that are being made and on a day to day basis okay so there are other disclosures you can make we have a section in the IPR disclosure page for general disclosures right these are a number of things sort of the you know resting place for disclosures that were not compliant with the policy right you didn\u0027t say what RFC it applied to it was a blanket disclosure you know this information you\u0027re not complying with the policy and there might be penalties for that but it\u0027s still useful information for IETF to have so we still publish that stuff you know you can also put up a safe that says you know we will license all patents at this company you know for one cent per product write anything you want to say about patents and IPR will we\u0027ll post in this other section just so that people have information but it doesn\u0027t necessarily mean that it is it\u0027s going to be compliant or that you\u0027re complying with the policy and it\u0027s in the basically the RFC editors discretion whether or not to post it you can\u0027t post scurrilous information or defamatory material you know about that your competitors or your friends right and we get we do get those sometimes but we do not post them all right so we added a lot of stuff about updating disclosures and I won\u0027t go into that in detail you know basically it\u0027s just sort of common sense right you you have a patent application you know you\u0027re fighting with a patent examiner for three years and your claims change radically during that time you know if they change in such a way that different ITF documents are covered or not covered you know then you should update the the disclosure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:31",
    "text": "it\u0027s just happen a lot but but sometimes it does and it can be important and there are other events that should occasion an update of a disclosure so what if you don\u0027t do this right oh yeah sorry do you want to connect to the update on updating when I last checked there wasn\u0027t a way to say this patent or that sorry this that our disclosure no longer applies to this document I didn\u0027t see any way to do that before is there a way to do that now probably not but there should be if that\u0027s in the notes I will take that back to who um you know - so the yeah the interface all suggestions welcome right it\u0027s it\u0027s not perfect but yeah that that\u0027s a good change we definitely should make the Gmail I expect there is an automatic inheritance when draft blood becomes draft bloodless wand right I was wondering if there is an automatic inheritance when draft personal submission blood becomes draft ITF blah and then becomes RFC or I should need to renew some know generally we mean we don\u0027t ask people to update you know certainly not with version changes you know because it\u0027s pretty obvious it\u0027s your patent applied to version - oh oh it\u0027s gonna bite one when the name actually changes you know we generally be gentle don\u0027t because as long as you can trace the other family tree of the docking RFC you know abc123 came from these three different internet drafts the truck from Arab seat I received from draft HF from rough personal if this is clearly indicated in the path field in the ATF tools I don\u0027t have to update yeah if you can if it\u0027s if it\u0027s traceable you you do not have to make if it\u0027s still correct yes you should become but it it should still be documented in the shepherding right up for the as it goes into the art as it goes into the publication process there\u0027s part of the shepherding right up is what IPR declarations apply and so whoever\u0027s doing that is gonna need to figure out all of the ones that apply to those documents yep Thomas rahi a question what happens if you\u0027re the inventor of a patent which was published when we you are working for another organization who has the obligation to report and also you probably have more trouble reporting the license terms and stuff like that right yeah yeah right so right so you have a patent you got a patty you work for company a company a has the patent now you work for Company B you\u0027re still working at at IDF so the obligation only applies to patents that you control or that your current employer controls because you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:32",
    "text": "know it\u0027s it\u0027s it would be nice but it\u0027s not necessarily fair to require you to go remember patents from your previous employer who Questor knows what they did they might have sold them they might have been invalidated by the patent officer many things could happen and you don\u0027t necessarily know that and as long as you don\u0027t have you don\u0027t still have a financial interest in it like you might but if you\u0027re an inventor you might still have some royalty interest you know that comes from the patent back at company a if that\u0027s the case then you still have to disclose it but if you\u0027re just separated completely it was a complete work for high or company a has all the rights then you know you can disclose it but it would be sort of like disclosing somebody else\u0027s IPR like you know I happen to know that that company X out there has a patent that covers you know these things and we get those disclosures and and they\u0027re useful but it\u0027s not an obligation thanks John thanks one issue I know came up recently about updating documents is when there\u0027s a BIST version of an RFC ok yeah I mean this particular there\u0027s a there was an RFC that had a number of IPR declarations on it people are writing a BIST version of that RFC and the Cheras pointed out recently hey nobody founded me i PR director Ison\u0027s on this what\u0027s up so so the I think the people were assuming that it would carry over but actually it doesn\u0027t from a from a previous RFC to the bits of the RFC why wouldn\u0027t it carry you all I mean maybe it does they didn\u0027t need to do anything but wasn\u0027t cleared I would think it\u0027s just like the previous think the question about the IDS that went into the RTI I would think that if it\u0027s I would think of this version clearly clearly applies because innocently we\u0027ve got the same number as long as you can trace it it\u0027s so I came up to address the same thing so I\u0027ll add a little context on that there\u0027s Ben Campbell again in our data tracker when you go from individual draft to draft working group O one o2o3 there is a traceability there they all have this replaces information that says that we do not have traceability information in the tools for an RFC that updates or obsolete to previous RFC and so what you cannot just assume you know the theis that someone who goes and does an IPR search and I disclosure search against RFC fou biz is going to find [Music] disclosures against RFC fou and maybe that\u0027s wrong I think that\u0027s worth discussing discussing but that\u0027s where the tools are now and that\u0027s the state we\u0027re living with now I would argue actually that when we have an RFC that updates at previous RFC it\u0027s hard to know if previous light there I still come to apply because we\u0027ve seen changes have been made but that\u0027s you know but that makes it situational but anyway I don\u0027t want to get the argument but where the tool should do that\u0027s what right now they don\u0027t have any traceability there so I think right now we still need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "redisclosure new RFC figs if you\u0027re working on this new RFC that updates the previous RFC and the the case I think that Jonathan was talking about the way the chairs handled it was a publication time they reminded the working group that there had been disclosures on the previous RFC and just like with any disclosure we leave it to the workgroup to decide if that\u0027s a problem or not or whatever and so that was disclosed to them and I think the problem is dealt with by doing that but I think it\u0027s very easy for people to forget to do that since the tools they\u0027ll automatically make it happen yeah well number one week I\u0027ll look at the notes and if we a running list of things to give to the tools team and you know we should do that but you know I don\u0027t know I mean my assumption and probably wrong right that abyss version is pretty is like just minor changes to some sometimes yes sometimes no the the distinction here that that Ben was making is that a human look at the chain can see that the disc document updates the other ones the the automated tooling doesn\u0027t trace it back so which way do we need to go with that right number one the tool probably should and so we should you know so just to interject a real quick question here so the the intention is that the intention is that it does and the question about what the tools are doing is a separate issue yes yes this is all Lisa with huawei I just wanted to point out that the draft replaces by links require effort to be inserted I mean I very common to see cases where there\u0027s clearly a route graph that was replaced her personal draft or whatever or personal Grafton\u0027s replaced by a differently named personal draft or whatever and there were places by links are not present because nobody\u0027s entered them because it\u0027s a manual process [Music] process so yeah we said there should be a reminder of the working group chairs that doesn\u0027t need to do that David black wanted some caution with the way and no person president and by the way that been embarrassing around the word update we use update for all kinds of stuff ranging from full and complete replacement to oh we got to do a minor tweak here so let\u0027s be very careful if we actually track down every single update link we\u0027re gonna hire will get a pile of stuff there\u0027s just that is just plain peripheral so this this may be similar to what although the da nice like just said which is that in addition to it which is that we need more attention to replaced by links including we placed in RFC Lenora P right and in our Terms what we were really talking about was obsoletes rather than updates yeah yep and you would hope that the obsoleting RFC was a different enough technology the people would have just made their new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:35",
    "text": "disclosures respect to that but no okay David Marr competing opinion at the mic so people one can get it on remote on the recording so George\u0027s comment was G so replace ought to be complete change you know it\u0027s often the case that there\u0027s a fairly strong relationship it\u0027s like verge and true it so it\u0027s a whole brand new doc but it\u0027s to put them like doing the same thing yeah yeah we we should have a good way to link back the disclosures I mean I think that that\u0027s something oh okay okay no I\u0027m running out of time and I\u0027m probably out of time but okay okay anyway look failure to disclose just disclose their penalties for not doing it RC 6701 the iesg put together a list of potential penalties for bad behavior including you know everything from you know posting privileges suspension to not being asked back to the next meeting right so you can take a look at that there are also legal consequences for companies so well on that so licensing right licensing IETF does not require that you license the patents that are disclosed or say how you\u0027re going to license them we\u0027d like you to but it\u0027s not required all we have is a general preference that patents be license royalty-free if possible but working groups can decide great working groups can decide to adopt a technology that has IPR claims or royalty bearing if it\u0027s if it\u0027s worth it if the technology is good that\u0027s why we ask for the disclosure so working groups can make that decision about whether or not this is the right technological way to go alright so in the IPR disclosure form we have sort of a free form text box where you or your company can cut and paste whatever licensing statement you want to put in there and we get a wide variety of these some that say we\u0027re just not going to enforce these patents you know different types of licensing some saying we\u0027re not gonna tell you and some just say I\u0027ve actually seen this recently here\u0027s a patent that we are we do not intend to license right why might this be well you know somebody else might have duck your patented technology into a standard and you never wanted it to be in that standard but there\u0027s nothing to stop someone from contributing in any way then you might just say well you know I\u0027m not gonna license it this was something I wanted to keep proprietary and so there are good reasons for each of these types of statements whoops whatever here and this is a second westlife other things that you talk about in the licensing box right are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "what kind of royalty structure you\u0027re gonna have some people are very detailed about this others aren\u0027t defensive suspension saying you know I\u0027m gonna I want to start this patent unless you sue me for patent infringement then you know no holds barred or I\u0027ll license you my patent if you license me back your other patents that you know cover the standard recover any ITF standard or that cover anything in the world you know the breadth of that is your choice the whole variety of you know you can tap your royalties you can put other terms in there but whatever you say in that licensing box people are going to read and they\u0027re going to depend on so you can\u0027t change it right this is a no take-backs situation if you say we\u0027re licensing these patents royalty-free to anybody who wants them unless you sue us for patent infringement you know you can\u0027t take that back it becomes irrevocable legally and that is something that actually a number of standards organizations are doing and so we are sort of jumping on that bandwagon again to give people assurance that if they see a licensing statement in an IPR disclosure they can rely on it you\u0027re not going to change your mind unless you want to make it more liberal right if you said will license this patent for five percent and then you want to give it away for free you know that\u0027s okay because no one is going to be hurt by that but if you disclosed and we\u0027re gonna you know license this patent for free and then next year your company decides actually we\u0027d kind of like 5% royalties on it that is not okay right you can\u0027t up the amount that people have to pay that being said these are just disclosures right working groups and working group chair should not be out there trying to negotiate down license rates or just you know license terms with patent holders s something that gets done outside of ITF it sounds to me like the GPL 2 or later version thing the statement is basically you can take this one or you can take any other statement we\u0027ve made in here you choose which one you want - yes license it um yeah that\u0027s a good analogy yeah and the copyright side that that\u0027s exactly right yeah and then just just bear in mind you know the often it\u0027s dreams we split up these documents dreams a number of years ago this policy is for IETF documents IETF streamed documents right if you\u0027re working in an IRT F group or submitting something through what used to be called the independent stream right now the RFC editor stream these rules kind of apply that\u0027s up to the editors of those streams and I think for most practical purposes it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty much the same but they have the ability if they want you to change the rules and exactly how that works and how they\u0027re doing that is a little bit up in the air but for you know for the most part I wouldn\u0027t worry too much about it it\u0027s more or less the same for all of these documents dreams today okay so Scott and I have produced other material which you know both these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "slides you\u0027re welcome to take a look at and that\u0027s it okay any other questions we have about three minutes for questions hi good question dues cannot see Apple um at the pretty early in the presentation you specified that the requirements for lurkers as in someone joining a mailing lists but not posting or someone sitting in the room but not say anything you said that there weren\u0027t any requirements right that\u0027s a question that has come up internally is that written down somewhere cuz I was browsing through the RFC I couldn\u0027t find it and I had some lawyers tell me oh it\u0027s unclear so you can\u0027t join this mailing list because we don\u0027t know if there might be some patents and if you were ready to be ridden down supply would help it is written down in in in the policy and I might even have the reference here but that was one of the problem it wasn\u0027t clear for a year for twenty years it wasn\u0027t clear that\u0027s why winning that\u0027s one of the reasons we updated this policy we\u0027re lurkers you know I don\u0027t know it I can if you give me I don\u0027t send you the section it\u0027s it\u0027s in RFC 81-79 so I\u0027ll double check it is now clear I hope it\u0027s clear okay thank you George okay absolutely excellent Michelle [Music] [Applause] [Music] people applauding IPR you\u0027re gonna miss us George okay my name is Michelle cotton and I work for PGI which is an affiliate of ICANN which performs the I Anna services but we all still just say I Anna because everybody\u0027s used to um and I just wanted it Karen actually asked me to give just a quick overview and what I wanted to look at is where you as working group chairs get involved with our communications and when we contact you just to make sure you know why we\u0027re emailing you or what we\u0027re asking for and just but before I get into the slides a quick show of hands how many of you are working group chairs that have only started say within the last year okay cool that helps me a little bit so this is gonna be a review for quite a few of you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:37",
    "text": "okay there we go so um I\u0027m going to do just a quick review of where you guys are involved and then let you know where you can go for more information so the first time you might get involved is if you need an early review of your internet draft in your working group or even you personally um we offer at any time that you can email us to say hey take a look at our internet draft it\u0027s got some registry creations in there anything Ayana related that you\u0027re asking us to do something we are happy to take a look at those drafts really early on make sure everything is clear in there which minimizes questions later on in the process so that early we can clarify things the last time we have to spend and you have to spend dealing with it later on early allocation of code points I\u0027m not sure if all of you are aware but there\u0027s RFC 7120 that allows you to get code points in certain registries early on before you actually publish an RFC sometimes those code points are needed for testing and so in RC 7120 in section two the conditions for how to get those early allocations are listed and you as where can group chairs have roles in actually making that happen so the authors of the document will actually request from you that they need early allocations you will get approval from the Area Director and then ultimately you\u0027ll send a request to us and we make the registrations and there\u0027s a expiration dates on those registrations as we get close to the expiration date we will tell you hey it\u0027s going to expire where is your draft what\u0027s happening there is a possibility to extend those early allocation periods we can extend it one extra year if your document is just not moving along as it should anything after a one-year extension the isg actually has to approve we\u0027ve done it and everything with early allocations has actually been working quite well so the first time we officially start copying you working group chairs on messages is during IETF last call we get a notice for that last call that we actually go in we officially review the document we look for any iron actions we then send a message saying this is what we understand we need to do and if we have any questions we\u0027ll will definitely put those in there and you guys are copied "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "on those messages and where that\u0027s important is if we have said we understand this is what we need to do and you or the authors say no no no that\u0027s not what you\u0027re gonna do that\u0027s the time to speak up and update the document so it reflects really what we need to do because we have an understanding so you guys are copied on this message messages really it\u0027s the author\u0027s job to come back and actually work that through but of course depending on your involvement in the document you\u0027re welcome to jump in any time if we get to the isg evaluation which is the next point in time when we officially review the document and as you know the isg ballots they actually stayed a yes or a No Objection position on your document we do not however if there\u0027s something in the document that is not clear we actually ask isg members to hold it for us until that gets clarified if we\u0027re not hearing from the authors of the document you would be the next person we go to to say hey you know we\u0027re not hearing back from the authors can you help us resolve these issues so the document can move forward and there are states in the data tracker to show what the result of our reviews are you could see Ayane okay actions required I am a not okay you know there\u0027s clarification needed or if there\u0027s nothing for us to do it\u0027ll say no actions and then the next time you get copied is during actual implementation of the requests in the document for IEM actions again there\u0027s nothing that you really need to do you\u0027re seeing the document progress and registries being created or registrations being made in existing registries however sometimes questions do creep up during that stage and if the authors are not being responsive we again rely on you to help us out not often but sometimes during off 48 hours changes creep button in the document that actually affect the registries and at that time we may need the working group chairs in the area director to actually approve what we\u0027re doing since it\u0027s not going back in time to last call or the isg approval state so that is somewhere where we we might ask you to get involved and then outside the the document process other times where we may contact you is if we\u0027re looking at a registry maybe in the old "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:38",
    "text": "registry and there needs to be some reorganization maybe there\u0027s some questions about where it should be in our listing of registries maybe it should be nested among other registries does it still need to be open maybe there\u0027s a registry that you know it\u0027s 20 years old and no further registrations are needed in that registry those are the types of questions that we may come to you as the working group chairs to help us gather information and make decisions and you know that is in conjunction with the area director and then registries that require designated experts often the area directors would come to you to help find experts and that\u0027s for new registries and then old registries that have experts that say I don\u0027t want to do this anymore finding replacements is another area we we would rely on you\u0027d help so where to go for help recently published 8126 that was the replacement 250 to 26 and with the help of Barry we improved that document quite a bit and there\u0027s so much information in there of how to properly write an eye on a consideration section if you notice that and in a document you\u0027re looking at for your working group it\u0027s just not not working it\u0027s a mess point your authors 281 26 and it should help clarify and explain things at any time again you can email us we\u0027re happy to look at documents way early on in the process at every IETF meeting we have a desk there and as opposed to 10 or 15 years ago when people would come up and say what\u0027s going on with this request it\u0027s actually changed quite a bit to hey we\u0027re thinking about putting this in a document what\u0027s the best way to do it so it\u0027s become very much a proactive trying to figure out how to put the right things in the document early on which saves everybody confusion along the way and if there\u0027s something in your working group if there\u0027s a document that\u0027s talking about creating registries you\u0027re not sure what to do if you want us to come and listen and and give our two cents of what experiences we\u0027ve had maybe pointing out other registries that do something similar we are more than happy to come and say hello just listen or provide feedback so that\u0027s it does anybody have any questions Wow hi this is Barry one thing that I have noticed that I think will help Ayane a lot is we often don\u0027t specify the ranges the valid ranges of things in our registries be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:38",
    "text": "sure you do that and so in particular clearly if something is a certain number of bits you need to tell them how many bits they have to assign if it\u0027s a number give them the range of the number and in particular tell them whether zero is a valid value because often we don\u0027t want to assign zero but we don\u0027t tell anybody not to so if it\u0027s if the number is from zero to thirty two thousand or one to fifteen thousand or whatever you need to tell them and third if it\u0027s a string most of our strings are gonna be ASCII and if you don\u0027t say anything they\u0027re going to assume it\u0027s an ASCII string you ought to tell them whether if it\u0027s ASCII whether it\u0027s case sensitive or not and whether they need to preserve the case it\u0027s useful to tell them if they\u0027re gonna sort the registry on that field that they should sort the registry on that field and if your string if you want your string to be a utf-8 string don\u0027t just say that come to the art area art at IETF gorg and tell us that you want to do that and get advice from us because that makes it a lot more difficult and probably you don\u0027t want protocol parameters to be in utf-8 but if you do we need to work with you on how to do it right and I just add what Barry said we\u0027ve gotten a lot better through the years about asking those questions up front if you don\u0027t actually say it in the ionic consideration section we\u0027ll ask you you know what\u0027s the max value here there is an infant infinite if you don\u0027t state the registration procedures of course we\u0027re going to ask that as well but all those little details will end up asking because we really try not to put things in the registries right now unless like everything is clear because we don\u0027t want to end up asking questions a couple of years down the line benkei doc so just sort of a logistical question if I want the allocation is there a special entry point for that I just send email to I an ad I am well look at 7120 you actually send an email to your working group chair and they said the request to us what I am the working group chip well Oh where\u0027s the coffee you if you\u0027ve already received approval from the area director you send the email to I Anna Diana org it creates a ticket we track it we make sure that everything has followed the procedures and 7120 and usually um or I should say often working group chairs will include the message from the area director this is yeah this looks good so then that\u0027s one less question we have to ask cool thanks you\u0027re welcome my name is Louie Anderson I have a question on the earlier locations do you actually know how many earlier locations that actually I stayed left more than a year and actually has to really be renewed off "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:40",
    "text": "the top of my head we\u0027ve we\u0027ve probably done at least a dozen renewals okay do you have a percentage um no but I can get that to you and I can send it to their working list I looked at mine it\u0027s probably like 10 15 over the last three or four years and there to stay longer than a year so I start thinking about is that figure a year before renewal is that actually matched to what you\u0027re doing the process or should we actually extend it a bit from the beginning not in the BA not to need to do the process within renewal because that\u0027s it\u0027s not not a big problem but it\u0027s it takes some time let me go back and look at the numbers from when we started collecting them if there\u0027s only 10 percent of your renews it stays longer than it\u0027s not easy but it is 90 then we probably should it\u0027s done yeah no I I\u0027ll go back and look at the numbers and see and the is she gets a monthly report from us as to which ones are coming up for expiration and we work closely with them if they they know this documents it\u0027s gonna get published soon there have been some cases where it\u0027s only been had it\u0027s only been extended for like a month or two and then it\u0027s published so that\u0027s probably a good conversation to have also with the isg to see what they think but let me check the numbers first and we\u0027ll go from there sounds nice one thing a question wasn\u0027t clear to me is what is actually required to create my ANA registry it doesn\u0027t actually say that in the document I don\u0027t think and clearly a standards action IETF RFC is sufficient but is that necessary or can other things also create I got registries now an independent submissions can create Ayana registries RTF documents can create I in the registries an informational breath could mm-hmm and like a third-party SDO could it come to you or is that at your discretion or what we\u0027re talking about that that\u0027s a discussion we had when I was on the ia SG and we didn\u0027t resolve it yet so that\u0027s an open question but the one thing that we did come up with that I\u0027ve talked with Neville about is the only restriction we\u0027ve come up with on registry creation from other streams is independent submission stream well out streams other than the ietf stream if they use expert review that commits the iesg to managing a designated expert for that and you\u0027re doing that outside the ietf stream we decided that that\u0027s not appropriate and if we need to do that we need to figure out the right way to do it which probably means that the other streams need to define their own expert review process that\u0027s so timely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:41",
    "text": "cuz Neville and I were just talking about a document that actually describes the process for designating experts for non IDF stream documents yeah david black since i\u0027m making this request i think i\u0027ve always telling myself up to help with it but i find myself in the middle of a little bit of confusion around registration around registration policy for new registries and most people don\u0027t have the patience to read 8126 in full detail beyond which I\u0027m now discovering that in some case you want a combination a matrix of if you do this you get this would be incredibly useful David see that you see the link right there to help slash protocol registration I I looked there I didn\u0027t see a matrix there did I missing know what would be helpful is if you took well actually we\u0027re about to revise that don\u0027t look at it yet I\u0027ll send you don\u0027t look at it okay that that would be great says right right now I just I\u0027m highly motivated I happened to be in the middle of a of trying to invent a site with the quick registration policy for a new registry and it\u0027s gotten off into the weeds and a matrix would help help probably would have would have made this go a lot faster okay very I\u0027ll commit to working with Michelle on that and we might get you in the loop David to make sure to review it and make sure we got it right you know another point I wanted to make on the question about other STS and other streams creating registries that we have to maintain one thing that we\u0027re also looking at when those registries get created is how is it going to impact our workload so if an i RTF document creates a registry that\u0027s going to be getting a thousand requests every day first yeah that\u0027s going to impact our workload significantly and so that\u0027s a question that we have to ask in working with the ITF and how it\u0027s going to affect our goal times for getting requests done so that\u0027s just something to consider Donnelly\u0027s like with huawei just a blue louis or one the previous point i just wanted to mention that guidance for experts in documents varies very widely and sometimes it says very little and it\u0027s pretty complicated and intricate and especially if it\u0027s a finite registry where the amount of remaining space will necessarily decrease as more things are allocated it\u0027s hard to tell to say exactly how to take that into account and so forth and my personal opinion is that it\u0027s really better to leave more to the discretion of the experts that\u0027s what they\u0027re why they\u0027re experts you know there was a time when there was one expert and they had essentially complete "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:42",
    "text": "discretion over all registries and it worked pretty well now literally that was a very good expert we had that but but you know so yeah and times change and if the instructions are not too specific in a document as as things change they can modify the way they review requests if it\u0027s not in stone in the RFC benoît hi I\u0027m Ben Warren so uh two pieces of feedback the first wanted to discuss the two of us together this morning is that maybe I mean for me it would be pretty useful to have next registry a click button or something that will guide me on how I could get this automatically to our sink and at the past who to get directly the registry content automatically that\u0027s the first thing the second thing is wanted to come back in the one year for early reviews I think it\u0027s about right you have one year because if we make it too simple for people you know three years then we can have so many requests you need to derail the process I\u0027m thinking that you know if your specification is not about to be published in a year then maybe it\u0027s not stable enough already I just wanted to give some feedback as somebody who\u0027s been using some of these registries from broadband form I\u0027ve made a number of requests to some of the various registries and some have been much more frustrating than others figuring out just how to get a namespace registered was actually really hard because the processes were not clearly defined but I can say that once we got the names was such a great thing because now we have complete freedom to manage our own registries and so I would actually recommend that for any organization that once its own registries is just get your own namespace and then you really have great control um but the procedures vary so widely from registry to registry and it\u0027s sometimes embedded so deeply within the document Union you have to go down five pages to the I Ana considerations which done you know references this other section which then references this other section and just trying to figure out the format and then it you know maybe promises a couple of weeks of expert review except it actually takes you know nobody ever responds because it\u0027s been a couple of years since the registry was published and the people maybe lost interest anyway it\u0027s been kind of frustrating going through some of the registries just some feedback so I\u0027d love you to stop by the deaths so I can collect more details as far as where to find information every single registry on the listing has the registration procedures they\u0027re like at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:44",
    "text": "the top of the page of the registry unless they were never defined in which case the registries probably not accepting new registrations anyway so we encourage authors to not do that whole thing where they\u0027re pointing to a section up here and a section down there we we want to know for our benefit everything that we need to know initial values and registry registration procedures any anything related the registry that we need to know about we like to have an ionic consideration section but ultimately the more complicated the authors make it we push back a little bit but sometimes there\u0027s reasons to why they are complicating things we are working on a registry workflow project where in the initial stages we\u0027re putting all of the registry information into a database we\u0027re looking at if you go to the Registry\u0027s right now there\u0027s no place to actually see okay here\u0027s the registry and very close to it click we want to register one of those and we\u0027re we\u0027re in the process of putting that system together again very early stages we had some focus groups at the last ITF with some experts and document authors working group chairs and got lots of feedback so we\u0027re expecting some improvements in the next few years we just want to make sure we do it right and the next in the next maybe one or two or three IITs we might even have some beta website to look at and for people to play with so look out for that as well concrete suggestions for the work flow project I think a lot of previous speakers frustrations some some situations where the authors did not just pick a keyword out of 8126 but said no no you\u0027ve got to go to all this and it might just be that if you put next to the registry a link even to a text form that says you want registration here fill this one out and send it to us and that\u0027s even though the text form is sometimes extractable from the RFC sometimes it\u0027s not and just just just putting that form there might might might might help next people who bump into this one all right I think with that we\u0027re gonna have to wrap really quickly Sabrina tanum all\u0027s right in the front here she\u0027s the one who answers a lot of the email so just to put a name to the face Amanda they alternate between meetings Sabrina and you\u0027ve probably seen it Amanda\u0027s name as well so if you\u0027re by the desk stop by and say hello thank you very much Michelle that was very interesting all right so I think what we\u0027re gonna have to do is go yeah so with that we\u0027re at 121 so what we need to exit the room we\u0027ll take all the work the open mic questions you can send on the mailing list I would like to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:45",
    "text": "remind folks that we do have a working group chairs wiki that we accept suggestions on what would be good topics for this particular lunch thank you and please don\u0027t forget to take your garbage out of the room [Music] you "
  }
]