[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "so it\u0027s time welcome to their a music working group session yes yes 103 in Bangkok we have a note taker thank you to Krister and the jabber relay Jonathan I am beau Berman by the way and by my side is my co-chair Fleming here is the ITF note well although the design looks like the old one this is actually the new text if you haven\u0027t read it please do so we have that blue sheets outs we have a JavaScript and note taker all you are experienced ITF participants so you know the drills the regular document review requests and today\u0027s agenda we have a status update we have a proposal for a charter update for a music and we have one presentation by Ronnie about the DC si attribute registration that they were to see data channel attributes so for the working group status it\u0027s basically the same as it was the last time we have a whole lot of documents and it\u0027s long in the RFC editor queue the famous maybe even infamous cluster two three eight waiting for one another and we had a minor update of the bundle negotiation the time between this meeting and the last one updating a reference basically we have one document data channel as the P neg application requested and in AD follow-up it\u0027s also on the agenda today we have two documents waiting for right up there STP base and I sip STP that has some editorial comments we have two other drafts that are alive "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:17",
    "text": "in the working group we have the key share documents that need some rewrite based on review comments and we have the data channel MSRP draft that has died in the working group we decided not to pursue that one will soon expire and we didn\u0027t have any expert reviews since last meeting as for the summary of the RTC web dependencies that we presented previously also there is only one document that is not in the RFC editors queue and that\u0027s the ICF SDP and has some minor editorial update and write-up remaining Krista just a small comment I think we\u0027ve seen that this MUX attributes draft we\u0027ll need some updates based on comments on IC based EP a sorry based on the comments on VF CTV\u0027s because there are some attributes and the MUX category for those are defined as TBD but in this draft they have another value so I think that\u0027s gonna okay I assume that has to be done in the working group I\u0027m not saying we need to take the draft back but I guess maybe then can talk about the procedures but but it will need an update thank you I think we just need to make sure that the working group is aware and I don\u0027t think we need to pull it back unless you unless you think we\u0027re talking about material changes here which I don\u0027t think we are so going further to the next agenda points we have a proposal on a charter update for a music triggered by the fact that ice working group with the ice one of the ice chairs in the room maybe you would like to say something but basically they did conclude on all their milestones under get on an ice co-chair so yes we have pretty much done with all our documents they are there\u0027s no new documents that are being up and coming we\u0027ve been waiting for the infamous cluster to finalize and make make sure there\u0027s no new things that need to be very nice but at least at the moment it seems that we are ready and we could be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:18",
    "text": "declaring success okay so the proposal so far has been that since yeah you go first since the ice documents were actually mediated in a music and further developed in the ice working group for proposal is that a music should continue to maintain the hospitai specifications and thus the music charger would need an update in that case this is Ben Campbell I\u0027m actually relaying relaying a comment that ekor made to me and in one of the earlier meetings earlier in the week which was to ask if we really need to add that to the Charter vs. handling new maintenance and extensions as we would handle any new work he asked the question one question he asked and and I think know the answer to that would be depending on what part of ice we\u0027re doing maintenance on you know if we\u0027re talking about core timing thing that sort of thing if in music is the place with the right expertise for that I think that my reaction to that is well it\u0027s the same people wherever we do it so I have strong feelings I just wanted to relay that\u0027s that was a comment that was made he can\u0027t be here to make the comment for himself there was something to think about Iker Muniain the question about it so what does it mean it means that it will go to dispatch if there are any changes in eyes if it\u0027s not on the Charter for any music so can go first to dispatch suicune I guess one thing it comes down to here is how much is the three expecting con truly judged on that any comment from ice as individual I mean I think a few years ago there people had a number of ideas of things to extend ice with which they didn\u0027t get you know eventually they lost energy and doing them I\u0027m not sure how much of that was because they were just you know all the interview went to just getting reberty\u0027s he finished instead and that might come back when people think that\u0027s all good and stable or maybe they just still decide okay the ice we have is good enough and it\u0027s really kind of hard to say or maybe they\u0027ll say we want to do everything over quick and yeah I think the situation is a little bit worse than that Jonathan there have been proprietary extensions to ice that have actually shipped and in fairly large deployments so it\u0027s they did tire or the ITF but they just went and shipped it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:18",
    "text": "and that\u0027s a reality Bernard do you think they\u0027re likely to ever bring that back to the IDF it\u0027s some of its expressed in drafts and I think if I my concern is that it\u0027s not at all clear how it how it works in all of the corner cases so I think if there were to be some charter work on it it might help at least to elucidate what how things are supposed to work right now you know obviously the drafts we published are good enough to interoperate with but interoperating with what\u0027s out in the field is actually pretty difficult you have to do a lot of reverse-engineer okay so it seemed from from the chance point of view I think we\u0027re good either way and we\u0027re also open to that anything can can happen and depending on the nature of the change it should probably anyway go via dispatch might necessarily end up in in a music for that this is been I have another question for Bernard if we were to take that work back up did the kind of thing like your maintenance there is the kind of thing you would consider significant rework I would not consider it maintenance because some of the I I\u0027m thinking of things like re nomination there are things that are I think I could would consider to be fairly core to ice itself and the way it operates and it would be the kind of thing that would need significant analysis I would think if I don\u0027t consider it just a maintenance some of these things are I mean you might consider an extension but it\u0027s it\u0027s not a minor thing necessarily so this could almost be a visible sort of thing if it were to happen I you know it depends how far you want to go I think I think the energy for a complete rewrite is very is relatively low but if they were targeted things that could demonstrate significant performance enhancements that would be a little bit different or you know alternatively if you win through some of these things and were able to prove that they didn\u0027t provide performance enhancement that would also be useful but people seem to believe they do it\u0027s just there a number of things that have been extension that have been made for people claim performance enhancement and you know that maybe the data is there maybe it isn\u0027t but this is Chris yeah I read a few of those drafts and they\u0027re definitely not maintenance I mean I don\u0027t remember by heart all of them but we had continuous nomination we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "those kind of things which is really neat new functionality yeah I have also thought with the author but I guess he should speak for himself whatever he plans to bring them here or not but last time I talked with him there were no plans continuous domination is another example of something that shipping so are those drafts targeting the ice working group or I\u0027m just wondering if it would make sense to not close down eyes if there are such work for seen to have ice dormant until that type of drafts come up so yeah of course that is a one option but I\u0027m I\u0027m thinking more kind of how do you get the work done point of view we are a lot of a small group when when ice work was originally in EMU\u0027s it Emily a lot of people a lot of fast but activity and it made a lot of sense to split the ice away now we are much more group much smaller amount of documents and it\u0027s same people and music ice they\u0027re fighting even given that doing it music actually would make sense maybe we need to tweak the Charter a bit in order to process and extensions to it has needed so if that that work can be considered as extension personally I think would make sense than with the music yeah Jonathan the next month the nation will be to say do it through a music unless something comes up where it looks like it\u0027s big enough that it\u0027s worth that it would need its own working rope in which case spin up a new mini working group or resurrect ice six and one exactly yes that\u0027s exactly so this language would match that my idea so so this has been again and and I\u0027m will leave you know consensus choices to the chairs but what I\u0027m hearing is that people think this it\u0027s reasonable to but something scoped like this which would be small work and a music and that in music is the right place to do that sort of thing but then we don\u0027t want a music to take on a fundamental rewrite or ice this sort of thing without without a recharter right well the process of new work has a lot of ways you can come in it could be dispatcher or just what dispatch does is a recommendation there\u0027s a number of ways we can do those but in any case I don\u0027t think we\u0027re taking on something like Isis biz without recharging wherever it goes Turk Brennan all right did you have another comment well just that I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "there\u0027s a part part of this would be there would be an empirical aspect where you know because I think a lot of it is about performance optimization and I don\u0027t know that that\u0027s necessarily a musics forte but I think you basically have to prove out some way of proving that these things make sense if they\u0027re all about performance you know and they\u0027re all about optimization you kind of have to show that in fact you do optimize so that\u0027s just I think you have to be a little bit systematic about some of these kind of things and I don\u0027t know whether in music has got the stomach for you know talking about milliseconds saved or data you know experiments and things like that this is Bennigan\u0027s question to all of the chairs in the room I sent and their music chairs how many people are active in I don\u0027t come in how many people are active were active and ice that don\u0027t also participate in a music and I don\u0027t know the answer and this is not this is not a rhetorical question are together and I haven\u0027t had a chance to follow a music that posted recently but I would assume that\u0027s a very that\u0027s like beyond myself it\u0027s a kind of small set of people there\u0027s a set of people who if the IETF is doing work they\u0027re interested in although wherever it is and if they\u0027re not will not show up in any group so and and also on the topic of like getting the right people who have the stomach to talk about these things I mean we can pull people from different communities when that\u0027s what it takes I mean I think help upper 80s and others like we do that for example in high school community transport expertise we got a bunch of transfer people there and I did the discussants a nice group I\u0027m sure we can do something similar in music and that\u0027s a big problem but of course but I do I agree it Bernard we do need to right people to understand that maybe that\u0027s not that natural placing a music but I think we can work it I expect that we to some extent can can make that happen actually as as as chairs to encourage people to participating in the degree that would be needed okay this has been again then I will ask the chairs if they are if this is what they agree that they want to do to send me text of an updated Charter with this or however you want it to read and they\u0027ll process like an example of something you would do if you really wanted to get activity would be to have a hackathon you know have several of these extensions implement it do tests you know whether they perform if you know provide any optimization it\u0027s it would be a fairly focused and intense activity I\u0027m not saying that people a missus I don\u0027t know that people would "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:22",
    "text": "sign up to do it but that would be the kind of thing I think you\u0027d have to organize if you if you wanted to make progress on it but nor do you think there needs to be some charter texts that says you need to do that sort of thing well I think there needs to be let me put it this way I think there needs to be if this I\u0027m not going to say that there\u0027s enough interest to make this happen but if the if the desire is there to make it happen I think you have to have some framework put in place for it like I said it\u0027s optimization so if you can\u0027t prove that it actually optimizes anything it\u0027s somewhat pointless so you\u0027d have to have an emphasis on you know hackathons or empirical beta provided or or something that provides a basis for discussion and that seems like it would need to be in the Charter let\u0027s so let\u0027s consider talked about with the Charter maybe adding another sentence that just points out that whatever change any kind of new ice extensions we do we\u0027ll need demonstrated interests from the gay interest and value well sometimes we have to have the interest first to find out about the value exactly that\u0027s the problem the interest first and then but if if that makes sense to including the Charter I think yes we do that okay so I only have one more slide and that would be the entire text to the proposed charter with the change that was expressed on the previous slide not taking into account the most recent discussion of course been on once you go to the line again or bernardi\u0027s enter the queue again a few I wanted to say something and in any case it\u0027s a pretty small change basically added the sentence as before I\u0027m not sure the Charter needs to contain the history lesson of where the ice was defined we should say the second sentence of the bullet point nope and that was it for the chairs Ronny welcome to the floor unless we have more comments the pink I\u0027m Ronnie event so I\u0027m trying to finish the data Channel "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "SDP negotiation version 21 which I submitted Lai recently did some address some of the comment made and I think most of the comment made by Ben as the in the area director review so we need to look but there was an open go to next slide but there was a the data channel setup can be done using either the invent beta channel establishment protocol this app or using out-of-band known this a protocol this document specifies this just to recap how the SDP her answer exchange can be used to achieve an out-of-band non VSAT negotiation normative reference by clue data channel documented clue signaling to this document and that\u0027s why I would like to finish this document to feel to finish also clue next slide so the the open issue that I had from the review which it\u0027s good that it was reviewed because I missed it when I was doing the document does the SDP TCS a attribute allows the negotiation of a data general SAP protocol attribute I give you the DCC attribute our SDP attributes that are specified to be used under this dcs a level that is similar to the SSRC attribute RFC 55 76 the transit on registry so this is the SDP definition the the name is DCS a value and what\u0027s there is that the syntax is stream ID and then attribute test attribute which is from RFC 4566 which means can be any attribute from RFC but the text says I mean not a reference everything is viable for not everything can be really used as in the TCS a level but most of them can be used and as an example it helps you know that the a the last line I equal DC say to accept type protects slash plane for example so this is so the last part is an SDP attribute so and the current ionic consideration in section 9 country of the document it produces a new disease a usage level of the SDP module description today Anna SDP attribute field registry the the problem is that there is no such a way to describe it because there are no registry doesn\u0027t have this level B and that will go to the next line so for to address this just just the land of the last bullet so the proposal is to define a new registry attribute field B si si "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:26",
    "text": "si si level since there is no option to add a usage level to the current a 80 attribute field registry now when when I put this dis on the list this question there was a comment from Paul kovitch which is the next slide and he said that there was a discussion in the past to reorganize the attribute filler registry currently we have the following attribute fields we have attribute field session level attribute field boss session and media level media level only source level and unknown level we have all these registries and each attribute an attribute can be registered in more than one of them so the proposal was to merge them into one registry and have the usage level as a column inside this the the registry itself now this is not I mean and that\u0027s what our area director said I mean this is nothing I mean this should not be done by the document that I\u0027m editing if we want to do it then it needs to be done it\u0027s I think it\u0027s I don\u0027t know if it requires any document or just require some work to prepare the to Diana how to merge them into one registry I don\u0027t know how to do this the question whether we should do this and if we do that then the other question would be should I wait for that with my document or should I do especially specific at registry and that will be merged later I don\u0027t have that\u0027s why I\u0027m trying it as an open issue I don\u0027t know how to do to go is it I\u0027m looking for advice this is Ben I\u0027m not going to give you advice in that second part of the question I will comment on the first part of what she said which was what does it take to do this kind of reorganization and I think that ini would probably like to see a draft that might be nothing but I ana considerations that probably updates the RFC\u0027s for these things that that but they created this stuff it just to tell them what to do it could be really short and defined probably due to the change and everything I understand because it\u0027s a new registry Fleming just is individual I mean we actually already had that in the 4566 bits draft that reorganization has been put in there so we just haven\u0027t gotten through with the publication request the document is ready 4566 tears yeah so but I mean it\u0027s you know it\u0027s coming right within the next couple of weeks okay I didn\u0027t see the poops so you said in 1545 six is just one registry yes I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "wasn\u0027t aware I mean look at 4566 piece and and Paul didn\u0027t point to that so I was he said just because I mean he was following 4566 be so surprised it didn\u0027t say anything okay yeah I mean we double check on that to make sure that I\u0027m not getting something mixed up but it\u0027s in there I mean I\u0027m pretty sure it\u0027s all about the same thing here so we don\u0027t have a problem with four of these six best seems certainly when it puts for this is it\u0027s piss in the flue dependency chain but it\u0027s not the end of the world okay I if I think about these I know the answer to that thing but I\u0027m just going to ask this is a cluster 238 dependency right no I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know it\u0027s not it\u0027s a it used to but it\u0027s not anymore just one for the clue there\u0027s a dependency okay nevermind it\u0027s not a problem okay so okay so if we assume okay so so what I\u0027ll just go according to 4566 base then and update and we wait we wait for for a tooth to tooth to de Triana for that I believe so yeah okay so it looks like 4566 beasts may already those registries so and so at least for the the document the time editing that\u0027s no problem I\u0027ll just update it just ate right what is the level there but I think and that\u0027s for Jonathan maybe because that the traffic city already has DC si in it so I think maybe no but it\u0027s at the DC si it\u0027s the the use it but what can be used by the CSI level not the DC say in the forensic space okay so I think 486 BS depends might depend on this okay but I think it\u0027s already done so okay and so I have a question here if we\u0027re looking at it so it I mean in the past there was this on the source level there were some other attributes that we didn\u0027t include that are not included in is it also going to be is the the new registry just reflect what\u0027s the current registry or or is it an also an opportunity for us to update the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "registry with the usage level for more attributes from the for example for source level I think is that the new document doesn\u0027t define doesn\u0027t add any levels to existing attribute so I think that there are a few documents that did that because the problem is you can\u0027t just do it mechanically you have to specify what it means yeah in all cases so you catch it so okay there actually something that defines that but yeah I think maybe the assumption had been that this document would beat 4566 best to completion so this was the patristic says this would update this but it didn\u0027t so or maybe it\u0027s not maybe it\u0027s so good and when you publish it like this and then varieties if this would update this but I don\u0027t see thank you for updating because I was in the where of that so this has been just to make sure I understand then the fix for this is just to rationalize this 245 66 bits right that\u0027s correct and we wouldn\u0027t need to put the dependency in my document to 4566 base because the register cannot register I cannot do the registry around its both side because I can I don\u0027t I cannot do that dianna registry without having the registry ready after shock be careful with clusters okay and with that we have no further issues unless we have more comments on this topic so in that case we can close the session for today thank you for participate I\u0027m not certain about this yet I\u0027m trying to hold three conversations and try to work this out so I\u0027m operating at reduced capacity but Matt Olson isn\u0027t this how we signal priority when it comes to the web RTC usage of this no no okay because it\u0027s got a priority field there that corresponds to the ones there is Jonathan there\u0027s a bunch of stuff in WebRTC that was Remini mukhda literally made the decision this is not going to be an SDP it\u0027s only going to be in the JavaScript API and and that was lens and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:28",
    "text": "they said this is the document that says if you\u0027re not using WebRTC you\u0027re just using SDP offer answer this is how you do the equivalent things okay any other comments all right we\u0027re good thank you [Music] workers camp doesn\u0027t matter where we say "
  }
]