[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:14",
    "text": "[Music] welcome back to our second session on debt net we are our first speaker up just walked in the room so it\u0027s perfect timing I\u0027m Lou burger this is young far coughs my co-chair we have Ethan Grossman still remote for the as is the case for all IETF sessions our work here is covered by our contribution guidelines that is summarized in the note well if you\u0027re unfamiliar with it please visit the URL on the bottom of the page basically everything you say here becomes part of our permanent record and in fact we are recording with video as well as transmitting we and we have collaborative note-taking taking place on etherpad please feel free to join in make sure your comments your name is appropriately captured and I\u0027ll do my best to relay comments made by Jabbar with that we\u0027re gonna jump into the agenda first up is Greg mirskiy we have a separate news we have a new blue sheets for their second session so please sign oh thank you first okay you wanna yeah here\u0027s some substance historically its first thank you okay um we were presenting and discussing document and then based on how work on detling data plane is ongoing I was suggested to split this document and specifically for the there was data plane case and for the IEP so this is presentation on MPLS they deplane deterministic networks did with plane and am so we had comments from Pascal we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "addressed them and discussed and we took their death net or a.m. document was splitted in two and because of changes in or how the impellers data p.m. document progresses we removed the optional years of Gail gash so it uses only to the Royal VC C D so the D control mode the sequence number and it ensures that packet replication duplicate elimination and all the preservation functions work what we are this document is to take control word ACH from to the wire and use the reserved field for the sequence number so we\u0027re defining that associated channel header which the first label is one then the version the current version is zero the sequence number is a food that would be monotonically increment it and the channel type the channel that we use from Ayana to the wire associated channel called points the sequence number is needed so that death net or a.m. can experience the same treatment by packet or application elimination and or the preservation function and you can see that basically with this sequence number if we have taken to replication in n1 + r4 then the packet that has the prime science so then they could go and elimination in r2 will choose for example the original packet and all prime will be dropped and when the packet elimination function in n2 will probably choose copy\u0027 armed with two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:17",
    "text": "primes that\u0027s because that net om will have a sequence number so this packets can be compared and acted functions will work on them as they work on adjust net net flow so what\u0027s the next step because there are documents that consider of how MPLS works over all with IP UDP tunnel and where the TSN domain will continue this work to address specific what what specifics can be for this scenarios we welcome your comments suggestions and questions always and very grateful for them and we would like to ask for consideration to consider of working reproduction of this document comments I\u0027m oh that\u0027s really funny I was looking to Stuart and then looking for Andy in the room of course and he\u0027s not in the room and I looked down and yes he\u0027s at the my queue so I will read his question question for Greg this is from anomalous the graph needs to specify if the sequence number goes through zero or not for example 255 0 1 255 1 this is currently not specified so a technical comment right yes the sickness number may read but my understanding is that for packet replication and in the nation functions that is not critical because my stop-in document is very specific on what happens and perhaps tellurium should follow okay then then I will need to read because I missed that part okay great thank you comments any other comments from the floor do people think this document is headed in the right direction not getting a lot of responses how many people have read this document it\u0027s a pretty small number I was assuming the answer to the next question which I usually asked so maybe I should have started there how many think we should be working on Oh a.m. for NPR mpls debt net data play that\u0027s it\u0027s not a huge number but it\u0027s a reasonable number that was I actually had made the assumption that this was something that the working group would want to work on but I should have asked my apologies so the next question was how many read we already saw that there\u0027s very few III don\u0027t think we can do much right now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "with the amount of people that we\u0027ve had read the document so really like to ask people to to read the document comment on the list think of it talk about whether you think it\u0027s an headed in the right direction or the wrong direction that\u0027d be really useful just do it to make progress before the next meeting maybe we should schedule it for a sort of a an interim of some sort just to do a proper review yeah one of the that that\u0027s an interesting idea the other thing and I haven\u0027t talked to Janos about it so we got a synchronize on this point you know one of the things I\u0027m I was thinking is is we could do an adoption poll with an understanding that if it fails it\u0027s not that it\u0027s dead so normally when we do an adoption poll if it\u0027s rejected that topic is closed and we don\u0027t revisit it we could do an adoption poll which is has with an understanding that it\u0027s it\u0027s really about is this headed in the right direction and then we can come back and do it again we can do both of those yeah so we\u0027ll talk offline you know I think I think there is general agreement that this is something that working group wants to work on it\u0027s just it\u0027s just this is whether or not there\u0027s any support for your specific solution and again from the jabber Andy has both read the document and think we should be working on it there\u0027s a nice thick that means the topic thank you okay I\u0027ll can you switch to from P so now we\u0027re moving on to IP okay so this is a proportion and after reading some drafts that discuss that net over IP and relationship of IP UDP with the MPLS and TSM so we decided that for now it\u0027s an informational document because since packet replication and elimination functions are not envisioned in IP in that net over IP then we believe that all known IP OEM should work and that\u0027s probably period so for now we are moving as informational document the concern or the question that we would like the working group to discuss and we will need to reflect that here is that the definition of death net flow in IP identified by six double IP or en protocols use our different well-known destination ports associating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:19",
    "text": "IP OEM with a particular death net flow and ensuring that they are corroded so traverse the same nodes and links in IP network not in a channels in IP networks maple a problem so we might need to have some warning might be in this document or in the data plane document actually if we make it in the data claim document this document might be not needed but we will need to really explain how that can work so that I am is faith sharing with it flow it monitors I\u0027m holding the dramatic purpose because I see David that sounds like an accurate problem description um David David you have another slide talking about solutions well that\u0027s what they have basically we can only say that IPO M has to be mapped with a dead net flow it might be just some management tools that you have to say that this flow and this flow will have to go on this route frankly if there is not much if there is a ECM pian I P network and if that net allows to be work or may work in a CMP environment in IP network then it might become a more problem so the table black David image reaction was out great is completely correct so so only the current about congruent routing stuff we had we had in the flow information whether we come so far to the two directions to becoming congruent but and and introducing parameters for that like flow ID management parameters like floor ID and so on we may consider extending it to the VIP and maybe give a different name or something to make it sure or use those that the OEM flow goes along the same way as it\u0027s more than just the same wake a David thereby can concrete example suppose that the debt net 40 plane is fouled up at a node but the IP forwarding plane is not the OEM traffic BFD cannot be betrayed traceroute in particular has got to go through the detonate forwarding plane to tell you where the broken node is because you send it through the IP forwarding plane will incorrectly tell you everything\u0027s okay I David I thought "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "you were also going to make the point that you you also have to get into the right queues because there\u0027s a whole queueing behavior property and part of forwarding plane yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s that that\u0027s absolute foreign plane so in queue speak if the debt net queue is broken in a node and the corresponding queue for that pair of IP addresses is functioning and you send traceroute in a fashion that doesn\u0027t get into the decnet queue traceroute will fail to fight will fail to find the problem I think those this is norm Finn it\u0027s it\u0027s not it\u0027s not trivial to to get the OEM to follow the IP I know then I agree and it\u0027s not trivial to get it treated with the same QoS make sure it goes in the same queues and so on well actually that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s again if if the flow is identified by six topple and that controls to which you it goes sure yes I understand but that is otherwise well you can if we cannot make it happen then Oh am doesn\u0027t serve its purpose right of course so in an in theory you we should be able to say this OEM this this we have to be able to look at the OEM and tell which flow the OEM is for okay that it\u0027s so there\u0027s there\u0027s there\u0027s an oem flow per vetnet flow right at some point yes it can be the case right so there\u0027s an oem flow for debt net flow so we have to be able to look at the OEM packet and say ah that goes with this debt net flow and this back and so it gets this debt net flow service and and so on and the other part of that is that we have to allow for the bandwidth of the OEM in the reservation for the flow which means we have to be very very sure that the OEM is limited in bandwidth and you know conforms to whatever rules we have for for the flow itself Oh something to think about is that with the packet replication for example you can argue that the sequence number allows the data flow itself to be the OEM now you don\u0027t get all the functions okay but you certainly get connectivity and if you have two paths and I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:21",
    "text": "receiving it on one path and I\u0027m not receiving it on the other path I know something\u0027s wrong and it\u0027s not just that the source stopped so just know I understand this is just IP sorry sorry that\u0027s only if you can that\u0027s only if you have the two paths yeah thank you right again I I think it\u0027s a very good suggestion to use what\u0027s called hybrid or air methods so using the wire traffic they\u0027re some advantages but in my experience it\u0027s a good complementary to it does not substitute for active for am where the packets are specially specifically constructed for the test purposes and there are many cases for now IP does or at least appears to have some issues that we need to discuss and define and faith sharing is reported so also because there are some the number of documents that explain how that let IP works over MPLS and/or with TCM so what we point out is that there are two scenarios to work in regard to our OEM so first its if it\u0027s a tunneling and second one it\u0027s it\u0027s appearing you can see inter working so we might have just look at TSM or MPLS that let and know as the means as one hop or we might need to inter work to provide end-to-end OAM but that bit so there is another technology I mean I don\u0027t really see how we solve it in classical IP without some help somewhere or other because we\u0027ve never been able to solve the problem of making the paths congruent with with IP but what we could do and what we probably need to do anyway is to introduce an explicit routing technology of which there are several candidates on the one hand this SL on the other hand there\u0027s something like PPR or there is that\u0027s rsvp-te which was discussed RSVP and they\u0027d a working group actually so there\u0027s actually there\u0027s act was actually about four or five solutions for explicit path and with others there\u0027s also the PCE based language is one we\u0027ve always talked about yeah yeah yeah I mean you know I mean listen all over anyway there are a load of solutions and we probably need one of those in place once one of those is in place to support debt NER to make it a bit more controlled than the OEM will naturally be paid sharing so I miss through it that we\u0027ve actually been here before with MPLS and as you may remember we talked about using sort of companion labels that were Co routed and had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:21",
    "text": "shared resources and we talked about in that in that context that that still wasn\u0027t adequate because you might have something in your your label database get corrupted so just because you use the same forwarding identifier or you use different sorry you use the same resources and the same paths because you use different traffic classification identifiers I\u0027ll be your OEM still may not succeed which is part of the reason why we ended up with - and gal so you know we\u0027ve been bit we\u0027ve been here before let\u0027s not forget those lessons right but certainly we can do some things like like resource sharing and and congruent paths yeah I remember you have to have the same key all the same queuing stuff you serve Klaus and all those sorts of things no it\u0027s worse ICMP ICMP is a crucial part of IP OEM it has none of that so so you have to set the explicit path such that the source destination pair is the is the trigger not a richer set of information in the packet right if if you correct if if you do your traffic you\u0027re getting it traffic\u0027s currently slice selection at a get NIT node based solely on IP source address pair then you\u0027ll pick up ICMP get get fancier than that and things start to get risky fast technology of one of the paths and he brought ipv6 where you\u0027ve got so many addresses you can throw them away in in large quantity then that\u0027s not a problem so I think we\u0027ve hit the point where it makes sense to ask similar questions like we did for MPLS does the group but go ahead yeah I actually well how many more slides did you have no no that\u0027s what no one side actually I\u0027m very excited that you decided to go to these questions because we have not thought about it that we\u0027ll be asking for the working group adoption well we\u0027re not asking for working group adoption what we\u0027re asking is is this a problem the working group even wants to work on so is IP om for IP debt net something the working group would like to spend energy on spend time on if interested put up your hand I would say that this is still a reasonable number it is definitely less than in the MPLS case which frankly I\u0027m surprised that I thought it would be the same if not more I rather read the room wrong you all MPLS is an easier problem yes ok we have a question of mic so the point I would make is the stores potentially is much much broader than just that net because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:24",
    "text": "actually we don\u0027t have a first-class IP OAM that we that has these properties our forwarding behavior is different than normal IP and so we definitely have a different problem and we also have different techniques available to us for for example part of our architecture is that all of our IP six tupled flows are explicitly controlled and so we can we can push some things on the control plane and place additional requirements on the control plane that doesn\u0027t of course answer what we\u0027re doing in the data plane but we we have some different tools sure we have a mo constrained problem but nonetheless this is part of a much wider problem the ITF hasn\u0027t solved I think that what\u0027s to say is that what we are monitoring into what we\u0027re measuring we don\u0027t know where it is in the network so we\u0027re knowing that we\u0027re doing it between two points we don\u0027t know which path this probes test packets are traversing um Norvin I\u0027m very much interested in I\u0027m more interested in the the plain IP o am then I am in MPLS because I feel like the MPLS OEM is not very hard so this is a lot more fun problem so if if so if somebody comes up with a plausible solution I want to hear about it but so I\u0027m just waiting to hear a plausible solution so at this point like to suggest that the folks who are interested in working on it self-organized yeah and and let\u0027s see what they come up with so the greg has nominated yourself by writing this document okay to coordinate the activity but let\u0027s see if we can get some critical mass of thinking on it and just like on the being discussion if you want to have a a the working group WebEx to have informal meetings you can do that that book is saying we will just contact the chairs and we\u0027ll set you up the other thing is is if you would like to ask for an interim on this we can also do that but we\u0027d like to ask first to do the self organizing thing and let us know how we the chairs can support the working group thank you and with that you\u0027re actually at a time you\u0027re fine you\u0027re fine here thank you now we really are in the control plane "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:31",
    "text": "actually in the beginning Andy will give this presentation but considering that he\u0027s not here so I am also in this work so I will do the presentation and here is I will work about the net controller plan framework here is the background actually although that then that control all controller plan is not in the chatter of the current and networking group but this part of work is not totally out of the sight of the net because in then at the architecture there is a section about the controller plan a corresponding to the aggregation of the control and management in fc7 4:26 and also in the tenant data plan draft we can see in the previous presentations that there are a lot of controller plan considerations included in the current draft so we are not this working we are not zero we have something but the purpose of this draft is that we want to summary all these efforts about general controller plan and also the requirement in one place and we want to provide an overview of the possible solutions for the net control plan especially in the architecture it can be a distributed system with signaling protocol it can be a fully centralized the controller weather controller as the in system or it can be a hybrid control plan a signal signaling protocol and also have a controller they work together this also aligns with a work in actuallyI the draft QC c is also have the similar structure these three class classes and also we want to discuss some control plant issues that are unique to that for example we have to build up explicit pathway resource reservation or we have to build up explicit paths with PR yo F and we have also some discussions about done as integration with the existing control plans for example the RMP is IP or as our seminal routing things so and also a Greg have some very great work about this part the management plan issues unique to ten that should also be considered so what is the next actually a we are not sure because the networking group is not currently chattered to work on the control plan now we just do the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:33",
    "text": "work about the architecture the data plan and the information model that data data model yamoto so we are wondering whether the controller plan solution is also needed in the working group and though whether the working group is going to reach had her about this part of work to make this discussions happen in the working group and so we of course the comments review or questions are welcome and also we want some feedback from the working group what will what should be done next that\u0027s all so from a I just looked at the architect that they sorry the Charter again to make sure that what I was going to say is right I think it is and I\u0027ll also look to Deborah re D to respond to this maybe not right now but afterwards after she takes a look at the Charter again and thanks about it but as I read the Charter we are certainly not chartered to do control playing solutions yes we are chartered to do the management and control architecture and make sure that we have the right information that we identify the information needed and the management and control plane so part of the document I think is in scope there\u0027s another part that is not in scope so going going and identifying the possibilities and the possible solutions sorry the possible ways you know distributed or centralized in multiple ways of controlling debt net I read our charter is allowing that in in terms of even identifying gaps in control plane solutions I think is is within our charter at least as I read it and I\u0027m I\u0027m making sure our ad is listening so she can she can tell me I\u0027m wrong now if we get to the point of saying we\u0027ve identified this and here\u0027s our solution I think we\u0027ve gone too far what we would need to do is go to the right working groups and talk to those group groups about the solutions so in terms of talking about the part of the solution space the architecture for control that\u0027s certainly there talking about what specific technologies are available I think I think we\u0027re on safe ground and you\u0027re doing that so I think most of this document were in good in okay place to have that discussion there are definitely places where you\u0027re saying let\u0027s solve it this way that yeah that\u0027s too far okay Stuart so I\u0027m a bit worried that we\u0027ve got cops feeding horses here because if we need to do a control plane solution which I think we do we do need a mecca needs to be in someone\u0027s charter to do it we shouldn\u0027t stall this whole program we have we have three or four working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:34",
    "text": "groups who have a charter of doing control playing an outing area so I think we can probably ask them say you own this protocol we see a gap do you want to fill it and it certainly if they come back and say no I think we have a really strong reason to go to the isg and say we should change our charter to allow us to do it okay but maybe somehow Oh need to get past that reasonably soon and if the original reason for not doing control plane work is because we wanted to get the data plane or I reckon we got the data plane in as good a shape as we can and it will be really useful to start early work on this other stuff so that we aren\u0027t yet because you know it takes a time when you need to think your way through it and I think most of what the document is doing today actually is it really helpful in your that discussion it we should get the structural and administrative reasons for not doing control playing out locate some be clear it\u0027s the specification of the control plane solutions everything up to that point which is like 98% of this document we can do here it\u0027s really the point that says I mean I think there was like two sections things got into solutions all right as long as we got a pop that seamlessly get one to control plane some way so one of the interesting things that happened or earlier this week in tease is there was a proposal for doing traffic engineering for IP flows and I asked about bringing in supporting the debt net IPE flow and the authors were receptive so we may actually end up with a solution that we can use before we\u0027ve even talked about the framework for it so so Blue Ensign a quick comment so given the situation where we have a good document what Lou has their printed out it\u0027s 98% correct I said if you go in Skokie 80% correct in scope its its scope is 98% correct it\u0027s not it\u0027s more to do to the document but it\u0027s a good document the the problem I have here is when Lou says we should give it to those are the working groups what is the is it the debt networking group shares that actually going to take that initiative or not if we get to when we get to the point of identifying shortcomings and we start talking about solutions it\u0027s at that point I think we need to coordinate with the a B and the other other chairs about how to how to go forward we don\u0027t we\u0027re not quite there yet if if now we\u0027re at the point where people are bringing contributions of control playing solution documents we can have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:35",
    "text": "that the discussion in specific rather than abstract by the way Andy malice had one comment in response to I think what I was talking about earlier with the Charter his feeling was he was being conservative in the reading of the Charter were it since control playing solutions were not there I guess he was reading it as we couldn\u0027t even talk about control plane which you know that the community the just to be you know clear you start out and talk about the second line in the Charter it says the work encompasses the data playing the data playing OAM time synchronization management control and security aspects referring of debt net so control management controls what we\u0027ve called the controller plane so you know from the architecture level from the high level that is certainly in scope so I\u0027m still a little bit concerned that you\u0027re actually pushing it way too out I\u0027ll see the two sections that you pointed out that were given too far they are an indication that this is already happening now so it should be proactive and take that decision take that action now to start discussing within the working group that we actually need to be involved I I think the next step is to get some proposed some proposals on the table around rather than talk and theoretical x\u0027 let\u0027s see the documents and figure out where where they belong so if someone has a control plane solution they\u0027ve been hanging back holding back on bring it forward and then we\u0027ll figure out where it where it goes contribute it somewhere could bring it into the IETF and if it\u0027s in the wrong working group we\u0027ll get into the right working group as you said let\u0027s let\u0027s not let\u0027s not hold up on process let\u0027s get the documents submitted so Erik gray Erickson I\u0027m gonna point out the elephant that we\u0027re all dancing around lose already kind of hinted at it we we could possibly have this work already beginning to start in the TS working group that\u0027s Lou talking to Luke so I mean really this is not as complicated as we seem to be trying to make yeah so we have a document on the table that is titled framework not solution so it\u0027s a framework document on the controller plane does like to gauge the feeling of the working group on whether the working group should be spending time on the architecture and framework level discussions of the controller plane so again this is something that\u0027s in scope revert Charter do we want to spend time on it who\u0027s interested in doing that I\u0027m not even to look down to see if jabber for Andy\u0027s hand is up I\u0027m sure it is so should we be working on the topic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "of controller plane it\u0027s a similar number to the previous one and a similar comment there there\u0027s a reasonable there\u0027s some some number there but frankly it\u0027s smaller than I expected but that\u0027s okay so there\u0027s some who thinks we should not be spending any time on this topic no one okay so that\u0027s that\u0027s useful information so I think for this document it would be good to carve out anything that a solution specifics and if you have some solutions that you think are necessary write them up and submit them separately but let\u0027s continue talking about the the document in the working group okay but in my personal opinion I think if we just have a line about what to do and what not to do first it will be very clear because in for example in this document we can point out which which section it\u0027s not in the current chatter don\u0027t worry about charter we worry about the technology in this document feel free to talk about what what is Miss Singh mm-hmm don\u0027t put solutions in this document okay do put solution if you have a solution to brain put it in another document okay contribute it to one of the working groups that you think is appropriate and the chairs will figure out where it goes and between the ad will figure out where it goes the biggest thing is contribute it bring it to the table let\u0027s get the discussions going so what is the point or purpose of the current draft perhaps it\u0027s just kind of the requirement for than that control plan is that the right direction what you\u0027re asking me the purpose of your document so it\u0027s a little without the detailed discussions about the Pacific a solution may be in the left part is the requirement right so we\u0027ve had other documents in other work groups I\u0027ve even written some which go through and say here\u0027s the set of things we need from the control plane and here\u0027s what\u0027s missing so it almost becomes a gap analysis document those are very useful documents ok so there\u0027s nothing and you\u0027re doing that you\u0027re talking and talking about what the options are and where the gaps are that helps guide the work that gets done so that\u0027s useful for me and yeah their comments okay and I I do note that our ad did not get up and shout at us so that\u0027s this is a good result thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:45",
    "text": "i\u0027m leon from china mobile and one of the author of the ring topology draft and today I\u0027m going to present as the author and with the update from last night\u0027s meeting so the update in this fourth zero full version mainly is the alignment of this draft OS the architectural draft so basically we use the terms that are defined in internet architecture so and it\u0027s also support the packet world of function and use the defined F label s label service level and the control world in data net architecture the presentation will be very short because I\u0027m going to only talk about the updates so the first one is in the single ring situation where you have a point-to-multipoint detonate service the document basically show in the ingress and egress a node of the Ring what type of function in terms of the replication elimination and reordering is needed so first for this particular example and in the ingress node which is a in here you will need to support the nodes of support the replication function and for for the leaf node in C D and F in this particular case the node need to support application and elimination and reordering if needed so this is basically the idea so for for for the egress node you basically read out the service read out the forwarding label to determine whether this is the fruit and this is the packet you need to help out and then you the node basically the service label to distinguish which service which definite service it is and then to decide whether it needs to be reordered according to the control world and in a more complicated situation where you have a interactive you have interconnected rings and in this particular case you have two interconnected node and to put in a short in this diagram basically the upper node in the interconnected area will we\u0027ll deal with the clockwise wrote and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:46",
    "text": "the bottom one will deal with the counterclockwise known so to be more in detail the the i1 know when they receive the packet from be it will basically forward a to pef the elimination function and the e-mini function will read out the packet and then replicate it again to the ring on the right hand side on the clock rise on a clockwise vote and then if the I too received a packet either from clockwise or counterclockwise on the left hand side ring and it will basically replicate the eliminate eliminate the packet first and then replicate the packet on the ring on the right hand side on the counterclockwise wrote and the other mechanism are all the same for single ring for the packet on the rain either on the left hand side or ring on the right hand side ray yep so summary the ring topology is very important for for long-haul transmission basically we\u0027re going to see and these type of ring topology very frequently in a network for long haul so we think it is very important for data net up to four week or for people to understand and to know how we should configure the ring topology for detonates services and basically rain topology intrinsically give you the protection with clockwise and counterclockwise route at the same time and and it\u0027s more efficient because it\u0027s only two copies of the packets to be sent and to guarantee your performance and we think after last meetings discussion and the revised version in this couple of months effort we think this document is in a pretty good status and so we would like to call for a working group adoption for this document thank you that\u0027s all from me I have a question for verification so what makes this so specific in the sense that we now have the emptyness data plane that describes engine generic I mean the data template opinion generic brillo "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:46",
    "text": "fans control hood and everything and we have a number of solutions for ring topologies of work is going on currently as well so I mean is it kind of an informational description on how to combine these into a solution or Wow Simona stir the this graph only describe specifically how you handle ring topology in our in a in a m+ a data plane that that\u0027s that\u0027s yeah that that\u0027s probably the the answer have you looked at the other MPLS ring solutions you mean in atlas linger in the ietf yes okay and you don\u0027t think they apply you don\u0027t think we can build on them well it\u0027s it\u0027s the principle are the same but it\u0027s it\u0027s really a guideline where when you introduce date and detonate services you basically introduce the replication and elimination and reordering functions which are not you know characteristics of native that\u0027s nice so we have two layers right you have the forty layer and the service layer and the free off lives at the service layer have you looked at taking advantage of the ring the existing MPLS ring solutions at the forwarding layer have have we looked at using the existing ring solutions as solutions at the forwarding layer right that\u0027s a good question so you know I know I understand if I read this correctly and it\u0027s it I haven\u0027t read the previous version of the draft I haven\u0027t read the new one but I think this is are more for the forwarding layer and then you need to add the application and elimination and reordering for the service layer so you shouldn\u0027t specify anything new for the the forbidding layer you should use our mrs at this cutie kampala I know nothing about DHCP so you always do uh two questions one is I haven\u0027t read the draft but how do you determine Farquharson anticlockwise is that something that scan figured or do you order discover that so how do I decide clockwise or anticlockwise yeah I mean every node has to have the same notion otherwise you\u0027ll have a packet going this way from A to B "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:46",
    "text": "and then if we things that clockwise is back to a so there\u0027s not how do you get every node on the ring to have the same idea of what is clockwise and what is and counter clockwise I\u0027m not quite sure well the Wow I might need to take this too too too too often discussion but in my point of view you basically set up you set up your SP so you couldn\u0027t figure in configuring it beforehand so so one of the advantages of our Mar 2 to it does this you know by advertising stuff into ice ice or SPF and it determines this automatically versus needing any configuration the other thing is in this two ring case you said the upper node and the lower node which makes sense but you need to do this in terms of you know in this case the upper node is i1 if you\u0027re going clockwise and for if you\u0027re going counterclockwise it\u0027s I to you need to have this either be algorithmically done or again you\u0027re going to use configuration the whole thing mode rings is if you\u0027re going to have lots of rings making sure you configure all the Rings correctly can be a big problem so the more you can make the Rings do this either algorithmically or by discovery or something the better you are in terms of making this a scalable solution from a management point of view right oh and one last thing is our cords I mean for example in some rings you have this thing called an optical bypass so physically you\u0027re still in a ring but you might have a link from say e 2g is that of any interest in that net or is that does not matter or do do not go by us yeah so I guess it\u0027s a question it\u0027s a question for the authors yeah the authors are the one to bring it right I can\u0027t answer that right now but I\u0027ll take it offline and have discussions okay okay I think the general comment is take a look at our Marv and see if you build on top of it yeah from a tree the there are many there are many ring protection mechanism for various transport network technologies including MPLS ARIMA on those photos rim protection mechanisms we cannot avoid traffic disruption in case of data failure but with this the net ring then the ring technology here for we can we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:49",
    "text": "can I mean in the event of NATO failure we we can avoid the traffic disruption I mean that we cannot we don\u0027t lose any packet so yes that\u0027s the advantage of this this document yes that but that feature comes the deafness so the deafness service correction the P of that\u0027s the feature that provides you that so it\u0027s as it has been pointed out we have two layers forwarding now [Music] existing technologies and as for the P of I wanted to also mention that what you can find is we call it a load or topology which is comprised of things and there were in 802 dot on CB what example is explained in detail where to place application of elimination points and so on how to leverage that affect their artifact of topology so it\u0027s a combination of the series informally right exactly I mean this I mean I heard a question about how you kind of use a conventional reading protection mechanism with is that net technology I need the net are in protection my answer is that or when you use this the net type of protection mechanism you disable that conventional protection mechanism in fording plan not for the fourth so for the right sub layer that\u0027s right okay it is the one and this draft I mean I know that Turtles the existing the net framework and architecture documents describe that later case including I mean this ring I mean ring with two interconnected nose can be seen as rather rare type reddit apollo\u0027s network yeah I know that but here is that the this draft at this document describes how you apply the net technology to the ring topology in details current current architecture and framework documents description we thought are not enough yeah I think you\u0027re suggesting that there there\u0027s a room for a pre off Oh Optima sorry and optimized pre off aware ring protection "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:51",
    "text": "scheme and you know that that may be the case and I think you need to articulate it a little bit better and in particular if talk about how you want to take advantage of our mr or why you think you can\u0027t take advantage of our mr i think that\u0027s a good discussion to have because we\u0027ve we\u0027ve worked since we it\u0027s a technology we\u0027ve worked on we want to make sure that if we can leverage it we can\u0027t we can and if we can\u0027t and it makes sense to do a pre off aware ring solution well we can go we can spend go to a bit deeper on that one of the things that of course will come up is how to skit make that scalable Christian education what do you mean by scalable I didn\u0027t hear the last word well what do you mean by scalable where that your ring protection scheme is where each each ring you don\u0027t have to have the same number of pre-op functions as you have in hand if there\u0027s a way to do that if there\u0027s some way to do some shared protection who do you if your only solution if your solution is is that at every basically every ring becomes a segment and you do free off within that segment for every flow that\u0027s that\u0027s gonna be a very expensive solution so maybe there\u0027s an opportunity to do something better you know through aggregation is what we could believe yeah I cannot get you kitchen right away but I can I can ask you and about the first one I mean we certainly can add the description on how that this can cooperate with our ml or any conventional implicature switching mechanisms because we can certainly do them I guess my my community compared my my comment is the way that they\u0027re using this in the ring since you\u0027re multitasking on both both paths you\u0027re not doing protection really what you\u0027re saying is if a link fails you still get the packet become going the other way around but armor has two parts to it one is the self-configuring of rings and the others action I think you don\u0027t need the protection part here but you do need the self-configuring to make it scalable from a management point of view Laura Anderson I got up here because I thought Lou was a little bit too vague when he said you take a look at the forum or well yes that you came back and said that they actually have to show that they can\u0027t use on Rory but I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "that\u0027s the case we need to look at or an hour and see if there is a synergy here and if we can use it we should use it in general we try not I mean I know some groups don\u0027t follow this but in general we try not to have two solutions for exactly the same problem so that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying I\u0027m not saying anything more than let\u0027s follow our standard practice of if there\u0027s an existing solution that is usable let\u0027s use it okay jungle you again about self auto auto configuration I mean they here the example is 4p2 MP multicast the services and the the bridge node over or to know that h22 to each leaf is aware of that I mean that I have I have a subscriber so there that there can in my understanding that is done by any any multicast a protocol but case configuration protocol and then maybe that once subscriber is attached EDA and then that can get the information I mean a signal and then enable packet replication functionality there can be done automatically well we look forward to seeing the update based on the discussion I think we\u0027ve had some good discussion and some good interest in this I think it\u0027s fair that we should have look the the Rai solution and and and but we also think that the the value of this draft is really to give a guideline of how you integrate the service layer consideration of debt not to to the rain topology as well yeah and and we look forward to seeing the update and wherever you end up based on your your exploration of the RMR yeah what you can use what you can use yeah all right with with that we\u0027re actually over time we managed to use all our time even though we had hoped we\u0027d have some additional conversation on SR v6 and bounded latency requirements if you have comments on those please take them to the list and continue the discussion there and thank you very much and we will see you online and then in Singapore and we\u0027re missing one blue sheet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:09",
    "text": "[Music] "
  }
]