[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "so Jacob this is Russ I see you in the medical room can you hear us hi did you send slides because these are kinder I can find him I did not send slides my update is very short I just wanted to make sure you weren\u0027t expecting something on the screen when good all right we\u0027re gonna go ahead and get started then so good morning and welcome to the lamps group yo\u0027ve is agreed to be the jabbers all right we\u0027re looking for a note-taker before we begin thank you rich are you gonna do it in the ether pad all right so everybody if you if you you\u0027re following along at home please help him get the minutes right all right blue sheets I sent around one since the number of people in the room isn\u0027t that many please make sure you sign it this is the agenda that we talked about on the list okay one thing to note is we were going to talk about Jim Chad\u0027s document RFC 5751 Biss but it finally made it to the RFC editors queue so we\u0027re not gonna spend any further time on okay next slide [Music] where\u0027s the note well ah there we go okay so you probably saw this a lot yesterday please review the note well and make sure that you comply thank you alright alright Jacob if you\u0027d get back in line we\u0027re gonna hand it over to you all right thanks so real short update on RFC sixty eighty four six eight four four bits and went through it\u0027s last call I believe it\u0027s about to be on its way to iesg I got a couple real small editorial fixes at the last minute from Rob those are in the github copy Russ should I upload a fresh draft or should we catch those in the editor q what\u0027s your suggestion there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:24",
    "text": "so yeah you sent one you posted one yesterday yeah and I finished the Shepherd write-up based on that and sent it to the is G okay great so we\u0027ll just have a couple of last week\u0027s fixing Rob\u0027s affiliation and fixing weapons to our sets but other than that basically I\u0027ve done document okay any questions okay Thank You Jacob okay this document is in working group last call at the moment next slide this is just a reminder of what it does this was discussed in Montreal and we had a exchange with Stephane who was proposing that there might be another approach to this he and I met after the session talked it through and he acknowledged that in the case where there is no problem this one\u0027s more efficient in the case where a problem does occur that he had a particular edge case about that was sorted out by rolling the key twice and so I added that observation to the security considerations and that\u0027s the version that the working group adopted next slide this is an overview of what\u0027s going on when you generate your first key pair you generate the second key pair as well and include the hash of the public key of the certificate the trust anchor certificate and then when you roll to the second one you generate the third when you include its hash so you\u0027re just staging creating a way that relying parties can confirm which public key to trust when they see it next slide this is the certificate extension the syntax is pretty straightforward it\u0027s just a which hash algorithm was used followed by the hash itself of the de are encoded subject public key info next we\u0027re in working group last call as I said the security considerations were expanded based on the discussion in Montreal then the working group adopted it I\u0027m asking you as part of the working group let\u0027s call please review it send comments and this is intended to be an informational document and of course since I\u0027m offering it Tim will make all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:25",
    "text": "of the consensus calls related to it any questions okay please send your comments it\u0027s a short document Thanks all right thanks everyone you\u0027re up next shakes um since last time it went through a working group last call and yeah the only three slice Oh as only two slides that\u0027s the introduction they said nothing should I go okay and when when the first working group last call and team shot identified many issues with the documents so we make you know changes to the documents to to certified key comments and right now we have several things which need comments or suggestions from the whuppin group the first thing we did was replace the the ECDSA with a random k with the deterministic version and yeah and then the the chairs told us to go ahead with the deterministic tape version of the algorithm and also we proposed to replace the kmac in the key generation method would shake because we\u0027re using a shake for the signature so we\u0027re not you say instead of h mac and and we need comments or any consensus from the chair on Dass also we replace the mass "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:27",
    "text": "generation function in the in the in the X non-standard was the shake shall shake now is the new gia mmm TF naturally is it fits well and it works well and also we updated the Security section consider security considerations and also we pointed out the property of a shake functions is that similar to like any flesh Mac or sha-512 function for example for the H Mac sha-1 sometimes people use you know truncated outputs like 96 bits instead of the 4 before hash function or something and the shake has the same property so when somebody desire of protocols or looking at different protocols and they need to to take a closer look to make sure they don\u0027t have related or potential witnesses in in all uses in an inner protocol or across protocols but mostly it\u0027s just natural deterministic function so when Jim proposed this on the list that we use shake as the mask generation function we asked the see if our G if there was any problems with that they had a brief discussion which basically everybody who read the document said yep that seems like a completely good fix in terms of compatibility so then Queen updated the document so we just I just wanted to make sure everyone aware it was aware we got the C FRG review of that idea why well I understand then you can sit further up like like I don\u0027t wanna be yelling at quitting from the back of the room I don\u0027t plan to yell at all so I just wanted to ask about the ECDSA I think it\u0027s fine German that I guess what is interrupt impact of that namely I don\u0027t believe there is because my understanding is that they were c4 no way validating that you use your mystic a terminus take a but this is just this is this is merely this is merely our advice on how to implement it maybe it\u0027s mandatory advice but that\u0027s all it is right I really did not catch on opinion set but generation verification the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "for everything generation is different right so so we\u0027re are we saying we so what did you is this a shirt or a must wear G\u0027s for the true mystic I think right now I I would recommend to go for people just if we want only one version dentist that\u0027s pick one and big one and we have to go with the most well I mean the fastest interoperable means you don\u0027t do either right I mean as I understand it right on I mean so so I [Music] mean I make I guess my point is that like you have a you have like a box which is ECDSA and like and and generally they\u0027re only from the phoenicians perspective that box does whatever it does and that box has like some function it uses for like for determinate for generating K right and maybe that function is realistic me it\u0027s not for mistaking maybe use Shah movie uses these a yes or whatever right so I guess like I guess my point is that this is that everything else here is is is is is protocol and operability and not implementation and this is implementation I wrong I mean so I guess wire I guess I\u0027m just trying to figure out why anything needs to be done here the thing is in the in the fifth when eighty six the random K is the part of the specification originally so if somebody wants to claim to would have to compliance with these back and then K must be generated in the way the FIP says but right now is case in a read it in different way but we are my point is we already have another I can\u0027t remember the RC number we already have an hourish a more defining yes we do just reverse the key CDSA yeah and there\u0027s the best of my knowledge no reason to believe that like that the key generation function in that is not as perfectly satisfactory and and the and there\u0027s no interoperability impact whether you use that key generation function or some new like my point is you\u0027re now creating a new implementation of key CDSA that is no interoperability in fact right the Federation is the same footprint so I don\u0027t understand why I understand why you don\u0027t just point to the existing ECDSA spec and existing deterministic ECDSA ECDSA is back in stop uh we we did point it down to the the deterministic version of EC they say they are I\u0027ve seen yes right but so what is this support me ye the support um in that I out see I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:32",
    "text": "believe it provides a complete back for EC they say it mentioned describe several things but I I don\u0027t think that I don\u0027t think it is a complete spec for deterministic easy they say it\u0027s pointed to some other standard for respect and then it pointed out here is K should be generated differently from the from the other standard okay but that\u0027s not like specifying a turistic ECDSA is not screen scope for this working group nope so so many defects inadequate then or any different spec that make it adequate so um yeah essentially this section is basically pointing out to the to the deterministic RFC oh it does and then it\u0027s right now it proposed proposal II saying instead of use H Matthews came back to replace H match in that ARP see I understand what I\u0027m saying why why what why are you why are you saying anything about how that our seasoned planet all right we see if I can help translate the other the RFC about deterministic ECDSA tells a way to do it you\u0027re saying kmac also is another way to generate that input generic a eric\u0027s asking why does the protocol document say anything about that at all just say use deterministic ECDSA and stop that\u0027s my question yes but right rena in RFC it uses only 2h mac so and we we we think it\u0027s make sense to use kmac instead of H map okay but wait a second like say I have say I have an implementation let\u0027s like let\u0027s take out the entire limitation system right I have a key generation function starting with randomness that key generation function starts like May or make me use H back internally may use a yes and let me use anything right it\u0027s just it\u0027s just it\u0027s just a PRS appear in G right like that uses H Mac or use this document can also say like stop using H Mac there it\u0027s just none of your business no okay that\u0027s that\u0027s no point of view but I think anything we we if we should say something or we allow something expect something we should be more concrete about what we people should or should not do for example instead of you know random K we not normally say okay case randomly generated but how this is you know the methods we believe we feel comfortable with how to do two random K generation that\u0027s how we do it but you know if if you want to say okay random K and you stop there that\u0027s that\u0027s fine but for us you know I would go further to to say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:33",
    "text": "something you know what this is not about deterministic versus random this is about implicitly updating the deterministic you see I say expect to including a hash our include I just don\u0027t for them which is not like like the scope if you want if you want to write a what is it if you\u0027re on already to a t-33 to Biff\u0027s guys soon so so basically say just say Sheriff so right now in the in the documents basically it says it gives reference to that type C and then it just say instead of using H Matthew K map and you you seem like want me to do something different yes I want you to take that sense out so that means like kmac won\u0027t we use then I\u0027m saying I\u0027m saying like okay I\u0027m saying there\u0027s no this protocols business which function you use generate K like whether its a Mac or a track so you saying if we want to use kmac to replace H map we have to update that I\u0027ve seen that\u0027s all you that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying right if it\u0027s for that RC and then um I mean I think like yeah right this for that are sick okay so is a lot of discussion ascended to to what you really would like us to do technically they are the same but if that approach you want us to do you know I mean I guess the chest you know I don\u0027t think it is because where you put it it only affects us fine Eric saying if you put it the other document affects anybody who wants to use deterministic he\u0027s correct come on that\u0027s what I mean generally yeah I mean but yeah but he has we only do what what we an authorized to do right here I\u0027m saying you\u0027re not a Thursday this kmac you\u0027re not authorized to be 83 to what you\u0027re doing oh okay all right if that your interpretation then I I follow what the chairs and a group won us to do I it makes sense it has its reason good reason so to to the care those example constructions either it\u0027s you or they are the specifications no in it no no it\u0027s just a smack in saying was he like I guess blind what well I would like you to be able to do it maybe clear well I think they\u0027re reasonable thing for the Stockton to do is I think this document watch to be like I assume what your attempt to achieve is a protocol specific implementation which does not use shot anywhere right and so saw shot to anywhere and so I think if to send to which um you know so the question I\u0027m asking is if you safe deterministic ECDSA that force the implementation you Shaw or interesting earth or is that that is H masters exemplar in human in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:33",
    "text": "IFC is H Matthews it shot to but does it say that\u0027s the only thing you can use is just say you should use a PRF and here\u0027s one example construction I think it was Suffolk let\u0027s say a smack would would shot - okay right that\u0027s that that\u0027s that that\u0027s Traverse to ECDSA oh no I can ECDSA no ie if if I\u0027m not if I if I\u0027m not wrong then I think it it pacifically uses and says H Mac with sha to sha to something south to 36 or shot to right well so I mean that\u0027s like okay like I mean so it\u0027s like like it\u0027s generally unfortunate if we\u0027re citing like if we have like again I\u0027ll I don\u0027t have the facts are so on maybe I should zoom but and we just look it up but um like it\u0027s generally unfortunate if we\u0027re telling people to use deterministic ECDSA and that\u0027s tying them into one hash function but that\u0027s like a problem with that that specification which would be sure which we should fix um so if the objection is that nobody could nobody in that IETF can use deterministic ECDSA without using shot - then we should miss that specification and and say and and make it and say it has to be a PRF and then get and then give examples the PRF what we shouldn\u0027t do is like attempt to piecemeal patch here um you have no reason I don\u0027t I don\u0027t I don\u0027t see any wrong with your approach um it just it just the direction and it tastes the chairs want to take us from here but do we have the authority to do this that I have see because that that author by somebody else by by Thomas that\u0027s not in our charter yeah okay information no like hi Jonathan hey mo from Canaan center for cybersecurity I just have a minor point about when you talked about using K Mac technically kmac uses C Shake in which case the security considerations don\u0027t apply because it doesn\u0027t have that problem with overlapping outputs for different lengths yeah right you right it just generally talking about a shake alone yeah generally we were talking and so Malik give elapsed to the point the acre was making before in the draft I think now is written must you must use kmac could that be a me so that you can use other constructions and you don\u0027t limit so if I want to have an implementation that is compliant I don\u0027t have to use kmac and I can use something else that would be a way to do it but not the only way to do it yeah but that has this reason but the thing is when we\u0027re saying that and then we both you know feel like I can use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:35",
    "text": "anything I want that doesn\u0027t seem to be a good idea you have to be specifically what what do you feel comfortable for you to recommend people instead of say we will use anything I want now and the Senate I\u0027m just saying that if you put the must any implementation has to use that cannot use anything else if you use me we can have some implementation that use other constructions that are still secure and you know the brief occasion is not a problem it\u0027s just a way that you can strike there yep that if that that works that works for you better than I think I have no objection to that but yeah and I think that anchor the noise is that work out for you if that would that would make imitation in a more complex you have char and then you have shout to you know K generation and then here you do have seen everything here with H man with kmac so it makes us situm later Baker but that\u0027s not what you want then I have no objection to that okay yeah it\u0027s fine I think you have no thing nothing wrong with the the H Mac will shout - nothing wrong in my understanding it just if you want things more efficient and you don\u0027t want to have two different headphones and running everywhere in your application why you don\u0027t need both of them in the same time the only one of them at the same time but it\u0027s you know if you want one application with two headphones in India on a security perspective I don\u0027t see prop in a problem with them in this particular application descriptor Pro thinker magic win for the presentation I just wanted to support expeditions that if we want to generalize the construction with deterministic ECDSA it\u0027s definitely a good way to go only to piece the document not to include some additional ways to implement that in other protocols so it\u0027s just a not good way to go because we really need I believe that it\u0027s they say in deterministic wave nation way is chemic but not only there and so if you would like to do this work of Beeson RFC 69 79 if not mistaken then I\u0027ll be happy to help it\u0027s if his work is needed thank you okay thank you yeah thank you so I\u0027m not bothered to like look through since 89 um so yes clear it does say H back so clearly any said age to 69 79 like would imply using H buck the correct fix for this is so like I\u0027m concerned about the ITF going forward and the correct fix for this is to be 69 79 so that it specifies so a it specifies like basically any suitable like PRF and b "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:35",
    "text": "and b then b specifies kmac and i don\u0027t know how like as a registry or some such nonsense that\u0027s basically the point being that what I want to do is I want to say 69 79 had that cover on a variety of CCDs instantiations with other prfs and so and not have to have like everybody either say it say 69 79 but it\u0027s also fine if you use k mac or $6.99 with them a fight there so um it\u0027s like the appropriate place to piss that is a forgery so if you like I mean I would say so I think these are completely separable um I think um you can just remove the section just say 69 79 and um and then this document contains perfectly well and then 160 no I\u0027m the K Mac is done that will update 79 and you\u0027ll be good to go okay that dot that would be nice but do you and do the ID authority to to miss that I\u0027ve see or no not share for Judith okay so that means I mean we could do it but I mean you just got an offer for help I don\u0027t think so 14 nobody suppose she is decided by by their coaches right I understand but like but like and I don\u0027t know if they they they are going to okay would like to do now I don\u0027t know if CFR G opposes the consider publication a 1679 with with shake I assure you I\u0027m not gonna prove shake shake no I\u0027m understanding point of view but I just I just don\u0027t know what future acts and we will we live life my point is that the purpose of C of our G is were evaluated these constructions okay okay okay so if again Alexei Melnikov not here but I believe that if we have any reasonable updates for our C 69 79 then I believe that Sarah she will support this book because it\u0027s really useful or C and it\u0027s quite good ideas daisies with sha fat reconstruction but I don\u0027t see the reasons for guys in suffrage e2 not to do this work if if you were volunteer to be the one who pushes it I certainly I have my full support for an effort in Gao Qi for doing this I\u0027m just I\u0027m just I\u0027m just saying that you know we we need say Bochy to take a look and then decide and tell us what to do so could you please send an email to see or maybe just raise this question in Prague so I believe so it\u0027s also 3G support this work okay III I do what what a group things the best thing to do I do it okay thank you and in personal oh thank you in advance thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:38",
    "text": "um right next slide a few questions yeah we need to to generate the iesson and one module for for the CMS a draft and also you know more reviews are better own ways and also Jim raised a question he asked about whether or not we should allow short detects for for kmac in in in many cases it makes sense have short attacks if you cares about the size but for security I would go to the for size and I feel happy about it the bigger more comfortable I feel but some of the situations people my-my-my decide to cut down to size and I don\u0027t know if the chairs and a working group would like to do that yeah the chairs will have to tell me what to do I think you take Eric\u0027s advice remove the kmac discussion all together fix the asn.1 module then we do work in group last call okay so as they have achieved about the yes work as you\u0027re still gonna reference the deterministic ECDSA RFC and when that one gets bist the reference will be resolved okay so you again I just want to be sure I got the direction for what what I should do is that I should add set by Gd regarding to the short attacks that I\u0027m still confused about ad no you want to talk to them about supporting kmac in deterministic ECDSA Jim\u0027s question doesn\u0027t apply if K Mac is not raised in this document no but okay Mac in here it just it\u0027s not using that ECDSA this came out alone by itself for CMS oh I\u0027m sorry I misunderstood that\u0027s why I was confused I didn\u0027t know what I\u0027ve always assumed that this was fine to truncate yeah but like I\u0027d like to see a statement from somebody who\u0027s fine a truncate so here either cfrt should say it or you should have a citation that is fine you know I don\u0027t know which I if we have those things to hand then I think it\u0027s fine but I think like like like again like working so I Michigan step back my thesis here both with the previous point in this is regional IETF wide understanding of what constructions are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:38",
    "text": "findable contractors are not and so um I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s fine to consortin take a Mac but we should I 85 you\u0027re standing that\u0027s fine and so um and so like like what basis do we think it is fine it depends you mean make certain attacks it depends on the desires and the the uses of the decay matter its varies from application application sure it depends demands on application is the caveman situation when I\u0027m designing a new protocol called like lamps in the light and I was lighting someone suggest I should use shorter tags on what base is joining to decision and I\u0027d like to not have to hear what I just heard from you here\u0027s the question yeah it\u0027s like that\u0027s why I said I feel comfortable with two for size but if some other people like Jim wants you short attacks and and it depends on you know what application and where situation is in a dorm for for me to write some some good recommendation but so that\u0027s why I\u0027m asking the group how to handle this Jonathan MO again can flexibility not be put in the draft like in the ass and not one module two to allow a tag length be specified and then it\u0027s up to outside outside the scope I guess to determine what size people want to use that would be a fine option to me the only thing is that I really don\u0027t worry about to use too short text yeah because if they use like 64-bit tech and then they use in a high volume traffic and that would maybe make me feel extremely nervous but if they use of the for tech like that and like in almost all of the practical applications in the world is still safe but you\u0027re right um it\u0027s up the application they decide what tech size I want to use that would be fine with me but I would if we did that and I would hope to put some advice into the the document saying you know how how much traffic they they they should they should restrict depends on the tech side I use if a text size like this tune this a bit and it seems to be good for for everywhere but if like you get to the very very short tax then it has to be really careful about about where you use it not a choreographer my understanding is the situation with authentication tags is roughly the same between HVAC and came at is that correct so what do we do for HVAC we just leave it to the H "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:40",
    "text": "max back which has a full in tech yeah so I would suggest that use a full length hike here if someone wishes to promulgate a tag truncation mechanism then they can probably come along at that for both kmac NH mac but like this seems like since I understand the purpose this document be to to allow you to prusik a Mac only a shot three only suite like I don\u0027t see who any reason any different from each back and I\u0027m not opposed to shorter tags but I\u0027m saying like let us do them but a special ties orthogonal a to came back for a stick back benkei doc I agree with that career I\u0027ll just point out that we have used truncated HTML tags in other protocols you know careers whatnot so there\u0027s some level of priority and and I\u0027d be stuck as well it\u0027s been widely used I think the 96 bits H Mac yep so it looks like living there long full size for now with the document that is that my correct understanding of it you want me to do yep okay any other questions or comments for me to for us improve documents this is a group group the groups document not mine document so you you are responsible for this okay all right thank you okay in Montreal we talked about hash-based signatures and using them in CMS and then since Montreal the working group adopted this draft and we\u0027ve had a couple revisions next slide you\u0027ll know that the CFR G has been working on hash based signatures for more than five years the research group has completed their last call on the gurus hash sigdoc provide a bunch of things about what\u0027s going on there the bottom line is that you have a small amount of code to validate a signature that\u0027s very can be done very quickly however the signature itself is quite large and but these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:41",
    "text": "signatures are quantum resistant Thanks so the sorry there\u0027s a typo on this slide the mts in the middle of this should not be there that one application where this makes sense is for signings firmware packages RFC 4108 describes one way to do that using CMS and I think this is important because we want to deploy a quantum resistant signature now so that when you want to deploy code in the future you if a quantum computer of significant scale comes to pass in the next decade or so then we\u0027ll be able to validate the signatures on the code that deploys the new quantum resistant capabilities next slide so some recent errors were fixed found by Daniel thank you for the review we I think we\u0027re ready for working group last call soon that is when the draft McGrew arrives in the RFC editor queue that\u0027s what I mean by soon should be soon since the research group has finished their last call anyway I\u0027m asking for review and comment now that document seems to be stable and once again since this document I picked up the pen Tim will make all the consensus calls any questions okay thank you so following on the let\u0027s be ready for quantum computers just in case this is an another solution the idea here is to mix a PSK in with either a diffie-hellman or RSA type results so that we can so that even if a quantum computer is invented we have the attacker has to learn the PSK as well as break the public key algorithm next slide so what the concern is is that an adversary will save a content that is produced today and then Sunday and save it away and then someday when they do get a hold of a large-scale quantum computer they\u0027ll be able to break the key management and the solution is to mix a strong PSK with it and then that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:42",
    "text": "the near-term solution the long-term solution of course is to deploy a quantum safe public key technique that is the winner of the nist competition next this approach that i\u0027ve proposed in this document deals with two kinds key transport that\u0027s RSA\u0027s style key management and key agreement that is to ECDSA style and it mixes a PSK in with the result of either of those techniques next slide this provides an overview of how that actually works in each of the cases in the key transport case the originator makes up a key and encrypts it in the public of the recipient and then both parties take that key that the originator made up and mixed it with the PSK and in the second case the key agreement the sender of the message uses the recipients public key their private key produce a shared secret and that shared secret gets mixed with the PSK so there was a privacy observation that an observer who can watch which PSAs are being used by each of the parties can learn what groups talk to each other I observe this really isn\u0027t making things any worse because in key transport the recipient key identifier that is when the originator uses the public key of the recipient we pass along an identifier of that key so the recipients can find which piece of CMS is for them and in the case of key agreement the long-term public key is put in a certificate and either the issuer serial number or the recipient key identifier identifies the recipient anyway so including the additional PSK an identifier isn\u0027t making it any easier or harder for an attacker to learn who\u0027s talking to who I\u0027m generally sympathetic to this argument but if I had if I had to PS case if I had suppose it\u0027s supposed to situation we have one recipient who has two PS case with different people then the then when then you\u0027d be able distinguish the sender\u0027s even if the even the recipients so so the recipient for sitting in for as you say would say I\u0027m sending to you but you share one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:42",
    "text": "piece came with me and one with then maybe in this case you\u0027d be able to tell Sakura be Hotel weather isn\u0027t your been sent in to you well it wouldn\u0027t know who it was but if you see it from these measures Rabanne this measure me right right I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a huge Isis but just know I don\u0027t come that\u0027s actually if you look at the way KEK are handled in CMS same situation that you\u0027re passing a key identifier so right no okay no yeah anyhow is problem like no we\u0027re exactly saying this you could wrap if you want to a bunch after trouble you could wrap the PS cake and a fire under encryption under the under the public key encryption and that would remove the problem like don\u0027t oh yeah okay I\u0027ll have to think about that but I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s worth it it\u0027s gorge opinion right given all the other things that we\u0027ve all agree is true on this slide I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s worth it I know channeling Stephan Sanderson my worry is that this turns a public key algorithm into a secret key algorithm and thus won\u0027t work as a replacement for use of public key algorithms in most cases that\u0027s correct so following up on that this is Dan Okrent Gilmore um what\u0027s the what\u0027s the usability story here yeah have a do you have any I know this is the ITF we\u0027re just working on the network protocol but like do you actually have a story where you can imagine this thing being deployed um I think it can be used in groups and the question is how big is the group where they\u0027re all using the same PSK in the ayah of course the bigger the group the more likely it\u0027s going to leak and so on so you\u0027ve got to balance those things but the idea is that say the finance department could all have one PSK and so on like that so that they can continue to do things pretty much as they do today someone and you have to roll like any other symmetric algorithm you have to roll the the Keys periodically but that\u0027s the idea is that then the attacker would have to get that group key as well as a quantum computer okay so hey squealing so I have a comment so I understand actually how to get the PS keys out of out of the scope of your documents but my comment is that actually PAE is a very promising message to get that to get the PS key condoling meaning not so many very good can you talk to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:43",
    "text": "microphone please okay my question was do you have a post quantum Paik because if you use a non post quantum peg to share the PSK then you\u0027re back in the soup exactly yeah it\u0027s a good topic yeah actually we all have some ongoing research paper about quantum secure yeah yeah PS key another please starts to the microphone not so material yet so yeah I think the the base question is please share please send us a fake that that is post quantum and that we\u0027ll look at that too so this also means maybe it is a something like an open question for us yeah so how together contem safe PST Kirk yeah yeah maybe this can be yeah can be make an announcement or something because they all rely on some public key technique buried at the core so I think this is getting really close to ready for a working group last call however I\u0027m concerned that there\u0027s been not much discussion on the list so I\u0027m pleading with you to review and comment on the list thank you who\u0027s got the blue sheets [Music] Daniel we\u0027re looking for your slides oh and I hear we hear you okay so this draft is to add hash-based signatures to x.509 certificates it\u0027s kind of played three and make things quantum safe followed by or after the two things that Russ is presented previously more specifically in those again SS and SS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:45",
    "text": "Russ\u0027s first presentation kind of went over the reasoning for it why to use hash based amateurs that are well studied secured against quantum computer is already notified why DS algorithms specifically HSS and X and SS / XM s SMT a small private public he\u0027s fast signing but large signatures and State Board so there is some use cases for this at x.509 and entity not really a good use case because managing state is hard and if you fail to manage state securely that means you could end up reusing the one-time signatures in these algorithms and if you have a limited number of signatures then increasing the number of signatures will increase the signature size interact in the interactive protocols it\u0027s not great you can use it each SM to manage state and you have more control over the number of signatures but it\u0027s okay if you can live with the same exercise the best use case for this is certain non interactive protocols that is ca certs and code signing which Russell agreed to earlier his first draft is appropriate for climbing you can use HSM to the understate you have more control over the signatures exercise not so much with issue and the important thing is that these signatures signature algorithms are ready to deploy now for longer-lived certificates such as IT and automotive next slide so I mean basically this is it this is it this draft is going to send dispatch later well for me tomorrow morning but for you guys later today to see what they think about it maybe send it to lamps and for us and lamps is there interested in this will people be commenting or reviewing on it and just as a note it\u0027s already been partially aligned with Russ\u0027s first draft in hashtags and CMS and it would continue to be aligned with that so comments interest wait for sec dispatch yeah so I asked Daniel to talk about this a little bit here today because if SEC dispatch says oh it comes to lamps I try to peek further along then hearing about it for the first time at the neck at IETF 104 so what let\u0027s talk as though sick dispatches said let\u0027s send it to lamps and see see if there\u0027s interest mexicana collabs some more question if it\u0027s sent to lamps do we need to recharge we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:46",
    "text": "probably will and that comes to the any other business on the agenda we probably have to process a charter update for something else anyway so yes so this is forward forward looking we have a kind of a similar proposal goes in the direction of adding the possibility to have different type of signatures and keys in certificates and many other PK acts objects so when we\u0027re each other maybe we can include you know this type of work that would be great hi my name is sean turner and read the strafes real quick it\u0027s not that long basically it\u0027s got exactly what needs to be in there to do the things to marry up with Russ\u0027s draft so if it were to be accepted good it would be fairly short I would think discussion hopefully leading quickly to over in group last call because there\u0027s just not a lot there it\u0027s asn.1 and formats that are based in RFC 59 11 and 12 off you go [Music] that\u0027s what I was hoping I basically copied most of your text Sean much cheaper okay any any further comments or questions okay thank you thank you okay there\u0027s a one other bit of any other business that has come up since we published the agenda and that is Alexi stopped me in the hallway yesterday and said hey you know I presented that thing in Montreal about header protection and then I wrote a draft can you adopt it and I said no we can\u0027t adopt it so we do a charter change and so we had a some email discussion with Acker pointing him to what was going on and so Eric would you support a charter change in that direction I guess I have two preliminary questions one did the chairs feel like they have that or clears the dam with state this work on yeah I think I think it\u0027s a pretty straightforward document okay and the second is people and this working group understand what this is about and do they want to do it that is exactly the question the questions are affirmative "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:46",
    "text": "then I\u0027m okay this is dkg so I\u0027ve offered to co-author the draft with Alexei I do think it\u0027s important I think it is travesty that we actually don\u0027t have the stuff widely implemented I\u0027m also working with other folks who are mail user agent implementers who have implemented header protection that is working between multiple user agents today that\u0027s simply in a mechanism that is not documented here and I think the header protection draft that we\u0027re working on is going to work for both PGP mom and s/mime with the same mechanism and so yes I fully support this spell new horizon and you\u0027re speaking for the pepper pretty easy privacy guys we have four implementations that use had a protection but in a way that is small s just end up way now like encapsulating the whole message into as a mime attachment to the normal message except that is fought equals no is not yet there of course because it\u0027s new but if this is going forward people just implement it as well because it\u0027s useful feature for the presentation and you would also support this work to go forward hopefully now away I wanted to hear this round first okay so after Alexei posted the pointer to his individual draft how many people read it okay five six people and if the work was to be taken on by this group and ultimately lead to an RFC how many people would implement it - for sure alright there\u0027s some of the big mail vendors are not in the room to say one way or the other so so I\u0027ll just say that there are multiple implementers who are already implementing it so in the event that we don\u0027t document it that\u0027ll be fine it\u0027ll just be documented somewhere else but it\u0027s kind of sad if the ETF\u0027s working group that\u0027s supposed to be dealing with with the way that email works can\u0027t document the things that people are actively doing today so those books aren\u0027t in this room necessarily but there are other implementers you get them two of these speak up and Alyssa that\u0027ll do it yes I spoke with several folks there was an open PGP summit about a month ago where there were people there were about two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:47",
    "text": "dozen people many of whom are mail user agent implementers and there was active interest in it and yes I can get more people to participate I don\u0027t know that I can get them all on the Lance list we\u0027ll see but yeah fair enough to be clear my standard here is like there are enough people to work on it that will deliver a recent document and then have people implement it to make the document useful and if the milling wisdom is very says two things and I\u0027m sort of doing it okay so again in the any other business section does anyone have something to raise can I get a sense of what the next steps are in order to consider this as a retarding because I want to report back to the folks that I spoke to at the open PGP summit so that I can give them we\u0027re gonna draft some charter text and then send it to understand but that\u0027s the next step and so the discussion of that charter text is the next thing you\u0027ll see on the list and so then people could say yes that looks good to me and yes I will implement it that okay Eric wants to see in order to okay but so in terms of like a timeline and folks are doing this they\u0027re people are gonna be and people are already working on this that\u0027s already implement they\u0027re already implementations so just I\u0027m just trying to make sure that I can report back to them in a way that they\u0027re not gonna be like oh so you\u0027re telling me wait two more years and then there will be a second all implemented then no I mean I know it might happen I\u0027ve been at the hay tip for awhile like I\u0027ve seen I\u0027ve seen the process so chartering takes two to three months yeah I mean this computer charted in two months if he\u0027s our the discretion to list now I mean that the hard deadlines are all present we take you four weeks like deal with it and then have to do it to a guy tell us call and hospital chassis you looking at like six to eight weeks but you will do the right things we can do it so so the retiring takes time and we can and Alexei and I will be working on versions of the draft which will remain in the you know as individual address for now correct okay okay and that that part can go is parallel okay no one else having any other business for the group thank you we\u0027re done [Music] did everyone sign the blue sheet okay Thank You Came Act tag link we\u0027ll be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:14",
    "text": "sending the CF RG summer you you "
  }
]