[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "okay um it is uh 10 o'clock so we're going to go ahead and get started um i want to give a couple people some reminders anybody who is here in person please remember to scan the qr code because that's how you sign the blue sheet those of you who are remote by joining the meeting you have have been added to the blue sheet um yes so remote people can you hear me now that i've tapped on the mic and blown out your ears uh james i see you remote can you hear one of you could say something or tap yeah we can hear you so the volume's a little bit on the low side but but it's quite all right all right i'll take my my uh mask off for this and try to speak louder um anyway great also uh as a reminder for folks in the room and remote there is a way to join the queue so uh just be sure to um join the queue and we'll go back and forth based on the queue as opposed to who's physically in the room with that we'll go ahead and get started"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "so we have a pretty this is an official ietf meeting the notewell that you've been seeing in other meetings this week does apply so now somebody that's remote needs to mute great thank you so the note well applies a couple other things if you are in the room the ietf is requesting that everybody wear masks unless you're speaking at a microphone and if you get close enough sometimes that you can keep the masks on even for that the i think that's uh scribe then you're going to take notes right theater excellent there is if you join the notepad that's linked off of data tracker you can contribute to the notes as we go along uh we find that doing this online helps us get our minutes done in a much more timely manner i know that i personally am responsible for several sets of late minutes so that way we have a record of at least what we have so feel free to contribute to the minutes as we go the [Music] um oh the 114 meeting tips i forgot that we added this here's your 114 meeting tips in particular there's the be sure to sign up which we've already talked about use meat echo to join the mic queue keep your audio and video off if you're not using the on-site if you're using the on-site audio and video off if not using the on-site version i don't think that's quite right but yeah double negative yeah there's something wrong with that sentence"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "wear masks i've already talked about remote participants uh make sure your audio and video is off unless you're sharing or presenting or speaking in the queue feel free to turn on your obviously your audio but definitely your video as well if you wish for the queue and use of a headset is strongly recommended um so here's our agenda for the day uh this is our uh administrative and agenda bashing portion we have a pretty light agenda dieter and i dropped the ball on scheduling our virtual interim that we were going to schedule about three or four weeks ago and so we don't have some of the work queued up here for this meeting that we had hoped but we do have a few things that we want to go ahead and get moving and then we'll talk about scheduling virtual interims going forward i'm going to preface it with we're we're thinking about trying to go ahead and have a standing virtual meeting uh every month and that way we can schedule it if we we can cancel it if we don't have work to do but we're hoping that that'll keep us making some progress in a more timely manner um so the is there any agenda bashing any additions comments or additions to the agenda okay great uh so our working group status uh the yang data model has been published uh thank you very much to everybody that was involved in all of that work uh and in particular uh dhruv who really uh drove the drove it over the finish line um so that has that is completed we have two documents currently uh in iesg stages both interleave modes and the uh mode six commands uh we're still working through those and hopefully we will make some progress shortly on those we've just issued a working group last call for the chronos document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "this was the working group last call it was needed to have been issued a little bit earlier to have a conversation for this this meeting but that last call has been issued i'd really like to remind working group members that when we issue a working group last call it it's much more helpful if people can review and comment on the mailing list about the document even if the comment is i think this is ready to be published because we need to show consensus within the working group this is a pretty small working group it always has been a small working group so we need to get that those comments on the mailing list in a timely manner uh and then we have two things that are waiting on shepard write-ups um the update registries there was an update done earlier this earlier this week so we agreed that at the last virtual owner and we agreed that the update registries was had passed working group last call and it was ready to pass on to the iesg and dieter did a review of it and he asked for a few changes and then the question came up about whether the document should be informational standards track the document that it is updating is a standards track document so we have decided to switch it from informational to standards track and we're going to do a very short working group last call on that specific issue before we move it on to the iesg are there any questions or comments on that particular document and that plan of action nope okay uh the next document that we have sitting in our shepard write-up status is the ptp enterprise profile we have gotten"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "approval from the ieee to share the underlying specification for that for the purposes of the review of this document we also have um updated text the there there is going to be a terminology issue with this document as we pass it through the ietf because it's based on the 1588 specification 1588 specification uses a language that is will probably be problematic in the review 1588 is based on the concept of master clocks and slave clocks 1588 has an active par that is making progress that will address that issue and so for the purposes of forwarding this document we will be referencing that work um and then um and noting that because of the ietf document reference is is a representation or a profile of the 1588 specification we will be using the language that's in the 1588 specific specification with the understanding that 1588 is updating that language because the the core specification is under their their change control and our document is a profile of that document so with those two issues resolved we will be progressing that so that is any questions on that document okay uh can you oh no you can go ahead and come just stand up hi this is dennis riley from equinix um since i um also am on the 1588 committee and know a bit about that um alternative terminology draft going forward do i understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "correctly that the the current text still references the old language and we're basically as part of the right write up going to say once the alternative terminology amendment gets approved um we'll just change it we're not committing to go back and and update the document what we're saying is that uh we're using the the language that exists in the document that is currently published we understand that that language is being updated and we advise people that are implementing this to refer to the work of the 1588 to see what the updated language would be okay but the text of the draft won't we don't anticipate changing that well i my hope is is that this is going to be published before before that before that par is completed okay so i mean we could hold it up but i've i mean this document has been held up for a long time for for administrative and i mean not not for this issue it's been held up for a long time just because we haven't gotten our act together and moved it on okay um um i'm just asking so i understand um what the implications are going forward thank you very much right that's that's the plan right now the the thing is is that depending on how fast the 1588 stuff gets through and how fast this document gets through if if if the timing works out right now the timing looks like this will be done before that will be done so that's the plan right now if this gets delayed and if the 1588 work picks up speed and moves right on through the process then we can update this document and and it is it's even possible to update this document you know we can update it as at a later rfc but you know we would need somebody to do the work so i'm not committing to do that work yet"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "all right any additional questions on the enterprise profile work um so with that um moving back to the agenda then the next topic is the ntp v5 use cases and requirements document um james i know you're online did you want to say anything about that document uh yeah i don't actually have a huge amount to say other than i've published a zero zero for the working group and really the only change that's been included in it is uh some editorial uh changes and mints that paul gear had submitted i think in terms of uh what i plan on doing now is that i've got about a half dozen uh issues and things i think need to go in uh into it such as making references to other documents and clearing up some bits and pieces um it would be good if the working group could have a review out and pick it to bits again and then i think in the following interim meetings we'll i'll have further updates and if there's any any normative language that's particularly sticking we can get consensus calls from those meetings okay thank you james are there any uh questions or comments on the ntp v5 use cases and requirements document this title speaking uh i have a question there's this security requirements document from the tick tock working group and um i just wonder if did you consider the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "sweat model which is described in the in this document when you formulated your section five of your document document uh i did i haven't looked at it yet i wasn't aware of it could you send me a link or something and i can include it yes that's rc 7384 yeah that was the requirements document that was done uh prior to the development of nts and so that would be a good one to take a look at any other questions or comments on on the use cases and requirements document okay we have already covered the registry update draft rich you don't have anything else on that right we've covered everything we need on that yep um so then we have a list of items where we haven't had any updates yet the first one is rough time we had optimistically thought we would do a hackathon effort on rough time at this ietf but that didn't get pulled together in time we've had no real updates to the document does anybody have anything i'm not even is any are any oops um the if there's no i don't believe are there any comments or questions on rough time i do think we're interested in getting some implementation experiments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "experience on that we have a little bit of time to plan for potential hackathon effort in conjunction with the ietf 115 and so we'll take a look for that the next topic that we've had no updates on is ntp v5 i believe in last chatting with marislav the thought was that once we had adopted the use case and requirements document we could consider adopting his draft for ntp v5 marislav do you have any comments on that document or your plans for that uh yeah i think there was some discussion on the mailing list about meeting those requirements and since they don't seem to have changed significantly maybe we can look at it again i think most people seem to agree that the draft would meet those requirements but there are some issues which i already forgot that would need to be explained what is exactly meant and if this works okay uh james go ahead i think i did some analysis based off of what doug had provided and i think there was only three two or three things that were outstanding where the requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "didn't line up with uh the draft your draft but i think that was against the previous version so maybe it would be an idea to just go through and recheck it revalidate that and we can we can talk about that on the list okay um miroslav do you think it's worth doing the call for adoption now or would you rather wait a little longer i'm not sure what do you think it's best um i think it probably go ahead and i think we should go ahead and do the call for adoption i mean we've had it sitting there for a while i'm sort of glancing at the id to see if he's giving me a different indication no okay something from here oh no no no no we don't need anything i think we were just i mean this is ntp v5 so it i don't see that we need i think we should go ahead and get it in there i think people i think if they have the right they use the requirements document side by side with the actual protocol specification then they'll be able to do a better analysis of how the requirements are translating into reality so go ahead james so i've dug up uh my old spreadsheet and there is five things that are outstanding two are uh unknowns ossification and the three that were not yet met were uh minimizing abuse capability no notifications and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "uh connection reestablishment with that i don't think these are insurmountable as do the call for adoption um and we could we can work out these later um and use consensus calls to get them over the line okay i think we'll go ahead and proceed with the call for adoption of miroslav's document for ntp v5 and that'll give us something concrete to work towards um the ntp over ptp document uh is has been around for a little while miroslav do you want to comment on what the next steps for that are i think this one could go to the call for adoption and there will um be somewhat needed uh recently i saw some issues that could be related to the sequence id in the ptp packet and the current draft says it should be always zero but that might be an issue with some specific drivers so that would need to be addressed i think okay i think to get uh better eyes on this we should probably go ahead and do the call for adoption on this one as well is there anybody who disagrees with that okay uh so the last uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "work with no updates is nts for ptp um the status of that work is we had two different uh proposals on the table and those the uh primary advocates of each of those two proposals were going to get together and see if they could merge those into a single approach that has not been done yet and um so i think we're we're kind of waiting on seeing how the primary advocates for that work end up falling how that ends up falling out in the meantime one of the authors is finishing up a graduate degree so this could take a little bit of time um is there there's i don't see any of the primary authors online is is there anybody here who can speak to the status of that effort no okay so that brings us to the end of our agenda so do we have any other updates any out any other business that we wish to bring up go ahead marislav yeah i would like to ask and this might be a bit controversial for ntp v5 if if it would make sense to support the new time scale local time i've seen some users using modified ntp and instead of utc they use local time and this greatly simplifies the client's logic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "in some small embedded computers and i was wondering if this is something that should be supported in ntp 5 or not yes some ideas anybody want to touch that one uh go ahead james uh i would say let's take this one to the list it would be good to understand more about the russian okay uh dennis so i think it's definitely something that um we should talk about it's it's worth discussion discussing i think we need to understand all the different use cases that might be involved um i can certainly understand for instance wanting to run a bunch of clocks off mtv ntp and have those clocks show the local time but there's more than one way to do that um and i want to elaborate right now but um it's definitely worth discussing in the context of ntbb5 things like do we never do we ever want to transmit the time on the wire in a different time scale or is it sufficient to just include some fields that tell end devices what the local time is um there are a lot of things we can do it's worth discussing i guess that's it yeah um i saw somebody pop into the queue and then back out is there anybody else that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "wanted to comment on this topic oh okay so miroslav if you could start an email thread on the ntp mailing list with the subject line that clearly caught people's attention that this is what we were talking about you know something like alternative time scale for ntp um then we could have the discussion there is that okay okay thanks all right any other business okay so to uh wrap up we do plan as i mentioned earlier we plan to try to do a virtual interim once a month moving forward i think we need to look towards a rough time hackathon effort in november um and based on how the next few months worth of of um virtual meetings go we will decide whether or not to request agenda time for ietf 115 or not i think one of the keys is that this agenda time is pretty valuable and so i know that i personally feel really guilty about having a 30-minute meeting in a two-hour time slot here so um any other business with that everybody have a lovely day thank you oh wait hold on a second i don't know that we have the right people in the room to answer the question is do people want to meet at 115 and i guess the ques my concern is there's a number of regular participants who are not here so i'd rather ask that question i feel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "like we we didn't tee up enough conversations to attack attract the people that normally participate uh and then the other thing that that happened was we scheduled i didn't even think of the conflict but we are exactly conflicting with the ieee 1588 plenary which happens once a month at 10 a.m on wednesdays and um so and a couple of some of our virtual participants are also there so um if i paid more attention to the it's only like once a month it just so happens you know what's the chances um so that that was a a schedule conflict that was unfortunate um so with that are the is there any other business and we as as i said we'll decide about 115 in a couple months once once we see if we're getting a fair amount of work towards some progress on these drafts thank you everybody and have a good day oh um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "20 versus 24-bit actual like code inconsistency might um weird uh just uh okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:22",
    "text": "yes here uh i've had two meetings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "you know and february the workshops right so that's the thing that i'm not sure we did workshops oh yeah right so well so we're not um and so it wasn't it wasn't a big deal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:07",
    "text": "oh monday and friday uh um i'm just curious"
  }
]
