[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:23",
    "text": "hi everybody this is the IVR meeting and this is our starting time so everybody can find a seat and settle down and bring your conversation to an end and so on while you\u0027re doing that if somebody would be willing to volunteer to take notes and somebody else would be willing to volunteer to keep an eye on the jabber room I would really appreciate it especially because as you can see there is only one chair sitting up here and not two so I definitely won\u0027t be sharing the meeting and taking notes at the same time so anyone who can take some notes gee thank you very much and thank you very much for everything else that you\u0027ve done to make this meeting happen by the way I would like to point out that without Gia\u0027s work we probably wouldn\u0027t have an agenda this time thank you okay if somebody would also keep an eye on the jabber room that would be excellent I\u0027m not going to hold the meeting up all we wait though so this is IDR which one stood for an idumaean routing and now stands for anything you can stuff into port 179 so so let\u0027s talk about that stuff let the record show that AC is in the jabber room Thank You AC which means he gets to jump the line if he\u0027s uh if he\u0027s carrying questions from the jabber room we have a new note well it\u0027s different from the one at the last meeting so you may think you know what it says but you may actually not it\u0027s not my job to explain it to you it\u0027s your lawyers job or it\u0027s your job to read it to yourself but if you want something to explain it to you and tell you what it means talk to your lair but do read it it matters so I several orders of business for the chairs this time first of all just to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "repeat for those who are still filtering in sue will not be here at this time she was expecting to but had a last-minute illness hope she gets well soon and I\u0027m sure many of you would also like to send her a you know a get well soon hope hopefully she\u0027ll be back online in the near future so this slide comes to us from the MPLS chairs who much like many of you who have have authored documents in IDR may have encountered the fact that the security Directorate likes us to have real security sections one of the things they want to know about is Transport Security and they get extremely testy about the fact that md5 is unhip deprecated and so they say insecure and you know unfit for use by self-respecting people and this makes it difficult to advance advance drafts tends to make extra work everything for us and for them actually because takes two to tango hard to argue so the the MPLS folks have to deal with this also as do several other groups and so from their perspective their issue is LDPE uses md5 as its transport security low as written authentication and as I said md5 is unhip they\u0027re looking at TCP a oh and it says a yet to be decided cryptographic mechanism I don\u0027t know what that means either but I\u0027m going to go find out on Thursday what it means and they would like to coordinate with us as well as a large handful of other working groups so if you have opinions about this thoughts would like to provide feedback on how the ietf moves forward and doesn\u0027t spend a lot of time churning every single time we have to advance a draft I encourage you to go to the MPLS meeting on Thursday and to discuss it alvaro hi Albert on R\u0026D so yes it\u0027s true we get a lot of pushback from security guys because in many cases what we write is this extension to VB doesn\u0027t change the security considerations so 42 7 1 and that is true many times it is not true other times security obviously wants everything completely protected I think there are other operational realities that we have to deal with and it is some operational reality is not everyone runs authenticated in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "networks and that maybe we\u0027ve 75 for other things not necessarily authentication of BGP sessions but you know to make sure that the guys didn\u0027t fat-finger their configuration for example so we have been talking to the security these for a while in fact back in Singapore we had a meeting with them and with the routing area chairs to start talking about this and I would we agreed on is to start some kind of effort to better communicate with them you know what are the circumstances of the issues that we see because I personally think that it\u0027s not just a matter of documenting new mechanisms I mean we can specify anything we want TCP md5 or Nazi TCP AO has been specified for many years and then the RFC it actually says well maybe we should use that even though it didn\u0027t make it mandatory but it\u0027s a matter of implementation and deployment of the things so we agreed with them and Deborah Bremer the other ID is leading this effort is we agreed to document scenarios and I\u0027m gonna call them use cases for security considerations and routing so that when we say things like well it\u0027s senticles because i\u0027m running inside a single domain what does that mean I mean we maybe understand what we think we understand what that means but one of the assumptions that we\u0027re meaning there so that they can be they can feel better about saying oh okay it\u0027s okay if you didn\u0027t add some extra encryption it\u0027s your program we hope and this is sort of a stretch goal that we might come up with some templates that we can say oh look at that here\u0027s an IG P or here\u0027s beach B copy that template and put it in the security considerations so that the security area knows what this is this happens periodically because we are do we change a DS so the next CD is gonna come and ask us the same questions and so we decided that it would be a good chance to document some of these things this all doesn\u0027t mean that we shouldn\u0027t do new work or that we should never worry about security again and much less that we shouldn\u0027t at least mention security considerations is there something that could happen because you put some extra bits in the packet well think bad things could happen if we put extra bits in someone changes up so maybe we write that down and say well yes but I\u0027m running inside my single domain so it\u0027s okay so yes please go to the ampulla session if you really care about this please talk to Deborah if you have more thoughts or ideas or want to participate in the fighting guidelines use cases whatever we\u0027re going to call them this may end up in a document it will most probably end up in a wiki somewhere where we can all go and say here\u0027s the considerations and put them there and add then specifics for your block clarification question yes so as far as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:24",
    "text": "I understand which I don\u0027t know a whole lot more than what\u0027s written on this slide at MPLS they\u0027re going to be talking about this draft and you know stuff closely surrounding this draft what you\u0027re talking about now is a separate additional effort this draft relates to it you know it but this is so we can go to MPLS and talk about this we can find Deborah and talk to her approach okay yes the other place that was she thinking I mean you\u0027re not her but of having like some kind of a set time cuz there\u0027s probably more than one person who maybe would like to talk to her about it I am NOT that were and so I don\u0027t know the answer to that either yes what I do know is that I think Stewart he\u0027s um cheering another meeting or something right okay so Stewart is one of the authors with this draft and I think he asked for time and sach sag is a security area sad well whatever sagged means something about security area or means eating spinach I believe okay so they\u0027re gonna talk about there as well to get some guidance and that TBD cryptographic mechanism because apparently the TCPA Oh RFC doesn\u0027t actually mandate what the crypto should be so you know they\u0027re going there to get some guidance on on what should we put there I mean do we put sha whatever or something else to get guidance evidence there now I think again this is these are good things I think that the implementation and deployment realities are different than us just producing security documents and then getting all the cryptography in there in place okay thanks Jeff as in ignorance of the mesh nations of our ABS I had done a presentation that I EPG this Sunday specifically on this topic for anybody who is interested in seeing the slides you can see those at IET G org would you mind sending a URL to the list yes thank you wait yes that means you would mind okay so next topic I as people who are have been watching the list will have noticed of course as part of meeting prep I was doing some quick catch-up and this led me to want to say a few things because you know apparently we always say things about code white Alec patience these days and what I want to say this time is that we\u0027re using FCFS more which is great and early allocation which is great kind of the the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:26",
    "text": "thing is to start to think about where where we introduce bottlenecks into those processes and and how we could avoid it and there are two specific things I noticed one is if you request an out of sequence code point FCFS then you get punted onto the exception path basically I Anna says chairs do you uh you okay with this so then you get funneled through two chairs who sometimes respond quickly and sometimes don\u0027t and the second thing is that we have this lovely RFC 8126 guidelines for writing an eye on a consideration section and I\u0027m sure that everybody here has read all 46 pages of it but and and and that you review it every time you write a new draft to make sure that your IANA considerations section is good but just in case you have not read all 46 pages section 1.3 has a checklist which is about a page long and if you go and review that checklist before you ask for your code point allocation there\u0027s a much greater chance that you won\u0027t be asked to clarify what it is that you\u0027re actually asking for oftentimes authors think they have asked for something that\u0027s clear and it usually is clear if you\u0027re a subject matter expert and have carefully read the entire draft but it\u0027s not at all clear if you\u0027re not all of those things and guess what Diana people don\u0027t actually want to read your draft in detail to understand what it is you\u0027re asking for that\u0027s why there\u0027s a separate section so the these are the two not so much requests from the chairs but suggestions from the chairs to make things move smoothly which is have a clear and a consideration section it\u0027s not that painful and you know on the FCFS stuff sorry to back up a slide I think the main reason why we get these out of sequence requests is that people have done you know a little what I\u0027m sure they believe is benign code point squatting and mostly for FCFS registries you know once you\u0027re ready to actually do your implementation just request the code point already so that\u0027s it for those and related to that we have one early pending early allocation request that I know of right now which is this one and it does need an update and then we should move it right along so I don\u0027t think that will take too long assuming the the authors are responsive on that one yeah so this is the sort of document status section and I don\u0027t necessarily claim that I have caught everything so this is a good time to pay attention or go back and review the slides later if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:26",
    "text": "you have a draft of the year or wondering John why haven\u0027t you acted on my draft because I\u0027ve been waiting for a long time you might go and see if the name of your draft is on here and if not ping me either on the list or you know cast or in the hallway or whatever makes you most comfortable so we have several working group last calls pending we\u0027ve got the the segment routing X dough for scheduled to end in two days so far it looks well supported there was some discussion on the list about semantic validation of tlvs I am not sure if that\u0027s you know fully concluded or not but right now if I had to make the call I would say there\u0027s consensus to advance it but I would also go back and check that semantic validation discussion more in more detail to make sure that has closed in a satisfactory way there\u0027s a request for te PM bgp it\u0027s been asked for I\u0027ll start at tomorrow and then there was a last call for extended messages a few months ago and that had a bazillion messages on it and the last call was inconclusive Shelby say there was yeah I\u0027m not gonna comment more except to say that we\u0027ll try to figure out how to unbreak that log jam okay and then prefix said we I sent something him onto the list on this too so we we had a last call on that and it made it most of the way through the is G and then it came back to us with some comments to fix AC did the fixes and it got sent back out there it was a big change which was to take out the v6 said and everybody I think knew about that cuz that was flagged as being like you know here this is the big change where there were some editorial changes which I you know when I read through them I was like okay oh that\u0027s fine that\u0027s just an improvement it\u0027s not a normative change but there was one you know small normative change yet it did stand out of the discussion on the list which is great but I didn\u0027t see that you know any that there was like actually a thing to the list that said hey by the way you know based on the conversation I made this change so I\u0027ve sent a thing to the list pointing this out and I\u0027m pointing it out here also which is that the version 16 text had an either-or option for what to do if you get multiple prefixes with the same label index the new version takes away the either/or and it just says do it one way speaking personally I like do it one way better than you know a menu of options so I\u0027m happy with that but I just wanted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "to make sure that you know everybody knows about this you\u0027ve been warned in particular if you have an implementation that does the one or the other version and you will feel upset to have that text jerked out from under you you\u0027d better speak up soon because otherwise we will apply the silent gives consent rule and move forward okay there\u0027s a whole bunch of stuff where we concluded a working group last call and it\u0027s waiting for something mostly is waiting for a document Shepard to finish their work on one the optimal route reflection document the document Shepard is done and sent a bunch of questions and comments to the authors and I never got an answer to that so hey authors that\u0027s it for me so next is Shriram oh yeah you\u0027ve got your version there hello good afternoon I\u0027m freedom and this is about now clicks solution jointly authored with the draft is caught there together with one common law employee Brian Dixon KO and Andrzej Sapkowski so so we recently submitted uploaded a o8 draft and this slight points out what the differences are compared to the oh seven version the previous version the new draft primarily focuses on the RLP which stands for route leak protection solution which is and this our LP solution is an inter AAS multi-hop solution as opposed to another draft that that is also currently progressing through the IDR that is the IDR BGP open policy draft and that draft covers the intra AS or locally as solution so what do you do within na s locally to prevent route leaks and the draft that I am talking about focuses on what do you do when it out Lee goes across a SS how do the SS coordinate to detect and and then stop the doubt leak or block it what we have done the big change we have made in this draft in this new revision is first thing to just focus on the our LP solution in the main body of the draft a second thing there were and there are a number of useful other sections those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:27",
    "text": "those sections have been moved into the appendices and the reason for that is those those related relate to things which are not required to describe the solution so first forth so they contain things like related prior work review design resist rationale and discussion so over the last two or three years that this draft has been active in this group there have been many questions in a lot of interesting discussion so that section captures the those aspects the questions as well as the design rationale the discussions in this working group as also in the group working group prior to this there is a stop solution section in the appendices you can take a look at that in try a solution you could there was good discussion about that using community on the turnout list and we had that historically in the draft so we\u0027re still keeping it this uses community and the Nano discussion was was very informative very helpful so we captured the essence of that into into this section here the intra a SS leak prevention with community so just to recall like what what is the problem we are addressing here is P in this picture is P 1 or a s 1 sends a prefix route to the customer the customer leaks it to the other transit ISP it has so customer is multihomed and it leaks it to the second transit is B the second transit ISP does it doesn\u0027t didn\u0027t catch it doesn\u0027t catch that it\u0027s a leak and it propagates it to its peers and other neighbors providers customers so what can be done here so that is P one can put in some indication and even if the customer is clueless about route leaks and they need out the ik solution that\u0027s available in try a s or or what have you what can I be one put in the update so that is P two can catch that it is a route leak before we go to the solution a real-world incident there are many which which happen once every few months or so so in this incident Google appears with Hathaway and shares a whole bunch of prefixes and Hathaway leaked 300 over 300 of them to its transit provider Airtel held in catch it and it the the leak propagated to level 3 orange and so on and as a result many Google users in Europe their traffic was data traffic was routed through Airtel and hathaway and it got dropped on the floor so this sort of thing happens of often so what could have Google done so Google Google and Airtel can coordinate if Attaway is not participating it or if they are clueless about it they can use this RLP of field encoding in the sending router so the sending "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "router uses a two bit field and this field can be carried in a transitive per hop attribute in BGP or in the flags field in BGP SEC when we have BGP psyche of a labelled down the road the RLP field value can be zero zero default value which means that nothing specified which in turn means that the route can be propagated to a customer transient trans transit provider or lateral peer no restrictions 0 1 means that the sender is saying that please don\u0027t I mean don\u0027t send it to a transit provider I mean subsequently so I send it to a customer or appear at this point but subsequently it should not propagate to a transit provider or appear so if it comes to you from one of your customers or one of your peers and it has the zero one indication then you regard it as a route leak so the solution just to provide some more insight into it it works this way it\u0027s been a while so I\u0027m just doing a quick review of this although you have heard this before the a s1 is propagating prefix P it puts in our LP a s11 which means that mas 1 and I put our LP indication to one it sends it since it to a s2 and also to a s4 and they propagate it to a s 3 s 3 is a transit provider of a s 2 so s 2 is leaking that the route and a s 3 now has two choices one of them is clean the our LP bit is set to ones and it is coming from a transit provider so s 3 is receiving from a s 4 and both are LP fields are set to 1 which means that yes it can continue to propagate towards customer that\u0027s fine so a we can can accept that but but the other update from es tu has na also has our LP set 1 2 set 2 1 from a s 1 so s 3 knows that it\u0027s a case coming from a customer and somebody another transit provider said that if it comes from your customer then be aware it could be a route leak so s 3 can distinguish between these two updates and it can discard the suspicious one which is from from the customer and accept the one from the transit provider a as for so it can prioritize and eliminate the route leak the our LP attribute is the r LP values are put in a optional transitive attribute so each a s that is participating can put this tuple a s number and the RL p value so so partial deployment in partial deployment it works fine so non-participating a SS will not put anything in here and it is transitive and the way I mean the effectiveness of it 99% of the the vertical axis is the route leaks that are not detected in terms of percentage and the horizontal axis is the three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "power three different scenarios current BGP BGP with the proposed RL P and P and a BGP SEC with the proposed RL P so basically the 99% that are accidental route leaks are are prevented right away if you if you do the proposed RL p and the if you if it is secured with bgp SEC then also the malicious attacks are prevented so this applies in general to even BGP SEC the building blocks so in at the bottom you start off with out-of-band communication which tells you what you appears about you what the relationship is with your peer the Reyes number interface i IP etcetera the BGP opened their BGP role capability negotiation that is done with the help of the other draft the BGP open policy draft that allows you to confirm the relationship at that point you can automatically set the peering relationship or for each peer and you can do it by prefix if you wish then on top of that we have the two components the intra is a prevention solution that is the IOT see same draft again IOT C is a internal only to customer attribute so that tells you that I mean that you need to look at the other draft for that and I\u0027m sure many of you are familiar with that the other component of the solution is the is what I have described the our LP solution which works across SAS boundaries so it\u0027s a multi hop intra AS solution and finally you can add security on top of it when bgp SEC is available we can insert the our LP values into the bgp SEC flags and that takes care of the security part of it so those are the building blocks and just to look at this final slide once again if you have partial deployment deployment and if you have major ISPs that are willing and ready to deploy it as soon as the technology is available and let\u0027s say that those major eyes is Ras 1 through es 5 in this example the prefix P propagates from a s5s customer corn and it goes across a peer-to-peer a s1 and if in s once customer corn pone it leaks and it goes into a s2 s customer phone or even it might turn around and come back to s1 on another customer interface in either case either a s1 or s2 are able to detect that it\u0027s a route leak and they can stop it so in the by doing that it is not propagating from across these ISPs so these are participating ISPs they essentially form a ring of security and leaks can happen if their customers are not yet upgraded leaks can happen locally within the customer phone but they won\u0027t propagate across when one is please customer corn into another so that is the advantage of early adoption I mean benefit with early adoption and it encourages deployment thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:29",
    "text": "appreciate some questions or comments alexander\u0027s remove accurate ellipse first of all I\u0027m really glad to see that you\u0027re finally linked you draft to open policy it\u0027s good news but there is another draft so that you haven\u0027t mentioned and in this draft there is different design of what you called our LP and while Hugh requires required that it should be pairs of videos there is only one value and comparing the properties of these attributes the pair\u0027s a set of a set of pairs that does not bring anything then complexity second are you talking about the flag the single that you use yes I was thinking about a or TC the second thing is that in your draft the side effects of this technology are not mentioned and they are important to mention sorry what\u0027s not because both geodesy and ROP are are given a hints about joy about relations between autonomous systems and for some ice bees it will make a great a concern a year ago I invited you privately for a discussion to merge these drafts and to create one draft which will be will be some kind of joint solution and today I will try to do it publicly so I invite you one more time to merge these ideas to create single draft and to ship it quickly because the problem is really very important thank you thank you for the comment so let me address the question about the concern about ISP is disclosing there s relationships so that was that\u0027s been so the this draft has been in the working group in Gro first and then in in IDR for probably the last three years now at least since 2015 or so and we had a number of discussions about the disclosing s relationships so that question and the discussion in the working group is very well captured in the discussion the appendices that I mentioned so I would like to request you and everyone else who is interested to take a look at that the second question about merging the truth Rudolph\u0027s graphs yes we welcome that and we are looking so so the so draft you mentioned that is relatively new this has been there for three years the draft you mentioned is relatively new so we had very very much welcome to and we have discussed it which not that I haven\u0027t tried to tell users to stop arguing about that who was the first assistant up I\u0027m trying to tell you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "let\u0027s do to do a proper solution that\u0027s all I am not allowed to mention a timeline I already two drafts no it\u0027s okay my point is this we are very much willing to work and then the chairs can guide us out so I think I heard Alex say that he wants to work with you and I think you just said that you want to work with him so I am so happy kumbaya please do it right so all right yet so nothing to be nervous about we can do it maybe you can do it this week because face-to-face time is very valuable and here we all are and I would like to agree with Alex\u0027s comment that you know this seems like important work and if it\u0027s important work let\u0027s actually get it to a stage where actually that sort of preempted a question I was going to ask which is at what point do we sort of say this is ready let\u0027s start pushing people to implement and deploy so the main difference is that the they have we have but hop our LP values so and and the and the other draft talks about a single flag value so that\u0027s the key difference otherwise the basic idea is the same so so we just need to talk about that and how which of those make sense and I would like to ask the the respective authors to you know try to have this discussion concluded before the next meeting because can I just see an informal show of hands of first of all how many people think they understand this whether you\u0027ve read the draft or not I mean there\u0027s detailed slides that you\u0027ve just been presented so you know a reasonable number of people think they understand what what we\u0027re talking about how many people think that this is something that they would consider either implementing in their implementation or deploying in their network so you know again that\u0027s that\u0027s in enough hands to say that maybe we have enough for us to actually do this thing so so yeah please put a bow on it and this is the kind of thing that we really can\u0027t proceed forward you know on a pre standard basis a Sealand of Cisco Systems I think what we will implement the solution that gets the traction I mean there\u0027s there there\u0027s there looks like there are really three ways of doing this you know proposals and this is the most mature one I\u0027ll based on timelines and so right and this is why I\u0027m asking the authors to you know sort of finish up and put a bow on it okay yeah Jared the mics four feet from you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:31",
    "text": "Jared Moss from Akamai I was just asking a see if he was interested in also addressing the implementations that they have that by default flood all the learned routes immediately out all the sessions as well because that would also help mitigate this issue which is a very common configuration thing and it\u0027s been challenging for me as a customer of some of my equipment vendors in this perhaps you can publish an RFC on that subject yes yes there may even be some documentation for this and I may have a bot that\u0027s been watching this for more than ten years documenting it every 15 winds point taken but I don\u0027t want to take up more discussion time on that okay I want but I\u0027ll say I\u0027ll just say a sealant of the path to backward compatibility there will be probably an easier way to do this I don\u0027t know if it\u0027ll be the default default okay yeah anybody who wants to beat AC up do it outside because I think that you know we have to pay a cleaning fee on the carpet any further questions or comments thank you thank you please please don\u0027t take the clicker away with you oh thanks hi everyone this is guard Avril from Lincoln we\u0027re presenting SR v6 BTW pls extensions we added quite a few authors have shown interest we emerged with one other document from Huawei so just a point of order and not point of water I guess chair is privileged whatever um just yeah since you were so kindly kindly mentioned your number of authors please fix it yeah so they\u0027re due documents which i think is premised to understanding what the work is here one is a network programming I highly encourage to read it you can\u0027t hear me okay and also there\u0027s a dependent document service training document what is update in this we presented 0-0 version in IETF 100 and the LS EPE sits have been added for the SR v6 we also added the SR v6 NSAIDs which were removed from the prefix to document we added the reference to OSPF III and then updated RTL V is to match the ITP encoding z\u0027 also we in the original document we requested for function coded up points in this human but moved it out to the network programming document so that everything is in one central location and as I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:33",
    "text": "mentioned earlier we Amash with the document which was proposed by maksim who are we so the node attribute tlvs there are two tlvs which have been defined the capability dlv and the node attribute TLV it\u0027s very mostly it\u0027s very basic so I would encourage you to just read it it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty straightforward and I present it the same in the in 9100 as well notes it TLV we added the n-side originated from the BT protocol we added some function flags which have now been in cropped incorporated into the main set TLV earlier it was part of the separate TLV sub TLV and we have also added a sub TLB which is variable where we can extend this to add more subtil these like self-service function tlvs for the discovery of service functions for the link attribute we have added the link attribute the rename them to link attribute and link attribute LAN and added two more link attribute tlvs the pearson PR nodes and exit and the peer set and exit peer node and exit is similar to what is defined for SR MPLS in that document route segment routing epe we are defined in similar thing in the S FRS or v6 the it indicates the cross connect layer 3 for the specific bgp session and the again the function codes are defined in network programming documents peer set is similar to the peer the previous one and the only difference is in 1 in this particular case you are forwarding to the group of peer sets and again the function code point is in the main document and we have also changed the tlvs to match the IGBT Elvis we\u0027re seeking input from working group and any seditions comments are welcome questions if there are no questions comments then go on to your next one and if you think of anything you know he\u0027ll still be up front you remind me every time so I\u0027ll do it next time bgp extensions for SL v6 VPN we as I said the few other they\u0027re quite a few providers which are interested again for this we we recommend to read two separate documents the SR v6 network programming again it\u0027s a comprehensive document which talks about all the network programming ends functions which we have defined and the segment auditing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:33",
    "text": "header which is the basis for this whole work and the prefix word document which AC was authoring what do you want to do again we want to enable the ipv6 data plane segment routing and we want to provide the VPN or global services on top of it we the goal of this whole document was to provide the or reduce the overall migration brownfield migration deployments we have presented the first cut of this document which is l3 VPN over SRV 6ni ATF 98 Chicago how are we doing it we\u0027re proposing a BGP extension we extending a prefix it attribute in the base prefix it document and we calling it as a v6 TLV and that has it looks like this so it has a CID type and a CID value associated with the VPN services which you would want to signal using bgp the VPN state encoding in this particular case i\u0027m specifically focusing on evpn and global in EVP in case the type would be to the type one will be corresponding to l3 VPN label which we the mpls and the type two will be corresponding to the EVP and label in other words type 1 is that end DX functions or DT functions which is equivalent to the l3 services and type 2 will be equivalent to the l2 services which is provided by evpn RFC again just a reminder the details are in that network programming document so how does the encoding looks like this is again basis of SR v6 so we have a locator a function and argument the locator is how do you write route to that particular IP address the function would be the VPN labels or in this particular case it could be the l2 VPN or a VPN function equivalent argument argument is optional in case of ESR filtering we pass the argument to arm so it\u0027s again the detailed in the document very well this is just an example there is no fixed boundaries of any of these it can change based on the vendor implementation the base baseline procedures which were defined in 474 32 has not been changed we have just extended to attach this attribute for the cases where there is an MPLS label for the evpn we have attached and sr we succeed to associate with it and we also believe that it helps in the migration for the brownfield deployments which is most of them out there example of the EVP and l3 encoding so the top one shows the encoding which is there in the 7432 with the label as MPLS l3 VPN level with the the new case you will have a BGP route "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "by v with the implicit null and you will attach the SR v6 VPNs to TL v will which will associate type 1 which was which I was showing earlier in the slide and these are l3 functions which could be d t6 DT for DX X or DX 4 we also want to achieve a BGP free core so we are associating the v p-- information for the global FES as well and for the L three cases and we just associate the SR v6 VPN TLV to that to achieve the BGP free code and attach that to the base ipv4 ipv6 global and Lara and send it with the ipv6 next stop again seeking working group input and feedback and any comments are welcome I a Lisa Jesse Cisco few comments first this draft is about BGP enable l2 and l3 VPN services over SR v6 and by the way last time I checked there was a working group called BGP enabled services so the draft should be renamed and I think it should be presented there because majority of the interest is going to be over there to the point second and the giraffe introduces a new encapsulation and that new encapsulation has a ramification on IP VPN and a VPN RFC for this 7432 and 4364 and the giraffe gets into how to do their stuff without explaining what and why basically I\u0027m interested in knowing why we need a new encapsulation what are the benefit of this new encapsulation why it cannot be done with the existing vehicle an engineer encapsulation and to name a few then the next comment it is a basically question is what if you know what about ipv4 are you going to be using the xn and Jennifer to respond or do you want to respond sure my only response Ali is that the what and why we are doing in motivation behind it is in the architecture documents for Sr and also in the network programming documents oh it\u0027s detailed pretty well over there and if there\u0027s still something which we want to update further this it doesn\u0027t can you summarize it in two sentences why and what I mean because I didn\u0027t catch that the why and what is you we want to integrate the VPN services with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "the te services together well you can do that with sending the sending a VPN an IP VPN perfectly over SRB six why do we have to mush the encapsulation together I mean do we get performance improvement do we get better you know improvement in the encapsulation if that these are the case we need to have discussion sir okay so then should I continue I don\u0027t know should I finally find time for you in the agenda how many many points do you have I think tell you what why don\u0027t you go to the back of the line let the two people behind you make their points but they may have one one point each and then you\u0027ll still have some time to make your recipe of points yes definitely took skill from a range of speaking yes best working up chair so yes you absolutely need to present it in best unfortunately this week we don\u0027t have any more slots available so you would need to present it in Montreuil era okay would you be able to do a short ad for it during your chair slides just you know a one-liner we are really really fool okay fine maybe at the end of a session if we have more time working rather than nokia yes I have some few comments too and some of them shared with Ali so the first one is absolutely this has to be presented in best and we already made a comment in IETF 98 and you know a few IDF\u0027s later here we are again that\u0027s the first one the second one is a question do you or do you not mandate the advertisement of this said TLV or a VPN city LV do not mandate it it depends on the originator itself whether it\u0027s the originators supports SR v6 function then it will attach it if it does not then it\u0027s still a valid update so what you\u0027re saying is I can reuse the existing label fields I said if so the way with the originator router can be MPLS NSR v6 enabled right so in that case it will use the label field and attach that tribute what you asked was do we mandate that no it\u0027s an optional transitive a tree we don\u0027t but I also mean that you want to use a survey 6 which is a 6 then yes the router has to attach now service its attribute which will create which will have that according to to the VPN services and that is for all the routes all day if you can route except for route type 4 right now in reading the program in draft it actually talks about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "encoding the ESI label in the external community in the existing type 1 extended community which is by the way a great a great great idea and this is where I would suggest however this seems to be inconsistent with what you have in this draft we are actually using the argument field to do that correct and the programming draft says that you should signal that in an extended community I\u0027ll double-check with I don\u0027t fix it there is an austere McCleary bad for all there all the VPN labels tomorrow my my final feedback would be and something that I already discussed is if you make this locator sorry know the locator the function and the argument you limit the length to three bytes each you don\u0027t really need to have a new TLV you don\u0027t need to create this new attribute and you can actually make the you know the a VPN solution compatible with SR v6 and I forgot the last one is in VPN we use the BGP encapsulation attribute or bgp encapsulation extended community to signal there from the egress p the the tunnel that we want to use and also to to let the English P know if we want to use a 20 or a 24 bit VPN label identifier now here you are doing something completely different you\u0027re saying just by the fact that I I am including this new TLV I I want to signal to the English P that it needs to use a service X so my question is why and why Cannot you use the accident and the encapsulation attribute or X in the community implicitly signaling the SR v6 is itself saying that you want to use based on the local policy on ingress B tells you that whether you want to use s our v6 encapsulation or the VX LAN right so whether you want to use s our v6 encapsulation so no well you need to receive that piece of information in the in the router to know whether you need you your VPN identifier is 20 or 24 bits right so this is what now we do it today now you you\u0027re saying no we don\u0027t need that and we are defining and yet another way to signal the English P what label it has to use so my question is why don\u0027t you just signal the BGP encapsulation advocate or the extended community and you include there there the tunnel type hey folks just a agenda check we have just a few more minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:35",
    "text": "for discussion of this so please keep your comments shortened to the point I think that it\u0027s very clear now that you are going to be four this in a future bass and or discussing it on basses list so that is another opportunity for having you know more detailed discussion so a couple of my comments read cover by Jorge but he is saying that okay I asked for what and why and then describe to how and once we\u0027re convinced of what what and why you\u0027re doing these things with respect to the house or he is saying that why not you know use the existing field in the route because if we go with the attribute is gonna impact the BGP route packing why don\u0027t we go with the existing evpn method that doesn\u0027t have implication in the route packing and we use the field and we can use either 20 or 24 bit and it still you can go with the new encapsulation so the question is two things whether is no packing different if you are using a Parsi level or fire purp vrf label upper ESI it is in the attribute the instead of being a tribute right so how is that different with it the packing is as optimal as it is if it is the same actually then that\u0027s fine but the question is with respect to the how you know if you decide to go with this new encapsulation question is why not use the existing mechanism and convey the inform and they see it as part of the existing EVP and rot again this is contingent on the ossification why we need the encapsulation and there are implication I\u0027m going to be quick I have a few more but I\u0027m gonna skip those basically there are implications with the III which is not being mentioned in the giraffe there is a leaf indication bit which is not there what are we gonna take care of it and then finally I mean you go through the entire draft it has all the EVP and rules in there and the procedure for all of them is simple set the EVP and label to explicit now carry the seed in the attribute you can mention that in one paragraph so for all EVP and I\u0027ll do that and then you can you know reduce the Jeff into a couple of pages but again these are all after we decide that this is a reasonable way of doing Lee is a reasonable encapsulation okay yeah kala Patel I just have a meta comment idea working group is finalizing on a tunnel encapsulation attribute I believe that is carried for all the BGP Etta\u0027s families please let\u0027s not define any third mechanism if possible logical feedback thank you everybody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "all right thanks hi John kalyra I am a given from China Telecom here I what my experimental search some solution for the interest table chill in the you know our really our network the content considered the four parts first days the scenario that we encountered in our network and the requirement for a solution and we also search for the kind of solution compared to the connoisseurs and finally it is not very suitable for our requirement so we held proper or some BTW pls the extension to meet this requirement here is a general scenario in our winni our network we held a backbone network and hundreds of men and this TC IDC network the network are interconnected with each other why the pandava links and each man and IDC and many different IT peter man kindly we are deploying department to the STM on technology civilian this architecture we the SDN controller should know the overall topology during the tiffany domain so we needed to collect the topology from each each Tamiya and also the inter domain logic as well so the right part we have some simplified scenario at the you know we have two different IDP domain and may or may not want different ITB the protocol and million is the underlying network there may be deployment is a traffic engineer and traffic engineer or and in this scenario the Sdn controllers who collected the topology information from the different domain and why the current be given technology and also need to get the interest link information so of for this another way we are six some solution for the four committees requirement the first thing is we want to pre do the kind that ECB or the protocol unchangeable else possible and the second value we want to enhance the North Portico under the young architecture so and the 30 that we want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "to keep her department a simple and probably called we we have the hundreds of the ITP domain and the the lastly the solution so the suitable for various scenarios so we search and compare the current solution for these now and the requirement there are about 60 solution it can fulfil part of our requirement the first day is already know the debated protocol but it many folks on the ITB topologically amount of me and there is no interest Pilate information this the second is a sorry P so in this solution the SP archons he puts the interest links and note information but if we adopt this solution the Avs spr mustard on the PTR protocol so they must appear the pv neighbor with Rosalie fret of e the BGP will the SDN controller so I think the there are some deployment limitation the third is there are some reporter for avidians sr extension so you know easily 16 and after the introduce social otter int fixer identified her the elevate will transfer the key information for the interest apology but the solution in meaningful isis isis proto so it is for the underlying network master on the i as a protocol the the there are another tool to our see that ridiculous scenarios in reading the ISIS and OSPF or T there are some extension to transfer information about the interest links and nodes parties requirement the our underlying network to deploy and deprive that he he technology within each domain and you know you will be even with deployment the T technology and the citing recent are not included in the kind PDA universe\u0027 so I think there is no solution tool for to meet our scenario and requirement the the last is the facility IP network is the table is described as in order for the force in our department CCNA to IP but there is no solution for the interest table issue so this is kinda loose I think there are some various limit listen for to with our requirement so here are our proposed solution the first lead for the 90 she knows inland region until 99 his "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:42",
    "text": "analysis it healed acquired the hour under an underlined network at a node deployment the t technology so in this analysis which we just need to care to get the information about the originator of the interest prefix I will explain later for the region to to to tow the quality information this is here this here low we can get the information from a different protocol first realizes it is DC in same as the colonist autumn for the RFC 7-7 i-94 and the next row is for Oh LPB me to our web who we mystery so million this newly defined that here way we can carry different carry the similar information for the different IT protocol the the second proposal is the PPS extension and I resonated currently there are untold 2rc to describe of the the theory that carry the remotely infamous and the the motifs are as prit information lady in the IT people talk about the information and in who can even be reported by the kind be very spot also we want to be in a TC narrowly we want to develop our God who carries information so after we collected information so we we want to know how to build the interest ecology it also in the to to deepen us in our the first thing that he\u0027s not I mean at least now I think it is either very simple or very sweet of order because the PCs noon controller can order as an SP are infamous and also the Chilean at our the unity in the kind people tear away and it can also now the motives and the motives a our human society nearly proper the current draft for nineties in our there are some some steps to reach children information from with the from the key key information reported by the PGP has protocol here I just make the elicited graph and the procedure to Richard halal information you know what we want monkey de is the red links at the beginning in the different different commands so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:43",
    "text": "the steps at all reconstruction the interest of logic is illogical in the writer graph the first thing is PCV opt of logic is practically in the different domains this camp beef party interests link are normally not included because we will not run the ITV protocol in the inverse links so normally we will really super that the universe links on every SBR rotor you know at widget or eg Tamiya we market it in her interconnection within our underlying network and currently the reduced people routes it is the prefix of the inter interests links can be included in the eunuch and BGP Li P de Parys on air are and but the there is no information about the originator of these projects so we cannot anchor the prefix we under the different different HDR\u0027s so it cannot endure all the SDN controller cannot build the interest ecology within the current P de Parys information so with our newly defined BTS tearaway so the PCE can anchor the prefix to a correspond the SPR and at the end the PC can construct the interest Pilate when comparing the yield prefix and their anchors so this is a top-load is the contraction process process within that would different scenarios so we also summary some our solution benefit for our canoes and hound can fit many submit easy the general solution for the interest topology each here and it is T not depend on the proton source of profit of the prefix anticipated by kinda the pgps protocols and pcs knock on the hill the in herd approach interest apology automatically according to a procedure and determining is the prettiest and the originally originally information reported the buyer the newly defined theory okay a solanum Cisco Systems I\u0027ve read the draft to admit that so I saw you that there is redistributed route original Raider you know in the RFC seventy seven fifty to prefix prefixes have both no descriptors and prefix descriptors you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:46",
    "text": "know which is just the prefix in length for the prefix distributor maybe topology to I can\u0027t recall why wouldn\u0027t the route originator just be the the OSPF router ID or ISI assistant idea in the node descriptor I don\u0027t think you need that new identifier you fast currently in current a piggyback protocol as the same on sale on fatigue oh there you know terrific or you need her it would be the node descriptor because why would you put anybody other than the node descriptor I mean why would you put anybody but the originator in the node descriptor why wouldn\u0027t you put the originator in there I mean that\u0027s what it should be it\u0027s not gonna be the BGP speaker you don\u0027t you know it doesn\u0027t need to be I mean I mean the the BGP speaker doesn\u0027t put his own no descriptors in here he just happens to be the one of the BGP LS session to the controller you know so kindly and the peakers the PG pairs protocol speaker just told the information it it held so so it\u0027s a reporter the node and the link and predict the periphery is just you you need is the road rocky inhibitor so it Wow it\u0027s it\u0027s it doesn\u0027t it doesn\u0027t have to be the one it can be the one in his link state data it\u0027s the one he\u0027s getting usually usually if you have an implementation usually it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s an OSPF it\u0027s part of the OSPF routing domain and at least for for an AAS external Ellis I know must be up a little better than I sighs and uh and normally the a and not normally always for non for regular areas Deus Ex ternal LS A\u0027s are flooded throughout the routing domain and so the BGP speaker talking the controller to uniquely identify that prefix you just take it out of his out links de database and use the he\u0027d used the he\u0027d use the router idea of the or system ID other of the router that originated so you don\u0027t need an identify it we should take this offline it\u0027s kind of we found if it seemed to be in a circular we kind of circular discussion here yeah we have a break coming up right after this meeting so you guys could even talk about it in you know twenty minutes I just want to confirm what AC said this is not required you have it in for OSPF you have it in the node descriptor like AC mentioned and for ISS we have the source router ID which is for the same purpose so I think this is not required yes part is is necessary so that\u0027s a good one you know the newly proposed a caraway is similar with kinda sausage so she wrote her IT the other way you know buddy this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:49",
    "text": "I compared it here you know the the you know sort of solutions a sorry XD food Yoshida and he elevated to Treasuries key information but it is mainly for the ISIS protocol and they not cover and other protocols so we here we just okay with the through central account can Cara also narrows the different protocols in our eg domains and kindly and I know that the for BT better protocol rather the wrong the BG proposal non originator of these prefix but it did not support adipati that who the SDN controller so I can conduct or not now the orgy or origin originator of these previous so we cannot build the interest upload automatically okay and that\u0027s all we have time for now thank you okay so this is Jayden from Hawaii and then my presentation is about new BGP extended community for identifying the target node so we have causes from hobby and the Nokia so here\u0027s a motivation we know that p2p has been used for the distribution of various routing our policy information and in most cases such kind of for disputes to the whole network but in some other use cases the intended target node may be just the one or several particular between nodes in the network for example this in the BGP flows back policy distribution you can you may just want to distribute the policy to a particular node also several particular nodes and currently BGP does not have a mechanism to to do this to designating the talking node for this routing information because BGP was designed for the point multiple distribution in the beginning and currently we have a router target mechanism but that was used for the matching of waving routes to the brf\u0027s so it\u0027s not a general mechanism for this purpose so basically this draft proposed mechanism to control the distribution of BGP information to predict your nodes in the network here the propose the solution when the network he\u0027s using ipv4 address so we need a new PGP extend community to carry the tagging node IP address and and this is very straightforward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:49",
    "text": "currently we make it a transitive things you can use thinning community because we need to we\u0027re considering both entry as a inter and interest maybe in the future and this extinct community can be carried multiple commute this extinct community came carried in the update message to designate designated Italian node and diagnose and for ipv6 we need to define a new ipv6 address a cific it\u0027s the community to carry this tagging node and it\u0027s also transitive and more or more ipv6 no target communities can be carried in the Abbadon message so currently in the current version of the draft we just give the procedure for the intro es scenario the interest case will still in further study and we can have discussion about that basically for the intro es Dario and originator it needs to encode the tagging nodes IP v4 or ipv6 addresses into this newly defined in node huhgak extend immunity and send it to the update on the receivers receiving site for the non are our speakers it just need to check this new extinct community and to find whether it is the the target node but this local node is Italian or not and if it is the target node if the routing information carried in the update can be used by this node otherwise it just need to discard us an update message and on the road reflectors it is a in addition to checking this and local match you also need to redistribute is received updated a further to these clients and the details are specified in the draft so after we submit this draft we have already got some feedbacks comments and we would like to discuss them here the first one is do we need to have an ipv6 no target because in many cases is a control plane may still be ipv4 based but maybe we need to consider whether we should support the pure ipv6 Network which in which case both the data plane the controller app or ipv6 and another one is maybe we need to add some restriction to the target IP addresses for example we can suggest to only use the bgp router ID in this a target node and so for this one question is whether the bgp router ID can be used in the pure ipv6 networks maybe they said these are some separate discussion but when listing as here for the discussion another things maybe if we want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:49",
    "text": "support post ipv4 and ipv6 addresses we can restrict the rules to only use the host IP addresses on the routers ok the next question comments is whether it should be transitive or intransitive extinct immunity for the entry as case and me thinking maybe not festive is also ok and may be simpler because you don\u0027t need to do the filtering on the edge by you defining other an additional mechanism but that depends on whether we also you need to cover the interests scenario so here are the next steps so because this is the just as your version draft the most important thing is we need to identify whether this as a valley the problem to be solved and we need to cover both ipv4 and ipv6 and whether we need to care about interests and interests and after this we will fiskerton the polish this solution and together so any questions comments ELISA Jesse Cisco can you go back to that extended community ok the ipv6 is the target ipv6 not the originating ipv6 okay and are you sending this extended community with the raw target or in lieu of the raw Targa I think this is independent from the raw target because they are doing a different for different purpose right our targets were designed for the matching of reaching routes to the vrf on the PE notes and this is more generic magazine for it then how do you ensure that the the receivers were different types with that target address they\u0027re gonna just receive it you mean whether the receiver view makes this up with rocky or canopy a person in BGP because it is a push mechanism I\u0027m wondering that how do we ensure that this gets pushed to the specific target PE yeah yeah I think before this reaches the Tattaglia know that it should be keep advertising in the network yeah it\u0027s using the we can take it offline okay okay jeff has I have a few comments so your slide where you point out previous suggestions router ID does probably make sense in a intra AAS scenario partially because there\u0027s no guarantee that they give an address on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:50",
    "text": "the router you say use the collection of all addresses there\u0027s no guarantee that those might be unique especially if you\u0027re a VPN router so in the intra a/s case that works it doesn\u0027t work for the inter ASX snow so there\u0027s some points of discussion there your procedure suggests that you discard these for route reflectors if you\u0027re not if not about reflector confederations are also another case where you have to worry about that okay and that also complicates your procedure for inter AAS yes the biggest piece of feedback I would give is that your use case the the obvious use case is for things like flowspec for flowspec i don\u0027t think this is a good fit the problem that you\u0027re probably attempting to solve is you\u0027re trying to say address this to a set of routers where your numerating them what you\u0027re better off doing is snow trying to numerate the set of interfaces that want to receive a filter or a set of no routes for that use case you might want to you know consider the interface interface at draft that\u0027s currently active and see if that\u0027s a better fit for the scenario as well even if it isn\u0027t perhaps consider that you\u0027re trying to address a set of routers that a group ID makes more sense than addressing it to a specific router yes thank you I think the interface side draft is also another use case for this and we can describe the next version Stephanie Costa from Orange sorry I haven\u0027t had it hatched yet but I will do I\u0027m just wondering how is it different from what we are currently doing for example in M VPN or EVP and procedures where we are sending some updates that are targeted to a specific node so for example in the explicit tracking for the MVP and ease it sounds really similar ah no we are just using regular communities to do this in repeat using we are using the existing IP v4 extended communities via how targets using real targets will your folk Dodge telecom JA essentially jumping on that your claim that what you want to do you cannot you have don\u0027t have a mechanism in the current PGP I think is false like Stefan was pointing out the thing is when you actually use your policy configuration of course you can implement all kinds of weird or weird filtering and so on and with the expanded code space that we have available in the regular pot in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:51",
    "text": "irregular community attributes you can do even more interesting things but you need to do the configuration on each node yeah well okay kind of kind of you need to essentially well okay there is a trade-off whether you rely on your vendors actually implementing all the stuff or you set up your signaling signaling system and code the policy on the Rooter configurations yourself yes okay I have to call it I\u0027m done now thank you everybody yes thank you last talk we may run over a few minutes I hope you will be patient if you need to leave because you have another thing to go to please try to step out quietly okay hi get ontological to present the strap bTW pls so what does this draft propose we have bt pls in RFC 77 52 for northbound distribution of topology information T part but the focus has been mainly on iGPS how to do this from a GP networks for the segment routing egress PR engineering use case we first introduced the protocol BGP so that link state information for three from BGP could be advertised out what this draft does is it specifies the mechanism procedure for doing the network topology advertisement in a network that\u0027s running only BGP so there is no other no IGP running only BGP running how do you advertised a topology out there and why is this required there are MSD C\u0027s which run BGP as the only protocol today and RFC 79 38 you know I\u0027ve talked about this in these networks controllers do not have a view of the underlying link topology in the network the traffic engineering information that\u0027s not available you know similar thing is there today with a GPS why do we need this information well this can be used in the BGP only network for doing traffic engineering there are use cases defined for in segment segment routing that you can do SRT in IMS DC this informational traffic which talks about that so this draft also uses or talks about a use case where segment routing T paths are set up in these bgp only networks using the topology information that is advertised so how is it done really it\u0027s enabling bt pls on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:53",
    "text": "each bgp node in the network and each of those routers advertise its own node links prefix and T policies out via bt pls the draft specifies what are the BGP descriptors to be used for each of these different NLRA types and also talks about different existing bt pls attributes which are already defined in several other bgp LS crafts how they are to be advertised the procedures all of that at this point in this 0 0 version there are no new TL v snooty alvey\u0027s or additions described but they may come in a future versions so what\u0027s the use case or how is this seen to be used so this is a really talking about bgp srt in a bgp only network the red lines really are the links and show the paths which is available using the base you know BGP decision process so let\u0027s say in this case we have ipv4 labeled unicast with BGP prefix seed and this provides really the you know the normal digital path through the network but in the use case where we want to engineer specific flow via a certain path through the network then that can be done by a controller the controller now has the view of the entire topology all the links all the prefix sets for the nodes you know all the T information it just sets up SRT policy on the node I here and says the prefix set which is go to let\u0027s say a and then K and then you know out forward so the controller can instantiate this policy on let\u0027s say the tour here and this allows to do bgp srt in you know existing BGP data centers what is not change and the pace BGP underlay is not changed here so we still use you know whether you have ipv4 or ipv6 or Lu with SR or without SR this follows the you know BGP decision process that\u0027s the best thing thing not to use existing bgp peering models are continued to be used the draft in this version focuses on the ebgp single hop mechanism which is in RFC 79 38 but future versions we could have other peering models included based on the you know working group feedback "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:56",
    "text": "the BGP LS sessions are formed to a controller using the reach ability that is provided by the under layer routing right and as I mentioned in the tea use case this is used for setting up the SR policies here just quickly a couple of slides so this is really the topology collection the the bottom most is the BGP routers and how they you know work that\u0027s unaffected no change is there what\u0027s new is the BGP LS sessions that are set up from these router either to let\u0027s say a BGP speaker like a centralized speaker which is consolidating the feed from the routers and giving it to a controller or it could go directly to a controller so that\u0027s the new this thing the underlay is as mentioned it is unchanged it is the base BGP final slide quick look at what is the topology information and the details are in the draft but we have information about a node which includes you know the node name sRGB of the node MSD of the node and similarly for the link level we have the basic stuff which is the like the PPE seeds or the peering suits then link MSDS but also we can add the T attributes for the links you know these can be run even in a data center the prefix information is really the node set alone and whenever policies are set up on any node these can be exported also why a BGP LS along with their binding segments so that you know it can be used for traffic engineering so this is just the first version look forward to review with the working group and no comments puts I have a quick question but before that a disclaimer I have not read this draft as I understand from what you just said there are no new TL which defined but it is used for a fabric definition is this just a informational document or is this doing anything specifically that requires an interoperability or a standardization yeah so this is proposed to be standards track because there are described the procedures for encoding it for BGP only network it\u0027s important to specify which exactly distribute descriptors are needed for links nodes Internet in this thing so that is interoperable so let me get it straight but I may not choose to honor those procedures I may just send everything in LS and this should still work so as far "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:58",
    "text": "as attributes is concerned yes you could send whatever what\u0027s more important is that the links and nodes are described with the right descriptors so that you know you can have the two-way check or the connection but that happens regardless right if they are not if they are done differently by different implementation then you would not be able to correlate I\u0027m really trying hard to figure out do you have any standardization here or is this just an informational storytelling or which is perfectly fine by the way so as I mentioned the standardization is for the procedures in this version but you know that may be new tlvs and things added in the upcoming version yeah so right now it\u0027s mainly for the procedures and how to do the packing okay thank you and thanks to everybody for sticking through to the end and wherever the blue sheets are I\u0027d appreciate it if somebody would bring them up to the front or at least wave them around yeah thank you and see you next time bye Oh "
  }
]