[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "Mhmm. Is is Braun going to Beyond remotely. I don't think so. Okay. Ken says he thinks Braun's still traveling. Okay. Okay. So Well, it's it's the bottom of the hour. Shall we start? Yeah. So I think you are the one that can open slides or I I am not. I am I'm just I'm still listed as a participant. Not a case. a chair. So you're the you're gonna have to run the slides or I can I can run them. I can request slides here. So I just requested sharing slides, and you can approve that. Okay. So -- Alright. -- I click I transferred to the slides. Okay. chair slides, Alright. So here we go. Alright. I'll give the quick intro. Welcome to the Calxt meeting at TF117. I am the person in the front of the room, and we have a chair online whose face you see over there screen that is preventing you from scanning the QR code that you need to scan to get in. So we have this thing that can We'll give you if you need it. which has the QR code to scan to sign the blue sheet and tell us that you're here so that we get a bigger room next time for the crowd that we have. Daniel, head for chairing. Go for it. Thank you. So this is a calendaring extension session. Next slide. I mean, unless you have never seen the note well, It's time to read it. Probably next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "And because Northwell was not enough, we There is a note pretty well. that's basically, you have to behave properly. Next slide. Yeah. So maybe that's a give given the number of people we are, if you have to say something I basically think that you you can jump to the mic here I think that's pretty fair. Yeah. Next slide. So the agenda. So this is where we are. we do have some GS contact drafts that are in the RFCD2Q, but are that keeps on being updated. So Robert is going to have a presentation on that. and we will probably discuss some of the question I received from from the from our AD, which is the security area ID, doing that job. but but but Let's have the discussion later. There are 2 drafts that are in working group last call. but I think for over 6 months, so One of those has the shipper being written up. The other one, I think does not have it yet. So I was wondering if anyone present knows where those draft are are. with the status, they're ready to sent to the ISG, or are are we waiting for something? Hi, Daniel. This is Ken."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "I don't actually have an answer for you, but I'm standing up let you know that Mike had anticipated being here today, but I received a text earlier that said something came up and he wasn't able to. Oh, okay. They did let me He did let me know that all the drafts that he's currently working on have not been updated since 116. So there's not much to add to certainly the expired drafts, and My guess is if they if the other 2 have been last call for 6 months. they probably just need to refresh, and maybe we can move on with them. Yeah. That's what I think too. Because one of those is is addressing some comments received from the shepherd brand. So But, yeah, I hope everything is fine with Mike, and I will probably clarify that when he is back. but but but but but but I agree with you that I think the they should be close to be shipped. Then we have a full branch of expired draft. So I I I think Yeah. Now there is a battle between those think Robert is in charge and those mic is in charge. but but Robert, can you date a little bit how you expect the the draft you you were handling to Hey. This is speaking, so the the once in the first bullet of the expired are to once I'm I've been working on also with Mike, actually, we're we let them expire because we basically have no bandwidth to work on them. for me, that's mainly because of the JS contact work, and I don't think I'll be able to work on them until Chase contact is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "published, published, Okay. Right. So but I mean, as soon as GS contact is is published, you will be working on those, how long do you expect that work? to to take. Is that a 6 months or a multi years? I So first of all, I'm not sure if I will be able to immediately start working with them. I can back to you on that later. in terms of Well, I think that that's going to take about a year Okay. That also depends on how many people are willing to join the integration tests that we want to do pile writing the specs. Okay. So let me ask you, as a milestone, should we target July or November next year? November next year. sounds -- Okay. -- somewhat reasonable. Reason. Yeah. is no commitment, though. It's just for us to check. does anyone as any idea about the other drafts or does want to say anything Yeah. This is Ken. Just to to add on to what Robert said about the the JS calendar stuff. I I know that Calconnect would like to do some interop testing before we publish another set of drafts that might have issues to avoid what what happened with the first go around. So you know, pushing it off to next November sounds reasonable to me. As far as the other drafts there, I know Mike is so interested in series. I don't know. I think he has an I don't know if anybody else has expressed interest. so I'll let Mike speak to that. As far as the v pole, I know there's interest within fast mail,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "and we'd like to implement that particular spec but there's just no timetable on when that might get done. But I I will certainly work with Mike to get that one refreshed and get it to the point where we can maybe do some some some testing server side subscriptions, think we are waiting to see if we get any kind of feedback from the Apple folks where this kind of started And to this point, we haven't had Petmit will find anybody that shows any interest in in joining the effort, at least informing our effort So that might that might just stay expired for a while until it gets pick back up. And, finally, Kldev's scheduling controls. I think that's Browns And I think he let it expire because it was no longer needed. Okay. But we can I'll I'll I'll check with him once he once he lands and He's available. He's available. Oh, yeah. There is no hurry with that also. So and what about V Pool? Vipo is the one that I said I I will work with Mike to get that refreshed because there's definitely some interest in the fast mail. to use that down the road Okay. So vehicle ends. And So okay. And series is the one you don't do you don't know? It it's only Mike. Yes. Sears, this is this is Mike's baby. I think he's using it within his own product but I don't know if anybody else has shown any interest. So I don't know What the urgency is to to move that forward. But if if Mike wants to carry the torch Mike wants to carry the torch on that, then He's welcome to speak up on the list. Okay. Right. I I would check with him, but I I do see that the next mean, other than the cal calendar I GScalendars draft, v pull and series, will be the neg. The next one we we will address."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "That sounds correct. So let me interrupt here because a bunch of people just came in the room. Yeah. Okay. Because Daniel's on the screen, the code you need to scan is not on the screen, but there's this blue thing over here that you can scan. please do it so that we get a bigger room next time, and it's not so crowded. Or you could anyway, any way you log in to Meet Echo will work. So Kent, just to make it, is July next July fine for Vipo. That sounds reasonable. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. So for the folks that just just joined the session, I'm just wondering if they want to something about any of the current work or if we move directly to Robl's presentation on just contact. Yeah. I think we just go on Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I suspect Robert, you can take the floor. Hello. I'm not sure should I present these slides or is someone ranking them for me. I haven't I don't know. If you do them, then you can control them or I'm happy to do them and control them from here. But but probably easier if you just request slides. I haven't I haven't done that before. So Well, give it a try. The on the second icon, the -- Oh, yeah. that's that's the wall. Yep. Yep. Oh, I have to grant it to you. that Oh, okay. And now oh, I see. Okay. Perfect. All right. Share"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Oh, great. Can you see that? Yep. Okay. Perfect. So I'm gonna talk about the Chase contact graphs that Marianne and I are working on. So we we had ended working group last call in December last year, and we started IETF last call then in January. As you can see in the first 4 or 2 years of writing the drafts in comparison to what happened since we started IT off call, you might realize that there's been a lot of churn on the specifications since then. We received extensive feedback during IETF last call, and I think that feedback made specs much for the better. That being said, we now consider the specs complete, And we we yeah, we're basically happy with how it turned out. going to to discuss a couple of changes that we did So for Chase contact, the overall message here is that in terms of the data model, Not really that much has changed. majority of changes that we did in this specification was in the In clarifying a lot of the stuff that we that in the in the previous versions was implicitly assumed and I and I guess during the working group last call that didn't show up to be much of an issue because many people there we're already, like, thinking in terms of the JES calendar works. So a lot of them was for for them already was, like, implicit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "but we hit a lot we we got a lot of feedback for ITFS call from people who obviously were not did not really look at Jay's calendar before. And so didn't know much of the terminology and and idioms to be very reusing from there. That being said, we did a couple of changes in contact mainly around names and addresses. For names, we now align the name data model with what the unicode what unicode is doing for personal name formatting, For at addresses, we we added quite a lot of new address components to better for international addresses. especially from for Japanese but it was other Asian languages. We got requests for supporting pronunciation. I will present later in later today, how we did that. We repeatedly got the feedback that the data format is quite verbose, and we try to is to narrow that down. mainly, for example, by removing some kind of some some metadata that is almost always implicit in the data model anyway. One of the last changes we had to do, which we only considered after we ran out of all other options we had to change the semantics of the patch object of for GS contact, I will later also show why is that? And as I said already, most of the updates in this specification were actually examples and clarifications."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "On the other hand, the JS contact vcard document, which is the one which is defines how to convert between the Chase contact format and we got format, this got a lot of new stuff added because now we'll fully cover all, again, a registered we count elements, and we are actually registering quite a bunch of new ones. I get to that on the next slide. We added a lot of examples for implementers to to clearly see where we are getting at with these conversion rules We also had to we'll also we'll also need to register a few a few properties both for Chia's contact and vcard that really are only useful for conversions. So we put them in this document because we don't expect them to be used for outside of the context of converting between these two formats. The we card Chase content extensions document is the third and last one. And this document is a bond where we define for Wecard where we define new stuff we card that we need to convert between JS contact and vcard. since the working group, the Calix working group charter requires any new extension to define Features in both formats either being icalendarjscalendar or, in this case, GS contact and b card, we defined a couple of new properties and parameters for vcard. We also had to we were also going to up date the existing address and name properties"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "for vcard, I'll also present more on that Soon. But looking at this document, from another perspective means this is the stuff that that that state that we edit to the context data model by defining JS contact. So that's all the stuff that weaker didn't cover already. So getting to pronunciation, I can imagine might not be that easy to read for you, But, basically, there was already coming out from Calconec an IETF draft in a single 0 version in 2018 that was started as an attempt to to define for Bcard, how to how to add phonetics especially for names, to be card. We picked that up change it a little bit for what we also needed for JS contact now on the on the on the left side, on the in in the for the vcard, you see how we would how this would be represented by our posting a vcard. and and farm Likewise, you see how it's how it's encoded in Chase contact. hear you as a as a as a side effect, they also see why we needed to allow patching, existing array members in shares context because otherwise, the deep the patch object that we're using in the localizations document would just, like, blow up and and and add unnecessary unnecessary redundancy in redefining the name components that we are actually not wanting to change."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "On the next slide, I'm So here, I'm going to talk about what we added to the existing vcard address property, The first bullet lists the ones that the original vcard version 4 are defines. The next audit lists what we added. Here, you can see that where where we call for define a single component street address, which included a lot. of stuff, especially since the extended address in post office box already were deprecated in in RFC 6350, We basically split what's what typically went in Street addressing to a lot of new components so that it's more clear what is what in in this industry And while doing so, we added as I said, a lot of stuff that's mainly interesting for let's say, non non western addresses. when we did that, we we extended the So we we kind of extended the property value of the address property We tested it with a couple of implementations. of some of them being the Google People API and also the or or the product, actually, and the Apple clients a couple of other implementations. And it turned out that all implementations we try we send them our new values just basically ignored everything they didn't know. didn't know. So that's a good sign for us that we can go ahead with that, we think. And for we also define a rule how to encode these extended address values also in the back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "reports compatible way in the street address. the Same thing we are doing for the vcardnames. where we didn't have to add that much. We only needed to add the new it for a secondary surname, which is, like, a very like like like like a very different like, a different thing than is her name, we currently didn't allow for that. so far. And we are also splitting generations like junior or the 3rd from where they typically went into the honorific is because the It's it's not really the same. and doing so allows us to again, align the name, vcard, model with the unicode person name model. And with that, implementations will be able to use a lot of a couple of very sophisticated unicode algorithms for formatting person names. Similarly, like like we did for address, we tested this again. we didn't see any client failed. They just ignored what they didn't understand, And, again, we define a rule how to how to encode names also in a format that these clients can can see all the values of the name So with all these v chord changes, we are thinking of we should if we define a new vcard version I'm not sure if we will come to a conclusion this meeting, Otherwise, we might get ask that on the mailing list. there are a couple of reasons for doing so and for not doing it, nth I I I couldn't tell at the moment. I I kind of would tend to say we bumped the version, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "would like to hear more from other implementers on on on their opinion. And As I said before, we consider this complete We are currently doing interoperation tests And then when we've, like, when we have successfully completed that stage, we are we would like to finish last quarter. That's the end of my presentation. I just have one question. You mentioned that you created some properties only for the purpose of conversion, Correct. I'm wondering if those property so those property never happened to be found in any any file. Where where are they they will be found? Like, we will register them at Ariano Okay. but we we're like so we have this document, and we will register them at Ayanna. but we are not putting it in this document because this document, we think, ets, adds new elements to vcard that might even be useful for implementers, should they not ever implement Cheah's content, but still get an extended data model for B card. But these conversion properties, they are really just the binding blue when when someone wants to convert, so we don't put them in the same specification. okay. So just for me to understand, if I give you a GS contact, So you transform it into a vcard contact, Will I have those properties or no? Well -- Yeah. -- it it can be it depends on the it depends on on the contents of your of your card, but they can -- Yeah. -- can show up, but they are they are defined in a way that every"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "standards compliant, weaker client will see them, but not know what to do with them and just ignore them, basically. Okay. Right. So it's like a it's very internal Yeah. So and then Yeah. Okay. Okay. So then Okay. Then it's from that v cards, specific v card, you can go back to the GS contact. Correct. Okay. Right. Is that one of the thing that justify a new version or No. I think these these are are not that interesting, but the the the ones that might warrant the new version are changing the value types of addresses and names because that's something we change Yeah. Yeah. we change something existing here, And addresses and names are like I mean, they are the core of the context data model. That's yeah. Okay. Right. So what I I'd like so you you have to finish some interrupt test, mean, to finish the the working with Glasgow. To my view, the changes are not I mean, we we had from the ASG so Ramen, I'm just seeing the AD, it told me that The ISG was wondering whether we should put those document back into working group on that. My position is to say that the changes are not I mean, I I don't want to say they are minimal. but but but but I would say, from an ISG perspective, will probably not see the difference. between the document that are that had been accepted and the current version."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "So this is why I would more more in favor that we have as wrong review within the working group, but we don't bring back the document in the working group. So simply put, I don't think that's gonna be useful that the ISG review a second time those documents. That's it. I don't know what the ISG is willing to do. But what in any case, I it's very useful now that some people from the working group, start reviewing those documents. Or so my question to you, Robert, is do you think we should wait a little bit before asking people to review? Or other document ready for review. notice sooner the better. Okay. We we don't we have no changes planned except for, like, Diversion. Yeah. We have now no. changes in the contents plan. I mean, we we sometimes we see there type or whatever. So We are updating specs, but not we're not changing really something interesting. So my question to the audience, remote and on-site is who could commit to review I mean, those draft. There are 3 drafts They're pretty easy to review. So I'm wondering if if some people could commit to to review that during this month, or during the 2 next weeks. would be really appreciated. So Any volunteer? Daniel, this is Ken. Since I'm actively implementing this, and I'm reading these things in a hourly basis, that'll commit to reviewing them. Okay. Thank you, Ken. do we have anyone from Apple"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "Danielle Phillip. Wrong team. No. No other volunteers. Well, I I will ask also some volunteers on the mailing list. So maybe the audience a little bit broader. But, yeah, we we I'd like those reviews to be done, let's say, by theendofAugust, so that we could basically tell the RFC editor and the ISG, they're ready to be edit published. That's what I am aiming to. but then I don't control all the bits. So thank you, Robert. I think Neil is in the queue. Oh, Okay, Neil. I I -- I -- -- for some reason. Yeah. I didn't actually have any questions. I just wanted say really big thank you to Robert and Mario because it's been a monumental effort with this. last call feedback and You've done amazing work. So -- Thank you. Yeah. That's correct. This is Ken. I was actually gonna say the same thing hear listed, but did it for me. Couple other issues. Danielle, you said that you you were not gonna ask the ISG to to review these. Did I hear that correctly? Well, I'm I'm I'm saying that the what what the review is probably enough. Okay. Which means -- Maybe I'm just gonna say -- -- is Maybe I misunderstand what you're saying, but Robert can correct me if I'm wrong, but think a lot of the changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "for non westernized names and addresses were a result of feedback from the IESG. And if that's the case, I think those reviewers probably wanna look at the new text. Yeah. That's correct. Yep. Okay. So because I Okay. I I had in mind that those comments were coming from reviewers outside the ISG. But yeah. Yeah. So, Robert, if you If you have the names, I I I think we should fact, definitely, the people that provided some reviews to confirm that it's fine with them. I actually missed that some of those reviewers were from the ISG, but I would say, I would like to avoid a formal review by the ISG, but I would like as much as we can, some review us to review the documents. I I know who to contact for the international stuff. And looking at the data tracker, there's there's think there's one issue marked for for this document DGS contact document. And I think that's from Roman, but that's -- Yeah. -- very likely to be a of because of an outdated version But we, like, we let it in there because we didn't want to publish them too Yeah. That's a that's a so so that's for him, it's pretty clear. early. I I I think we should not track the people that can review the documents. wherever they are from, And then once we we are pretty confident that the document is is fine that we tell officially, the ISG or the AD that it is fine. and my hope is that it it remains in the RFC editor queue, and they just publish it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "But maybe they will be they they are worst case, they are willing to put it back in the working group. then we will say, yeah, we have all the reviews and I mean, it's just the ISG redoing a ballot, and and and that dance. But if we can avoid that, that would be great. But it doesn't it means we need to be to to have those reviews. Cool. So I'm gonna stop the presentation. I would like talk about one more thing related to vcard. just shortly, please. And that's a question because the RFC 6350, so the current v cut version 4 they are defining for the address property, a labeled parameter, which is, like, meant to, like, include a full address that you can put on a label if you send a package or whatever. but we realized that parameter is not registered at Diana. So I don't know like, if we fight in a router for 6350 for the INR register, we will that trigger Ayana to register that let that parameter or do we or should we rather add this parameter in our specification because Ayana, we need to act on them anyway, So that question, I I'd like to maybe ask Barry what he thinks, but it's probably good that you add in the current spec we are adding that that level label, Yeah. So but we will not redefine it. We will just edit to our template for Ayala. And maybe they will simply remove that and say, okay. We edit. I I don't know what they do, but -- Okay. But maybe Barry another opinion. has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I was gonna bury myself because I I my understanding is you you you can't file an errata against something that's not in Ayanna if it was never in the original attacks of the IRC to end a Titanic Correct? You can you can file an IRADA report that says this should have registered something with Diana. that doesn't get it registered. It only alerts the reader Right. To the omission. Is there anything preventing Robert from adding the registry to his extensions draft? No. Okay. So we do that. That that sounds like easier course at that point then. Perfect. Alright. Finally Neurada's gonna do nothing other than just make a notation, but it's nothing's ever gonna get done with Right. Okay. Great. Yeah. This this it it would be A reader might sort of burp on it saying what does this have to do with this document, but there's nothing procedurally that says you can't create an unrelated registry or or create a registry that you're gonna use that should have been created before, you can create it now, something like that. I mean, any of that stuff is fine. Right. So when Robert does the ration, should he refer to 6350 as the document that it appears in? Yes. Yes. Okay. Yeah. What what I would do there is create the registry and say, that the reference for the registry is the old document and this one or something like that. Alright. Can we do that? Thank you. While while I'm standing up here, this is still Ken. On the discussion of whether we should bump the vcard version from 4 to 4.1. Robert, I'm assuming The thought there is if we do bump it is because you'd extended the address and name the number of components and not because of all the other extensions. Correct? Yes. That's that's our main idea. Like, if we if we would bump the version we thought we would really trigger the client to like, not expect"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "the values to be at the backwards competitive replaces and Like but Yeah. I I guess my sorry. for our from our testing, we, like, realized that apparently, clients are not looking at the version anyway. Yeah. That that that's what I was gonna say. It doesn't appear any clients in most of the cases. look at the current version, whether it's 3 or 4, And because you've defined a way to make the values backwards compatible if a client ignores the rest I don't know that we necessarily need to bump the version, but I could be convinced otherwise. Yep. Is that the normal behavior? that the ignore the version or I gets at some point they should look at that version. So Yep. I mean, in context of we cart, it's so regularly, it's not normal, I would say, but in context of we carded kind of his because it has gone through a couple of iterations the whole they they Yeah. This is Kenning it from from what little testing I've done. It seems like most clients assume everything's vcard version 3 anyways. Okay. And if you if you give it a a version 4, card with the actual INA registered properties to create a group most UI is to show it as a individual contact and not a group. In order to create a group, you have to use the the nonstandard apple properties that they came up with to get around the issue of most clients not using version 4. So don't know what the solution is here. and and does that prevent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "to finish the working group last call, or I I get I suppose it's yes. we need to fix that before declaring victory. I mean, if we decide to not bumped the version we Okay. we don't need to do anything. So it's mean, it's it's very easily done, but I'm I'm also inclined to see we're not going to change version because if clients are not going to look at it anyway, it Okay. doesn't make much sense. Yeah. I I I don't think the version should hold up anything. the the specs are are clear the conversion's clear whether anybody chooses to use version 44.1, that's out of scope for us. Right? We've we can find something that's clear use it or don't. Okay. I see. So okay. Right. Any other comments? I see none. So Yeah. We need to to look at those preview, and I think That's how our homework, and this session is probably Over. So thank you everyone for attending that session. And thank you, Robert, for having all those GS contact, as they are now. Thank you. Thank you. Bye bye, everyone. Hi. Thank you, Barry, for handling the group. Anytime. Right. you. Bye bye, everyone. But What's that? big old snap. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "Yeah."
  }
]
