[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "you can take minutes uh let's see here wes can i hit you up for that didn't he already do that yeah but i think he might be tied up for the moment or actually maybe i'll hit up rob rob wilton do you mind taking some minutes for us i can only do it for about half an hour because then i've got to drop for another meeting so i don't mind doing for the first half that's possible i can do the second half that works all right thank you very much and hopefully rachel rich is here i see him in the participant list oh hey rich rich volunteered so i think everybody's off the hook other i think rich uh agreed so uh we'll we'll thank rich and we will begin the meeting because it is now at that time um so first of all thanks everybody for showing up uh to the rfc editor future development program um brian and i are your hosts uh mr peter saint andre is our editor our program leads are jared and um wes as you can see as you can see if you go to the the webpage for the program we are in the final stretch which is why you see this wonderfully animated gif here um i don't know if we'll finish everything today uh brian and i have been talking we think if we can great if we can finish stuff on list great otherwise it is distinctly possible that we might need one more interim but we're really hoping not we'll see by the end of the meeting um so for that to happen we're asking everybody to uh you know keep their comments brief um but obviously if you feel you need to make a comment please do uh as we've been doing this the last few"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "times brian will be managing the queue uh in terms of who's talking um and uh we'll be uh going to them to to github for uh specific issues when we need to and um that's where we keep our issues list so without further ado um the notewell we we have used to apply here um uh i think everybody has been seeing um the the extended notewells in various uh meetings um i wanna stress that our anti-harassment procedures are part of this list and we when when we say really note well we are asking everybody to to put their best foot forward this is a contentious discussion people can get heated um just to remember that everybody here is is working the best interest of the internet um i see wes you you have a question please please or comment um i don't see rich logged into the editor so it would be good to verify that he is actually here otherwise rob and i can take over but or maybe he's taking notes somewhere else but rich there you are yeah taking notes in uh the link that posted in chat assume i got the right one okay um three people online and the one that's posted in the agenda the hedgehog duck are we in two different note sections again okay um just use the let let's use the one that rich is using just because he started that and that just makes sure that people follow through and if you guys can communicate out of band um to proceed um sam sam do you have a question or comment okay okay all right so um here we are at no well um and i think we can all say that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "we have noted well our agenda um we have noted well we propose to do very quick bits of bashing um i want to just go over the timeline very quickly it's changed ever so slightly i don't propose to take any comments on it because the rest of the timeline is likely to be based on how we do in this meeting and then uh it's up to the iab uh from there um we are offering uh the the q a from the community because we put out a note saying that we would take q a in this meeting uh from the community uh for people who have not been participating um we're not going to take a lot of that because we want to try and get through the issues but we invite anybody to ask questions on list at any time or you can ask the chairs if you want background feel free to contact us in any way then um we'll get right into issues we're going to do that for about 40 minutes and then we're going to be done any questions about the agenda okay so uh this is an update of the slide from last time the times have shifted a little bit excuse me i'm just getting over cold um the uh the good news is uh that the draft carpenter rcib charter was dispatched um at least i believe it was dispatched and so was the 2026 update that brian did that was also dispatched uh lars has agreed that he would take that otherwise obviously all that has to be confirmed on the mailing lists but it all sort of looks good um we are hoping assuming uh so we will absolutely need a new version of the the draft um peter and brian and i will be going through the results of this meeting as well as the editorials early next week and hopefully we'll get a draft out shortly thereafter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "um then uh we're hoping and this is sort of a finger in the wind just our guess as to when the iab can can begin this they have a process that's governed by rfc 4845 that starts the broader community review um and then at the same time we hope that the other documents can be uh developed uh um the uh hopefully based on any comments received from community review if you have to make some changes make some changes but otherwise uh allow for the iab to do its approval by the end of january and then we still begin formation of the r7 rswg at shortly thereafter and the iesg will have to the approval of the two documents that got dispatched as well as i think uh rich also has a document uh that is covered uh for uh for 2028 bis which is also being worked on um so then that's sort of where we're hoping but all of this assumes no more substantial issues and further that we're able to resolve what substantial issues that we have um if you have comments about this this is just mostly a finger in the wind but sort of where i expect things to go it's i'd like not to discuss that now but rather you know if you have issues with this please just take it to the list um again mostly most of this is prognostication not um not something that is in any way normative okay um moving on uh this is really a little bit of time set aside in as a priority for those people who haven't been participating if you have read the draft in particular and you have questions please if if in informational questions in particular please if you would join the queue um and uh see if uh and we'll see if we can get some questions answered um and if people do not join the queue in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "about in about 30 seconds then we'll just press on to issues and if we have time at the end we take more questions then because that just means more time to allow us to process through issues which is fine because i think we're all racing towards that finish line at this point all right um barring obviously the community is going to get a formal um opportunity to uh raise uh questions when we go through the the community reviews the iab process so there's still time for for things to come up and there has been time our uh our program last call just completed um i want to thank everybody who contributed and a lot of people did contribute um one might say well sadly we have a lot of issues to get through um but the good news is we've been able to bucket those and maybe we can move forward with a certain amount of alacrity now when i say alacrity though um anybody is invited to join the queue and say hey wait a minute um i want to i have a comment about this issue um what i'm going to do is i'm going to put forward the stack of slides that we have um show how we bucketed things and then we'll step through each of those slides individually and if you have questions or comments please feel free to um to to to provide your views um okay so now i have to get this on so this i'm going to try and make it bigger on my side so people can see a little better on their side whoa let me just see if i do this does it even help more um let's hear these are a bit of an eye chart i apologize for that um i'm just gonna see if i can zoom this a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "bit more is that better let's hope that it is so how don't you just get the first presentation though yeah good presentation though if i throw it into presentation mode i i sort of lose other views but let's try that see that works better can people see the presentation mode are they seeing the other mode oops sorry so these are the buckets if you uploaded the slides and converted them you can actually use the other button there which is not sharing your screen but sharing the slides directly that makes it much easier for you well i think for the moment let's just go with this just i think everybody can see um so the first there are mostly editorial issues i'm going to come back to this slide you can see we have a good number of them and i'll explain each of these issues briefly the second is where i think we have agreement um and there's a good number of issues here i mean look at this nice stack issues where i think i think we do have agreement of course the the obviously though they assume my assumption here is that that that we'll accept these but of course if you disagree um [Music] uh we'll uh we'll spend a little more time then we have things where we didn't hear a lot of support i want to spend a little more time on this to give those people who raised these issues the opportunity to speak if they'd like to do so but i'd like them again to be brief um and then there were some areas where we clearly have to have a bit more discussion excuse me um the uh the first issues are 93 and 94 which were proposed by martin thank you for staying up late martin to to engage in the discussion um one is about uh what uh appeals against rs rsap decisions in one case uh the we've said really it's process only but maybe we need to vary that slightly we'll get into more detail there and another um it's about um uh how how resolutions are happening uh what happened when they're a timely"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "manner it's a slight uh that's a bit of a tweak of the text and we'll go through that um we've seen a lot of discussions about statements and about also you know who controls the website and things like that that's really issue 117. um and then uh there's the who controls uh the last call so those are sort of the big ones that i think we need to spend a lot more time on so those are the grouped issues and i'd like now to back up to this and just ask so so let me step through each of these and i'll talk to them you can follow along in github [Music] in terms of the issue number to see the exact edits um and let's start i'm sorry no okay okay so in issue number 106 myria has proposed a concise a more concise statement for um uh the the beginning of the abstract that this i think it's something like this specifies the version three of the rc editor model and these uh editorial in these editorial issues i propose that on the whole you trust that peter will take your uh concerns into account um and so long as we're not modifying normative intent of uh the process that we've gone through over the last 18 months trust that he will do the right thing in terms of of being concise and things like that and using the language where appropriate um and if you see something you don't like when the update comes out of course you could say something um so then uh the other issue that i think miriam raised was what are the actual updates to certain other rfcs and uh uh muriel is very specific uh be a little more clear on what has changed and usually we do mention uh some particularly when there are updates we do mention the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "it's become a bit of a tradition to at least mention that either in the abstract but more likely in the beginning in the introduction somewhere to say here's what has changed in at the highest level um not not in great detail but at the highest level usually the words are put in the introduction uh there is a bit of discussion now around uh consistency around how selection committees were formed um the initial proposals was just to make this language the same but just as uh we were getting ready for this meeting i saw a note from jay saying wait a minute i think these two should be separate so i'd like to let's pile this one back into the discuss column uh uh and we'll let let's come back to issue number 111 a little bit later um the rpc sow this was just a slight editing and of of um how that uh how that issue should be dealt with um then um issue 121 um this was uh this is just a header change at this point initially this wasn't an editorial issue it was uh uh it was miria saying we haven't really addressed incoming but we actually did in one of the uh interim decide to not address uh outgoing i'm sorry we haven't addressed outgoing outreach and we decided one of the interims that we weren't going to do that but the title of the section needs to change um issue number 122 was is a slight wording change uh to which i i viewed as editorial which just is to refer to the rpc as being uh as contractually overseen um then uh issue number 124 is minor tweet to cover legacy editor uh rfc editor document that's to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "um that uh you can still use the the the the the rc editor documents that we had before still apply unless we have specifically said that they don't right and that they can then be updated later if needs be and mike provided some some good wording along these lines um and that's just for continuity's sake um 120 126 uh the this is um another one which was point in time rpc responsibilities and literally it says something like as of you know now or something like that and there's wording again there then uh issue number 130 was from ecker um and this was uh we really do want to be normative about this i think he's he's probably correct and then um so we're leaving it to peter to say uh chooses or shall choose and then in the discussion it came out and this is a little bit of a discussion uh do we need references to to the appropriate normative language rfcs uh 2119 8171 and i think since we are using xiao uh all over the place uh it seems to me like it doesn't hurt to to to do so but again i would just leave that to peter to decide unless somebody has a really strong opinion about it um then uh also eckerd pointed out really we should be more normally referencing 20 of 2418 rather than 7282 in terms of process management um ecker's particular concern is that 7282 is an informational document um versus uh 2018 which is really the normative way in which we manage working groups and then finally eckerd uh helped us be concise a member of community is a person so we could just use that phrase um and so these i'm going to suggest to peter you know please take these into account and use best judgment but before we move off of any of these issues i'd like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "open the floor if anybody has concerns about these resolutions okay um if you find that you do later obviously we we always confirm things in email um please please feel free to say wait a minute i'd like to uh like us to review this a little bit more um all right then we have uh issues that um we uh we we we should accept one of them it was really an editorial i put it in the wrong column this is just add a reference to draft carpenter that's actually in the working copy already um and then so here i am expecting at least some people to say okay to ask questions if you have questions so please do feel free um and i do want to share at least a little bit of github language here and there uh when it when it's appropriate um jay made a proposal to allow for a temporary uh rce to be appointed and i gave some examples about you know why that might be appropriate at different times my proposal i didn't hear any objections and i think martin i think you asked a question or two about it i didn't see any any further concerns if people have concerns about uh that that language you know please feel free to say so let's see here uh rpc responsibilities missing a couple of responsibilities and jay elaborated those um and those are specif uh and they're not in particular uh i didn't see any concerns raised on the list about that seem to have some support um the earlier deck of this slide said i didn't see a lot of support to remove the word ultimate and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "everybody came back to me and said oh yes you do so we should remove the word uh ultimate when it comes to ultimate authority of the llc um uh issue number 109 was uh if we're going to hard code rfc interest maybe we need a slight wording tweak which brian carpenter then proposed which was rfc interest or the equivalent if people would like to make other changes please feel free um this is a certain a simpler process for certain changes let's go to so 114 117 and 128 are all sort of wrapped up in one and i'm going to go to the text for that in a minute and i'll go to the text for um heritage this is an issue raised by stephen farrell um so let's go to 114 just a moment i'm going to share with different i'm going to share another second here let's find the sharing button again and then we're just going to share my whole screen let's try this okay and now i see i shared this this is screen one i think i need to share screen two yes okay allow okay now this is issue 114 right which was raised by john clanson and so in this we are talking about several different things um and between issues 114 117 and 128 we're talking about three things thing number one is whether the rsce had to wait to ask to be asked a question um and so this would be the equivalent of saying well you know that there's a train coming down the tunnel but the rsce"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "couldn't warn us and i don't think that was our intent and the proposal the pro proposed edits for that text are to basically say well the rfc rce can of course advise us if they see a train coming down the tunnel and the actual specific change for that can be found in issue 128 and then um [Music] so this other issue this issue in 117 has to do with who controls the website um the there is actually no text here yet for that and we'll talk about that in issue 117. um the text here the only except issue here was for the rsce text which it turns out it was wasn't 128. um and we'll come back to this when we get to 117. then um just a moment issue 119 so stephen and others raised concerns about the heritage and whether that should be taken into account in terms of how the rswg and rsap do their deliberations and in the discussion i think what we found was that the word heritage uh became a um a very uh difficult term to use um and so as i propose some text which is around this which says that rather than using the term uh heritage but simply uh to add an addition to what was there which this part was here already um [Music] this is the edition which was proposed really it's readable like i can't read them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "mike okay hang on a second is let me just make it bigger is that better oops that's a little too yeah mike gets in the queue thank you mike yeah um i as i said i owe i owe text for this on on prince of on the principal stuff this is sort of a reasonable amount of motherhood but i don't think it captures what stephen had in mind nor for my for that matter what my but i had in mind basically i'm looking at something to cover availability accessibility publication language commonality of purpose diversity of interest breadth of expression archival quality and world-class professional publication as sort of the base principles on what we're on where we're building from going forward the things the things that we don't want to throw out with bath water if you will some of this was expressed in bob's last report on the rrc series um some of it has been you know well understood if not expressed in text um or has been you know traveled about in various conversations i'm sorry for the delay it's just you know taking time to get things written or or steal the right text ecker i'd really be happy to see some text here but the way mike first phrase that is not something that i'm excited about seeing um i think that a number of those points are contested and that like the text here i believe has has in fact almost too much but like has the right sort of like everybody can form their own opinion about like what is good and what is bad but like like i don't want to spend the next three months fighting about like all the words mike just said which i think are in fact you know like like like the the many of those words"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "have been disabled precisely debates that like that like led to the situation buried down so okay christian excuse me enough i'm with eco on this one there are principles that have assured the success of the series but uh unless we can point to an existing document something that was written by john poster some time ago or something like that then i don't think that we should take on the task of actually in making an inventory and a list of those principles and defining what they are in this document if only for practical reason if we try doing that we are going to spend another three months arguing between ourselves and we don't need that mike yeah the problem with that is john didn't feel the need to break the stuff down because it was sort of a common uh common mindset of everybody at the time this is the way things were gonna go now i'm sure we could probably grab john clemson's to steve crocker uh bob hinden um scott bradner and say okay what what was in john's mind and get a pretty good idea of that but then you would be basically saying well you know that's your opinion i think there's things here that we need to basically capture and i think it's important that we that well for example um our does the does the rswg get to change the language of the series from english to something else so uh mike let me ask a question to you is this a guardrail that you feel strongly needs to be in this document or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "is this something that the rswg itself could take up and if it went into this document one reasonable question to ask is why couldn't the rs could the rswd change it no this this is one one of the things here is to put the language in that basically says that these are things that require going outside the comfort zone of the rswg and the rsab back to the original delegators to the iab iesg and llc to say you know we want to change this we the guardrails are put in place in meta language um and yeah we don't want and everybody here wants to change something and i have the suspicion we're going to be arguing about this for a while um okay the i look at i look at it this way we have spent a long time trying to get to the point of constraining the rswg to a particular set of things and it keeps getting expanded again i really prefer that we lock them in their box of writing documents and say something about what those documents are as opposed to just sort of saying no you can we're we're going to lock you in the box and then you can write a document that unlocks a box and let yourself out again after we've spent a year and a half or two years at this not a lot of fun peter i think before we go further i just want to ask the questions does if are there those who agree with mike on this point if we could hear from those people otherwise i'd like to hear from others who agree from mike on the list because we need to have some more support for that view i think at this point but if you're if you're in the queue to support mike please remain in the queue if not i'd like to hear from from from others who would support my comment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "peter yeah i did um include texts from 87 28 and 87 29 um which you know are approved rfcs and all that that um addresses some of the principles and those principles are expressed in those rfcs about the rfc editor function and so on so personally with my editor hat on i think that's enough for now and things that are coming from elsewhere or you know a process by whereby we interview folks who were there with john postel and things like that i don't think that's a good idea at this point if we want to take on some document about principles of the rfc series once the rswg is set up that's fine and that group can decide to take that on as a working group item thanks eric oh no joel sorry joel joel are you gonna gonna speak didn't hear the request because i came in when my system was just temporarily dropping audio sorry um i philosophically agree with mike i don't know that i will agree with all of the things he writes down but i think that it is important that we actually go through the argument as to what principles we think are important to have as base things that the rswg just doesn't get to just change by itself and maybe it probably it's a smaller set than i would like but if it is an empty set then most of the work we've done has probably been a waste of time so i i philosophically agree with mike and i think we need to put some effort into it i do not want it to become an unending effort"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "and i doubt i will agree with everything mike right but that's this this group needs to come to agreement on some of that okay so eric and then we're going to close this issue off for the moment i guess i'm i'm a little uh ignoring this question about like the guard about like what text you've written down i guess i don't really understand the premise here which is um you know one premise you could say is like we're going to decide now for all time that i don't know the rsc said it being english and and nothing nothing ever could ever change that maybe one thing we could say but the other thing you could say is you know we're going to decide um that you know the rc is being english and and what might seem to be saying is the rs rsvg can't change that but some other process which you can and i guess i'd like to understand what the nature of that process is because it seems the nature of that process is going to be signed off from the isg and the iab and some sort of survey of the community which like is precise more or less essentially the process through which like things that go through rswg actually get approved which is to say they have to be signed off by like that by like by like the by the rswg which has to go through community and actually signed up by the rsap which is constituent by constituted by people who work for the isg and the iab and so like it seems to be that like that isn't like i don't understand why we have them as a new processor because you have essentially the same moral like moral foundation as the process of learning rhwg so like i guess let's ask this question of you know the um you know like what the girl was upstate i like to understand in what way the um sorry my cat also opinions in what way um you know what other process we would invent for making for going outside those guard rails and what would give that greater democratic legitimacy than the process that we've coached here okay i've closed the queue on this issue and seems to have closed himself we'll give him a minute to rejoin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "uh we're going to have to take this up on the list clearly um okay yeah sorry about that like everything just blipped for um for 20 seconds there uh yeah we closed the queue so i think what i would propose is if we get a proposal and i mean very quickly um that can be discussed in brief and we can see that there is going to be some consensus on it then i think if we can get more elaborative words that we that that that we don't see a huge amount of disagreement over and we get those quickly i think we could include them otherwise um i think there's going to be a have to be a lot of support for really making a change at this point so um we'll take this to the list but the clock is ticking the issue has to be addressed quickly and and in a way that can can garner support um and that's my proposal okay so um no consensus yet right but the clock is ticking right proposals that can garner support quickly are welcome okay so um we're gonna move on let me share my screen again because that blipped out too that was really weird that it did that and here we go all right so then that was heritage um then uh mike had a had proposal 125 and was going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "go to that which requested a bit more specificity on the individuals um that uh that would be addressed in section 4.1 i think i saw that jay supported this change and unless their objections um i would say uh to allow this to to proceed um we haven't had a lot of discussion but if there are any concerns just you know please raise them um then we have um permit rfs are this is issue 128 permit the rc not not to wait to be consulted and i'll just flash that here this is very small changes right it just say remove if requested and then change this to rsc my provide guidance this isn't section 5. and peter i think you covered one of the two of these in one of your messages and then um ecker raised the point wait a minute what happens um how can how can the rsap decline a proposal as is discussed in in the introduction which raised the point which was um we didn't actually say what happens if um uh if the rsap if there if there isn't a success if the vote fails um and so we should have been a little bit more specific about that and so i proposed text onto the list which was this which is if a vote is taken and not and the proposal not approved is returned to the rswg the rswg can consider making further changes and the key thing here is can consider it might be that the you know that that maybe the changes are so radical and there's such a disagreement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "between um you know the the r-sab and the in the rswg that it won't come of anything but maybe it will as eric pointed out on the list eric you want to comment further [Music] i was gonna say this text is fine with me um i i guess i i was just when i was what i was reacting to was just a suggestion that was something other than send the document back to the list because i don't understand what that would be right um like we have no way of saying there's just no structure for saying like we will never consider any document anything like this ever like so go away there's no structure for that so like it would this was not intended to be like a substantive change which is like identifying the text and just changed okay okay any other concerns please do feel free to raise them um then those are the issues that we would like to accept the one issue that uh in this discussion that i think i heard we really need to a little bit more discussion on is 119. we'll take that to the list and see how far we get the next list of points i want to just go through a little in a little bit more detail too um why is this not moving forward there we go all right so these are the issues that i did not hear support for um now um the first issue was i think from lars and was um what happens if you have multiple people who have resigned in succession um should the three month timer be reset and i actually think we heard um suggestions of going the other direction no in fact we should hard code the three-month timer to uh the approval of of the document by the rswg um and so uh unless people want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "raise support for that um please feel free to comment and mike i saw you in the queue let me just ask um lars maybe if you could speak first if you don't mind mike lars was the one who opened this i'll just ask lars if you want to elaborate just a little here all right yeah so i don't care very deeply about this but um i raised it because maybe i'm a transport guy and i care about timers but um if we don't restart the timer when the second or subsequent position opens up those bodies will have a potentially very short timeline to fulfill their duties um and so i think the fair thing would be to restart the timer i see that you know you could sort of construct a case where somebody abuses that to sort of uh leave the body under staff but i i don't think that's a realistic sort of fear and we can sort of um deal with it with an appeals thing so that's my reason for modeling preferring that we uh restart the timer thanks okay mike thanks for being patient no worries um this interacts with the discussion we were having about who's doing last call so if the three if the three-month timer kicks off on the rswg approves it that includes the time for the last call on the rsab side okay and basically it means that if it's restarting every time somebody leaves the rsa b you could be a year at this um you know every time somebody leaves the thing will restart may not happen but that's the worst case so the i would be i would basically tie it to the um you know end of the community last call and three months from there period just don't don't worry about vacancies say that's the date and leave it up to the various"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "various organizations to to meet their their requirements okay let me just turn this around does anybody i just want to ask do people agree if there are those who agree with lars reasoning can you please speak up colin um yeah so so i i i i i i do agree with lazy's reasoning and i think it in general uh i'm concerned that this process seems to be trying well the the document seems to be trying to impose constraints to make sure that everything happens on a very strict timeline and yet my understanding of what this group is doing is that there's nothing here where there are actually likely to be any time constraints so i don't quite understand why we are so concerned um about time limiting difficult cases where there's clearly something gone wrong and we need we need time to sort out the process and i think all that's going to end up happening is we'll do what we do with all the timers in the working group process in the itf which is in practice ignore them so i think we're we're on we're over constraining things by specifying all these these time limits okay uh echo yeah i i largely agree with colin and lars um though the timer should be 200 milliseconds um the um uh um i guess i guess what i would say is also like it's not clear to me like how the timers like meaningfully work so i mean say we said this has to be done within you know this has to be done within within three within you know three months and you know then through some sequence and we're like might suggest basically we never we effectively never have quorum right because we never have like a full board it's like the effect is things just it can't be approved um i mean it be weird if the effect were that things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "were like the things were automatically approved um and so effective things just can't be approved which is the same there's like nothing happening at all so like i i just like i just don't think like this is like a case which is not i like it to happen which is pretty easy to get out of and like and like it does happen probably saying it's going severely wrong and it's not adversarial and like and just needs to be fixed so i i don't think trying to have a rule to manage that situation is as helpful okay let me turn this back around then does anybody mind this us uh permitting i i know mike spoke uh in terms of having this timer be automatic are there others at this point who feel like they they would be um upset if we did restart the timer based on an additional resignation okay i'm going to say them that we're going to provisionally accept this one yeah we'll have to go to the list obviously go to the list um okay then editorial expertise concerns this is something that john clenson expressed and others have expressed it at different times but um i didn't really see anything actionable or proposed changes to move on so um other than maybe the the whole model is something that they have concerns about but there's nothing really here to really take as an action so unless somebody has suggestions here i don't see how to address the issue um and i'll i'll just say does anybody want to speak to this in favor at this moment in terms of having well i'll say it actually is something different which is if you have something very specific a specific proposal bring it to the list quickly or this issue gets closed available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:14",
    "text": "me bring that one up okay and this is also another john clenson issue um i think he had a bit of a concern about a lack of accountability um i think though again unless there is a specific textual proposal i'm going to propose to close this issue i mean i didn't see really one um issue number 116 was different this i think was one that mark nottingham raised and uh it had to do with do we need to list the rfcs that get assigned into the rfc edit the new editorial stream um and we had discussed this previously in fact i had raised this issue previously and the group decided no we're not going to try and do that at this time um are there those who think that we should let me ask that question at this point if there are those who think that they that we should this did come up again recently and i think it relates to the svg rfc discussion that we just had on the list today people feel strong that we should list the rfcs that that the editorial stream owns please join the queue now and say so wes discussion going on in the chat that you might want to read which is should we move to issues that in face-to-face time rather than i'd propose all of these closed shears go to the list of just saying we're going to close all these unless somebody objects and instead move to stuff that requires something i guess anybody disagree we can do that oh we should have done that a little while ago sorry yeah maybe so um all right so uh let me get to these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "so these are the four issues um and i know we we have very little time and i apologize for that um these are the four issues that i think we need to spend a little bit of time on um we're going to start with issues 93 94. i'm going to bring up 93 and martin may i invite you to really talk a little bit about this if that's okay um assuming you're still awake so let's see here another section when i went through the detection that talked about appeals it had very clear text on the appeal basis for rswg decisions that's pretty crisp and clear but there was no the parallel structure that also talked about what uh appeal how the appeals work for the rsab but it didn't have the same clear definition for what um an appeal could be and i was looking to provide some guidance on what happened there and i think consistent with the um the policies that we have for the working group side of things we have we already have agreement that um appeals only really happen on the basis of not following the process and um i tried to cover that but then realized that the rsab is given sort of this other task which is to interpret policy and to make decisions that need to be i guess timely and expedient and so i tried to capture that as well and so that this is just three sentences one they feel on the basis of one policy another one to say you can appeal on the basis that you believe that their decisions were in contravention of an existing agreed policy and third say no other cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "didn't like some of the specific word choices but i think i think we thought about it on the list okay um can people do people have opinions about this text first of all are there those who would support martin and his concerns if you would just you know please join the queue and say so like okay i'm seeing something from peter okay and okay so we have a couple of people who do support and mike go ahead if you if you'd like to add in the wrong wrong point in the queue um the there doesn't need to be texts about uh about the appeal the question is i limiting it in the way that that there that is here is kind of weird um among other things because like i said in my other text the rsab is generally going to be the interpreter of the policy so explaining how they violated the policy they interpreted is going to be kind of an interesting interesting discussion um i think the key here mike and just if i may if i could just add i think this is does the iab get to reinterpret what they whether whether the rsap misinterprets something that's the question it would be difficult for them to do that because they i i don't do they have the specific domain knowledge of what's been going on at that point do you need you know i i don't know um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "if i may i think where what i saw from from martin's proposal was that there's two things that we're asking the rsab to do one is to approve documents that come out of the working group the other is in cases where it's unclear that whether there's an existing policy or whether there's a gap in policies and the authors and our rpc and other interested parties are trying to work things out um i think martin's right we need to make someone responsible for coming to a resolution of that and so his proposal was the rsabs ought to be the ones who are on the hook to make sure that those things get resolved and if the thing gets resolved in a way that it ought to be appealable what the r said what our sub action was taken because they might have ignored the fact or missed the fact that there actually was a policy that covered this instance and so i think that's what i got from martin and i think it does make sense to have something along those lines because this is something that the artists have ought to be responsible for and there's got to be some sort of uh process but to hold them responsible thanks there's one other thing that i might add here um which is that when there is no policy and the rsap makes a decision that's not appealable at that point so we're giving them that much rope and they're they're allowed to to make those decisions on on their own authority okay mike and i'm sorry peter you still in the queue or uh i'm coming out it's mike and then we'll close the queue and we'll take this back to the list okay yeah i think it's i keep looking at this and there's a chicken and egg problem here because the policies are written editorial stream documents that have already been published okay not the document that's coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "through the rsab at the time that's being evaluated so you could point to a previous editorial stream document and say okay that says we have to publish this um and that would be the appealable thing but the document itself if it's trying to esta if it's trying to bootstrap its policy the rsav can say no i think that's the right answer okay i think this one has to go back to the list for for a bit for a bit more detail so no consensus back to the list for now and i think probably the best thing to do is to get into more the source of the issue at first before we start formulating with language um this really didn't get enough uh discussion on list and and i'd like to see some more um issue 94 is also martin's um this one's a much hopefully much simpler issue what it basically said was when there is a disagreement a policy disagreement um before it get uh rather than just say uh that the parties can can resolve the disagreement that um the responsibility lies with rsap and this is when you have an inter stream dispute so um the change is being that's being proposed here is this are there any concerns with this change let me just ask that this is almost edited it's not quite editorial because it does shift the responsibility of the rsap does anybody have a concern about this change someone raised a concern about that the time order that this implies and i think that we can just fix that editorially yeah i just sent something to the list that that is a text so we can talk about that there okay okay all right then let's we're gonna proceed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "sorry uh yeah please close your mic if um if you're done speaking uh okay so i i think we have uh 117 we've had a lot of discussion on the list around whether the rswg can make statements or not this will be the last issue we covered today because we're going to run out of time and i'd just like people to to to provide some comments to say how they'd like to see this issue resolved i'll make two two comments the first is um it seems to me that the overhead of statements or what have you is really in the finding of consensus um and not so much in the bits uh but that's elliot's personal opinion um and uh the the actually i'll just leave it at that um and just ask people to comment about where they see where they see the right resolution here in terms of proposals uh joel it's very clear the rswg can send email to anybody it wants the rswg chairs can send email to anybody they want but statements that are binding in the sense of iesg statements are not within the process we've laid out and i would be very strongly opposed to trying to extend the process to do so and none of the arguments i have seen for doing so make it uh are i'm sorry i i can't get my head around them okay um and by the way i'm going to split this dish into two because there's statements and then there's like a responsibility a discussion that also happened but on the statements aspect miriam yeah i i i agree to the point that i think the the heavy part of the process is getting consensus right and if you have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "consensus i don't see why you would just issue a statement or an rfc so i think that the working group should really be bounded to writing rfcs that's their purpose putting policies into rfcs getting consent so if at all any kind of statements are needed then maybe it's for the uh rsab because the rsab as we just said might you know resolve conflicts on a on a more timely basis and for these kind of conflicts or any kind of issues then maybe want to write them down somewhere okay what other people like to comment on this aspect mark two minutes yes it's working i think it's working the little graph is moving um yeah i i think if if the statement can become and not necessarily as was discussed unless there are situations where it might not be good for it to come operative as soon as there is you know consensus and it goes through the rsav process that goes a long way towards addressing this but you know keeping in mind that that the there is it is still cost in terms of overhead for the authors going through auth 48 it goes to the rpc as we all hopefully know the rpc cost is something on the order of a hundred and twenty five dollars a page um it seems a little silly to publish some of the things that might come out as rfcs but i'm not gonna lie down in the mud about that um i do question however why the iab and the iisg put out non-rfc statements quite often if this is the the attitude of the community let me ask you mark mark mark let me ask you and the group this is this something that maybe the the could it's a process refinement that could be addressed um in the rswg and the rsap itself a discussion and uh some people thought very strongly that the the rules cannot be modified by this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "body um and and so uh i would be concerned about assertions that that could be a path out of this okay miriam you you want the queue again you just want to clarify because uh mark brought up by his gen ib statement so these documents are explicitly not community consensus statements right these are statements from the iab which is a well-defined set of people and these are statements from the iep which is another small set of people so this is not community consensus okay it is the bottom of the hour here in switzerland and i think in most places i apologize that we didn't quite get to the last issue on the 117 i'm going to say it unless there's strong concern i think the statement aspect is something that we'll leave aside for now but the other aspect i want to just ask people to take as a homework assignment is to make sure that people are comfortable with the idea that the rswg can establish processes to address uh aspects like open source or or content management um working of course together with the llc in doing so um we i we started a little bit of that discussion i had an exchange with mark on that i'd like other people to comment on lists and if we can close on that then i think we're very close to being done um we actually made a lot of progress today believe it or not we covered most of the issues that that were open you guys were really prolific in terms of agree and very conscientious in terms of reading the document for clarity uh for gaps it was all really good uh so we'll we have a little bit more work to do but we're really close so um with that what i'd like to do is just ask for any other business i think we are out of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:09",
    "text": "okay so uh miria please oh god okay okay we're done so uh brian further comments any other any additional comments uh no we'll have to consider whether we need an another interim it depends on whether we can close these on the list pretty quick if we can great if not that's what we'll do okay and then peter thanks again for your editorial efforts um on this and uh please look for we will do an update very soon uh to the document even if we don't address every last issue we will we will uh we will still have an update out and i want to thank again everybody uh and look for the look for the updates soon and i'll see you on the list thanks all right thanks elliot thank you to both chairs for this long process you guys have done a stellar job thanks peter take care"
  }
]
