[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:29",
    "text": "okay well we're right at the top of the hour give folks a few more minutes to join I don't know uh Debbie I just see you here um so I don't know if you're actually um able to focus I am here oh fantastic fantastic great um yeah I kind of feel like we're GNA get into uh we're probably not gonna have that many people here uh I haven't I haven't received um any notes from folks saying they're planning to join so we might it might just be us but it's still value because what'll happen is we'll um have the meeting and then uh post the recording and people be able to people will be able to review that recording so that's that's good to have sounds good yeah uh I'm gonna give just one more minute and then we can run through things and uh we can we can talk about everything that's currently on the agenda and anything else we want to talk about related to LLCs okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "uh yeah hi muria and Warren welcome we have an Allstar um set of folks here today uh and thanks thanks for coming Laura adding to our Allstar roster uh I was just saying to Debbie that we'll wait maybe one more minute and then we'll get started I'm actually expecting this to be a um small and mighty group so um we can uh for the benefit of the recording and people who may be looking to catch up afterwards will run through the agenda uh as planned um but we can take discussions on whatever topic we want to talk about so um yeah we'll wait one more minute and I would encourage folks if you're comfortable to share video uh in the spirit of the ATF tools team meeting um the ideas to make this as close to a um around the table kind of conversation as possible uh and so that would be great if not that's also fine but U yeah okay well we're three minutes after the scheduled start time of the meeting so I'm going to just go ahead and kick things off welcome everybody um thanks to everybody who uh was able to make make it here in and as I mentioned before if you've been following along uh we'll just run through the agenda as we usually have it and then um we can take whatever conversations uh we want to have I have I will post in the notes sorry in the chat a link to the notes let's do it that way y sorry here we go voila okay it's there and um yeah so uh my name's Greg wood I'm the director"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "of communications and operations for the itlc um you'll see in the uh meeting agenda document which will convert into the notes document uh that the purpose of these meetings are to focus on LLC related comms uh so that is the sort of the operational level of comms work that we do at the LLC and support of the ITF and iib and the entire ITF uh community ecosystem uh comms in this context really means the idea of marketing Communications um and marketing Communications are different from the other kinds of communications that uh the ITF generally uh concerns us up with and uh welcome Carson I you join we're just kicking off um the uh the purpose of these calls is yeah like I said to get people up to speed on what we're doing on the LLC comms activities so um with that said I have uh put together this sort of very very draft document which is structured in um you know Hot Topics that for sure want to discuss some FYI um for things that just to provide General updates on um and uh yeah those are just my ideas so the very first thing I wanted to do is to say is there anything else that people would like to cover questions we can definitely we definitely have room in the agenda time to add any any topics that um you don't see yet covered but would like to make sure to discuss today and um yeah I am not planning to use the que uh feature so we're such a small group I think people can just jump in I will also always count to six when I ask a question like that so if I get to six and nobody's spoke spoken I will just continue on so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "I don't hear anybody so we'll just we'll just continue um I wanted to uh in the hot topics for discussion uh uh I wanted to talk a little bit about Journey map development this has come up before and the Carson has actually participated a long time ago now in a uh focus group for one of them uh this uh effort has kind of been it's one of those uh things that is important but non urgent so because there's never been a specific driver for it um and mentioned it in the last uh LLC comms um meeting uh we now have been uh talking about this for a while and it feels like we have a couple of things coming together to actually start moving towards um developing and sharing a little bit more broadly uh the user Journeys that uh we've been talking about um so uh I I wanted to just recap where we are what the thinking is on those and and uh answer any questions about them the first thing is just to talk about what a user journey is so a user journey is really it's a model uh for uh describing and understanding uh particular key um uh paths through various processes um that cut across time and also cut across uh channels so in things like Agile development there's the idea of us a story which is usually focused on a particular uh ux or interaction model um and user Journeys are are different from that because they will cut across channels so for example it might invite uh in in comm's terms it might involve email and a website and an app and in-person interaction so the idea is to capture all of those kinds of interactions and also the individual uh experience into a single place"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "um the second thing to say about them is that uh the the one of the key things is to pull out uh really the important exemplars of user Journey so you're not trying to capture it into being possible to capture all the kinds of interactions that all the kinds of users would have um in in with a company or an organization or a community so you're really trying to pull pull out those um ones that you think are key to the success of the of the organization or Community or or company and then and the third thing to say about them is that they're really models informed by data but they're not they shouldn't be confused for actual individual experiences like they're not they're not meant to be um uh true- toli descriptions of any particular one person's experience um and and uh and then uh the uh uh the idea there being is that U if you think about them again as models that are useful uh but not true um that that's really the way to to think about them so uh uh again uh they are describing experiences across channels in Time uh they are not representative of all experiences and even individually they're not pres of anybody's particular individual experience um but they are useful for understanding for example where there are gaps or perhaps um opportunities for improving that experience um so I'm going to stop there and see if there are any questions about the model because it's it's it's kind of important to set that um stage okay uh I did count to six and I did not count Beyond six um so uh we have three uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "candidates for uh user Journeys uh and they are um the potential participant the internet draft author um and a new working group chair so we've been talking about these in various context but we haven't yet brought them together into a a user Journey uh the diagrams are usually called Maps um and those are the three that we uh have um um sort of been pulling out um and there are a couple of questions I'll te up right now but then I'll I'll show you what the example looks like uh to give you an idea of how these translated into the map uh diagram uh the first one is are these sort of you know are there other ones that we should consider mapping out uh like are there key Journeys that individual will take through the itm process that would be super helpful to understand um where things are not working or we have opportunities for improvement so uh like for example one could be you know you're a new ad what do you do um uh or something like that um the second one is if these are the right second question is if these are the right um Journeys to be focusing on uh are there sources of data that we should for sure consider so uh for example in the ID author example there was a survey of ID authors um there was a we had a focus group and we have ongoing um uh information from the community surveys that we have every year uh so you know what are the sources of data that we should be considering considering and the third the third question I'd have is you know once we have models of you know examples drafts of these Journeys uh with whom would it be most useful to share so this is an idea that the the user Journeys are are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "models and um should be iterated on as you get more information to inform them uh and now I'm going to count to six and I'm also going to pop out hey duu uh thanks for joining we're just going through the Journey map development um so I think this will still work uh yep it looks like it's still St so this is an example totally unrelated to um the ITF but it gives a really good example of what a user journey is about and how can be useful um so uh this is a person looking to sign up for um uh healthcare provider and it shows uh for example the questions that person has at the various points in the journey it breaks up the journey into different um phases uh which is a common attribute of a lot way of modeling uh these kinds of Journeys it um talks about what the questions are that the the individual taking the journey has it shows uh kind of implicitly the modes of interaction uh and so like At first they're in front of their computer doing research and then they call for an appointment then they get a reminder on their phone they have the in-person interaction and the various follow-ups and then uh the real uh benefit here is that you can help identify what the what the pain points are that need to be addressed um or Gap and the opportunities so this is just a really simple example there are a lot of different ways of doing this to kind of diagramming um one of the common elements that isn't shown here is oftentimes there will be a an emotional map for various phases of the Jour Journey um so like people are confused or the person taking the journey is um uh upset or yeah so that that also informs the model so um um yeah so now"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "I'm going to count to six and I'll stop here and I'll I'll go back there's a link in the in the notes uh document so people can open that on their own um and I'll just those three questions I asked before you know are these the right models what are the sources of data and how should we share the initial drafts um once they're done and I'll just pause and see if anybody wants to talk about any of that I might count to Beyond six for this because there's a lot of questions there I know realiz okay well uh this will still be here if folks have questions feel free to shoot me um uh email or raise them on uh uh the admin discuss list is the right place to discuss this particular meeting at the moment um I'm happy to provide further um information again the next steps that I see taking place uh and a rough timeline um for at least the first two steps are detailed below um yeah uh I I'm I'm very hopeful to have at least one maybe two draft user Journeys that'll that'll include sort of the sources of data that we're drawing from for one toone conversations around um or during ITF 120 in July uh so hopefully I'll be able to find a few of you and um have some uh bar conversations or or or over beverage conversations about about these yeah okay um great uh I think uh that brings us to the fyis by the way Drew I asked um folks to Share info or share uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "any item that they would like to um discuss that isn't currently on the agenda and you could feel free to just drop that in the in the notes um document directly happy to do that okay well uh so we're on to FYI um so the first thing I you know there are three there uh the first thing I wanted to talk about was it.org updates um and the notes speak for themselves so I'm not going to talk through them all just to say again as as we mentioned last time sort of the pace of uh updates is um uh and we expect it to be much higher than it has been over the last several years um in part because we now have data to inform what needs to be updated so for example um uh ITF uh participant new ITF participants uh report that you know trying to understand the process is very uh sometimes difficult so we're going um we're looking at the um process document I know Dro has worked on or is worked on this um and there are a lot of um efforts around trying to make the uh often very very detailed and complex ITF process more understandable um especially to newcomers um and the other another area as I mentioned here is that the um technology section for example is out of dat and I know uh Warr and you've worked on things like keywords to help people try and find techn relevant work in the ITF related to Technologies um so yes Warren please go ahead Just Jump On In we're informal here so just actually as a note I have taken my previous um keywords presentation from 2017 and I'm going to be presenting it at the upcoming um iesg IAB Workshop thing basically being like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "this seems like a reasonable idea we should still do this because it's been you know seven years and we haven't that's all uh so that's really uh helpful thank you for sharing that I I have a question for you though if you don't mind which is uh what is your goal with the presentation and and and what do you mean exactly by keywords are they something that would be in data tracker or what do you think out let me quickly see so yeah basically we have the keywords um page which you have and yeah I'm suggesting it should be put into the data tracker and you know I have a um mockup of how that would look and so basically um you know maybe the existing page stays around as well you know gets updated but instead of it being I suspect that people have no real context around this so maybe I should back up a little bit so the keywords thing was originally something which I started pushing in 2017 and it was a way for working group chairs and authors to tag their working group and documents with basically tags explaining what the subject is um I actually have the presentation I could run it through it if people are sufficiently bored um and that seemed like it would be a reasonable idea but we never really productionize it um the people who who did use it thought it was really useful bunch of people at Google I pointed them out and like this is great um ATF 119 in Brisbane a few people raised this same problem again it's really hard to know what the ietf is working on and where and so um I'm suggesting that we should take what we started doing in 2017 and productionize it basically by putting it into the data tracker you know the management of the tags and keyword should be in the data tracker and then the um actual tag should show"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "up in data tracker as well as maybe on a web page did that make any sense or did I just like Rambo for a while and nobody knows what the hell I'm on about um it made sense to me but maybe because I uh uh was part of the Mischief before um so I kind dropped a link to the web page that you mentioned into the I can also run through the presentation if anybody once it's like six minutes but I don't think that you particularly are that excited by it and have I know sure that Laura and Warren and muria and Drew will see the presentation next week so if you want to in myself and so if you want to um spoil their surprise uh I'm happy to do that um whatever you like I don't actually know if Dro will see it because I think it's during the isg day and I don't know if he's showing up for that and Mir has already seen it many years ago all right right good point um yeah let's hold that as a idea thank you for the offer we'll hold that as an idea at the um in the aob uh meeting uh okay cool thank you War um great well if there are further questions about www.f.org updates let me know I know um one of the things that is coming down the road is that oh Maria yeah um yeah I'm actually I'm still wondering how I can happen like how so you rework the participation part is that deployed already or is this to be deployed some of it is deployed some of to be deployed I know you had worked on a document about bringing new work to the ITF and so um that is not yet um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "yeah I think that is actually deployed at least Jay sent me a link a few days ago yeah so so that that is part of part of the reamp but that was also my question it's like I mean there is a whole bunch of work needed on the web page uh I think generally we should try and I think that's what you're doing we should try to reduce the content we have there because there's a lot of application and it's really hard to find things so making things more crisp and shorter and whatever will help um and that's probably enough effort on its own but I'm wondering how we want to maintain the content and how we make sure we keep the content up to date and who should be involved in which parts of the website yeah yeah that's for sure something that we're always talking with Roman about and U and flagging things for for uh the ITF chair that um they might consider needing to take to the isg overall for the dubdub dub site anyway or sorry df.org site um so that's uh that's definitely something that we coordinate closely with the I with thef folks on yeah yeah um but you're exactly right uh keeping things streamlined and and non-duplicative and easier to read uh so one the um things that we've been focusing on is using simple language uh and trying to use tools like uh Hemingway to help us uh keep things simple in English um uh the other the other thing I wanted to share is that of course the there's an RFC that's about to be published about retiring the Dow so um making sure that we have one of the promises that that that document makes or implies is having a easy to remember single sing Le point of entry for people who are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "looking to participate in the ITF so it was always easy to say go uh you know go read the Dow the ITF well now that won't exist so or won't be maintained so we need something equally easy to remember the point forks too so yeah cool huh I I'm sorry I just uh got noted that I was booted so but hopefully everybody else is still here um uh collateral updates just we're finishing finishing touches are being applied to the 2023 annual report um I will say that uh thanks to work by Debbie the financials have been done I think uh probably not fast enough for her but in record time as far as my experience so um I think those are very nearly like officially done done um and will probably be announced separately but um the holdup here is actually related to this Technologies bit where um we usually try to have a a technology feature so I think the first year we did one of these annual courses web RTC because of you know pandemic and things like that and last year it was MLS because because there seem to be a lot of energy around that um so figuring what that is and trying to get people to uh help contribute uh to both identifying and helping to write the um content for it has has been sort of the bottleneck there um and relatedly we are um trying to come up with technology uh and Industry specific briefing papers and by that I mean like one pagers to relate what the ITF is doing to stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "that's going on in the industry um or in a particular industry so like a one idea has been to use working l4s as it relates to gaming because there's a lot of interest in the gaming industry like in um Steam and other kinds of things use l4s to improve gaming experiences so um but uh getting getting the people who are actually finding the the uh folks to translate the actual work into um technically correct but still understandable by non- technologists language is actually quite quite difficult that's a pretty pretty specialized skill so um if you know of any good uh writers who might fit that bill please send them my way I've been talking to three or four and um they're either not a good fit or the ones that are good uh are so busy busy that they aren't available so um yeah seems like a seems like a growth industry if you ask me any other questions about collateral okay uh last bit is meaning promotion so um as been mentioned a few times uh we're now actually working into doing promoting meetings more than one meeting in advance which had been the previous pattern uh we've already started to work with um folks around 122 Bangkok and 121 Dublin um the other thing I'll say is that for 120 we've been reaching to new communities so um there's been um we've had we have a local contact to help us do Outreach around the hackathon um in particular there's a project about the thread protocol which um Stuart chesher and his colleague presented at the last I open meaning and they're H having a hackathon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "project at 120 or in Vancouver so you know we're trying to attract attract interest from folks nearby to join that um and also in academic Outreach we've been working with someone who's very knowledgeable about the local University programs universities are or schools are out of session mostly but there are um things uh I forget what they call them but they're basically clubs or um societies that that are still active throughout the summer in Vancouver um so we've been reaching out to them to see if we can get some uh University students to get involved in we interested in the ITF and the hackathon so um General point being we you know we're doing more in advance and trying to reach more broadly to get uh um interest in ITF meetings Okay than to six um yeah and so now um the open discussion just basically uh I wanted to start with a question is there anything else that folks would suggest and again don't have to suggest now um but to make the um make these conversations more visible to the ITF Community or are there particular pieces of the community that you think um uh ought to be involved that aren't um and then we could do a better job reaching out to in a different way yeah so ideas for that always welcome feel free to send the email directly or um post them to the admin discuss list um and then we have two other businesses one is oh yeah can can you hear me I might be fading this is I think my fourth meeting of the day so I will try to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "speak up is this better can you hear me okay now I think it's actually just like bandwidth or something I don't think it's you oh I think I know I do know what it is it's it's cut it's um chopping right yeah yeah hold on just a second sorry yeah but for me Warren was shopping is well so it's uh for me for me we're chopping now too yeah it's a meat Echo problem I think yeah Dro looks fine the biggest microphone that's maybe it do anyway whatever uh can you hear me better now has that help no not at all interesting no it's the audio that's broken so it's a medal problem I think but Mia is perfect thank you perfect that is not good hold on here select my devices yeah they all look correct not ideal uh well I I apologize um yep well we're I think we're almost done on at least for my talking so meeting during ITF uh 120 in Vancouver uh uh I think in the past we've done side meeting and I think yeah that's right just we have to play telephone to get everybody all the information so pick your buddy and pass it along um uh okay so I'm I I there have been suggestions about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "doing a different approach uh to scheduling this meeting but um unless folks feel strongly about it I think I'm going to stick to the side meeting model and um hope for the best so if um again don't have to yeah it's definitely my fault um if um if folks feel strongly or think about it and say no no no we should definitely do something different let me know but otherwise we'll do a side meeting still I think there's still 24 hours before the announced agenda gets gets uh sent out sorry I was so much concentrating on the audio did you say inperson site meeting at the next meeting yeah yeah in person with remote participation yeah yeah okay yeah yeah that sounds good yes did we do one last time I'm am I forgetting or is this the first time we will do it uh I think you're right we did not do one last time in so this would be you're you're right I'm thinking about something else so yeah yeah I think we skipped it because of um maybe time zone I can't remember it's it's behind so okay so we'll go for side meeting um is there anything else anybody wants to cover I I am looking forward to Warren's six minute presentation on keywords uh so this is this is your 30 second warning Warren to get all that ready um in this case I actually drop off I've seen this already I might see it again and I have some more stuff to do unfortunately thank you very much Mary for joining taking the time appreciate it look forward to seeing you next week bye okay Warren I think I think you're up going to mute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "but you you are muted for me Warren yeah I can't hear you Warren can can you m the presentation Warren can you just MIM it for us is that what you were looking print out that you were looking for I think lated and keep it always that last that last bullet is uh you know app who who created this internet really I was talking to uh an Oldtimer the other day about the internet uh that they were involved in like in the early 80s you know and I said well you're the one to because I think it works can you hear me now y so what I don't know is with this presentation tool thing it wants to go full screen and I don't know if I can present that so instead we will just try this other solution which probably won't work um ask to share a screen you need to click some button somewhere I've never done that training approve it hold on yes uh oh I see okay there we go you want to share screen accept and I will share this so I'm not going to do full screen because that would probably just end badly actually let's humor me and we'll see if this does work oh maybe it does work all righty so um this is basically a presentation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "which I had done in the isgn formal in 2017 and I have updated it for now because I think it's still a real problem so basically what is this supposed to do um this is supposed to help solve the problem of people saying what's the ietf doing related to and insert your favorite buzzword here in 2017 it was Network slicing now I think it's AI or something equally equally entertaining and actually we had this sort of question happen um at the plenary in Brisbane where um Kor stood up and said you know I work in a bunch of different sdos and they would like to be able to reference our docu or be able to reference ITF documents but it's really hard to know what the latest RFC is or you know which particular rfc's are related to which area um I think the problem is actually larger than that it's not just which rfc's are related stuff but even more so what internet drafts are people working on and which particular areas and working groups are doing what um I have for do you want do you want comments and questions along the way or would you prefer to have them at the I think along the way is good okay so I want to add to your point about it's not just rfcs um in the context of trying to find where to do work people who who are new to the ITF want to know where you're talking about X and in a lot of our materials we say the first thing to do is to find a working group that or one or two but not more that you're interested in but you it's very very difficult to understand which working group aside from area grouping which working group is really working on this because we don't have these kinds of keywords so you have to look through the charters of all the working groups to figure it out yeah and also working groups are called things like date and you're like yeah that's an obvious thing for you know but yes sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "I didn't mean to catch you off yeah you're exactly the point like you can't even go by the names you have to go by the charters um so yeah this isn't only newcomers there's also people like David lamparter who's been participating for a while who says it's unnecessarily difficult to find the set of rfc's relevant to a topic and in both of these cases the isg sort of agreed with the comments so let's see if we can do a little better so what I think would be better is we build a set of tags um which we can assign to working groups and to drafts and when I say tags these are basically just keywords and what the hell do I mean by keywords well when you finally get your internet draft published one of the last things that the RFC editor does is they send you an email saying what all keywords would you like us to to attach to your document and many rfc's have keywords but they're fairly meaningless and nobody can actually find these keywords it's very unclear where they actually end up eventually I found them somewhere in the RFC editor site but like many people don't know they exist but seeing as we do now know that they exist what do they look like here is a word cloud keep in mind I did this in 2017 when word clouds were cool um and you know the keywords currently on draft sorry on published rfc's are things like protocol or Internet or in this particular case 47 um these aren't really helpful and again these only show up at the very end and are attached to rfc's and nobody can really find them so I think we should instead have tags and they should be attached to drafts and these tags should be more meaningful so basically you know a much smaller"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "somewhat curated list and they should also be searchable and display in a more useful thing so is this idea worth pursuing um I thought it was in 2017 and we tried slightly we I ended up creating a sort of proof of concept spreadsheet where I made this Google sheet thing and I listed all of the working groups and I sent email to working group grou chair is saying please find the spreadsheet and find your working group and list a bunch of sort of terms or words which are related and then we will use this to make a pretty page on the ietf website so I wrote something which took this spreadsheet which again was chairs filling in words that they think are sort of related to their working group and we made this page um which I stuck on my own site and then Greg nicely put it on the ietf website and it contains a bunch of things let me go back a thing like Auto autonomic networking is being done in the animal working group bgp is being done in grow and Cy drops and IDR authentications kitten emu Ace things like that basically places for people to be able to look and find where the work is happening um this was done very much just as a proof of concept and and obviously I didn't bother keeping up and chasing um chasing working group chairs so it's wildly out of date but ideally I think we' do something like this and have a smaller sort of curated list and also have these things sh up in the data tracker oh hey this is the slide I should have been talking to basically we make a set of default tags um which get assigned to working groups so for example everything in DNS op is about DNS chairs can come up with other tags that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "they can apply to documents and we should have sort of a master list um and ideally there'd be some tooling and then it shows up in the data tracker and here is a sort of mockup this would be something from for example the DNS op working group and so all of the drafts in DNS up would be tagged with for example DNS um the working group ones I've sort of thought in a lighter color and then chairs can apply more General tags so for example TLD was about special use names and policy stuff and aame is about DNS and redirects and C names and also um the aame document actually had an implementation so I think it would be useful for there to be sort of well-known tags that are things like implemented and again I have this in a different color because I think this is like a I ETF wide one or something similar um so basically I think this was an issue in 2017 and back then I was super excited to work on it and then I got sidetracked but I think it's still an issue now I also think that this is a problem where we can easily make a large difference for both current participants and also for newcomers and it should be fairly easy to do basically we come up with a list of sort of well known common words like implemented I think is a good example or you know this is deployed or updated um and then we ask the tools team to come up with a way that working group chairs can take this list of tags and assign them to documents and have their own list as well for their working group and I think that that is basically it uh uh waren uh in your mind when I remember when I filled it up I was thinking that these keywords are for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "keywords which apply much more broadly at the working group stage but right now what you are presenting especially at the last part you are thinking oh all the documents of this working group gets those stats uh sorry let me go back one I'm thinking that for certain working groups like for example everything in DNS op would get the DNS tag automatically and then the other ones would be individual ones applied by the chairs to the working group sorry did that answer your question right did I answer a different question no yeah this is right I understand what you're trying to do I'm just worried that this might not work for all the working groups like for instance some working groups what happens is they work on three Technologies Y and right now in the key keyword case what we have done is we thought that this is about like I want you to find my working group so I've put all the three taxs now what happens is if all the documents gets the three taxs while because I'm working on three Technologies that's going to be super confusing so it works for DNS because DNS is General but if I'm working on three different things then that breaks down a little bit so we have to just tweak it a little bit say something that like you know we can't just blindly do it but like T type or something we would need to know that's something which is more Global versus something which isn't and they were two different use cases as such because to me initial idea of the keywords was finding the working group and I think we need to differentiate the keywords of finding the working group and finding the document there should be two different set of probably yeah yeah okay cool any other comments just a question um you mentioned the work that the RPC does at the moment have you spoken to them recently about their thinking on keywords no I spoke to them in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "2017 and they at that time sort of largely were like yeah there are these things and we apply to them and we don't really know what anybody ever does with them because we stick in in the XML and then who knows um you might talk to them about I think that they're thinking has evolved a little bit on that um at least I didn't talk to them in 2017 but I know this topic is has come up recently um and in any case uh since if I understand correctly the idea is to apply the keywords consistently to rfc's as well as stuff that are not rfc's uh uh it would be good to to see where they are on so I was thinking hopefully the list of keywords would be use so maybe it's not they would automatically get applied to rfc's but there would be a good sort of starting point so maybe when the RFC editor gets it they're like here's some list of keywords you had do you want to keep those do you want other ones or you know maybe just the authors when the RFC editor says what keywords would you like the authors could go oh they were these ones I'll just copy them over but yeah um I should chat with the RFC editor that's a good point so I know I'm just finance and I know nothing about all the details that you guys do and and I'm very honored to even be around you guys but anyway um uh Greg had sent a link to the working group keywords from the website so I quickly was looking at that when you had that last um slide where you showed the example and I noticed that there's some of the and I don't know if those are real examples if they are there's some keywords on those that aren't on the aren't on the list of key group keywords on the internet I mean on the website is is it going to be a problem keeping up a master list if um so I mean this list was created back in 2017 so there probably many of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "them are out of date um I think that we would likely have two sort of lists one list being well-known tags that the I you know that the isg or someone has come up with and the reason that I think we need um sort of a curated list is if we look at the wherever it's gone um demo one I had right there's many different variations on a theme when we had the spreadsheet there were people doing like things that were wildly specific and then there were also like 40 different 47 different spellings of characterization or similar I think we' want like you know a curated list that people can select from and then they can also have their own working group specific ones um and I mean if a work if a keyword becomes we decide is not useful we can just scrub it from the list it's not that it has to has to exist still um I think they should be relatively Dynamic and people can just add the ones that seem useful and ignore ones that they don't but yeah good question thank you um in a I don't know if this is related in a possibly very closely related thing um I had started doing something similar in DNS op where you know we don't have it in the data tracker but the DNS op chair is um found this to be helpful and so this we have we just took a list of all of the drafts and we had started putting more just status tags on things which is for the chairs and working group participants to be able to sort of track what state the document is in this isn't really the same thing but I think they might also be useful things for us to consider"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um reason I'm kind of mentioning this is um these specific tags which we had applied to some documents are actually referencing things in the charter so for example our Charter says we can work on dnsr practices and maintenance so we had taged specific documents with bits from the charter but again this is more sort of I figured I would point at this as well so this is a combination of some tags for The Chariot to be to remember which particular things a document is related to and also the status but that's a a larger topic yeah thanks to Drew for the pointer in the in the chat to the PC work I there's a lot of interest in this Warren so I'll be interested to see what the conversation comes out um next week uh just for fun I asked chat GPT what the important rfc's related to DNS were um and the answer was quite long so um and and probably enti does it mention 1034 and 1035 uh does that the last one is 8482 so um yeah uh anyway um thank you very much for sharing or previewing the presentation that you're going to do next week um super interesting um is there anything else people want to talk about before we any no okay I counted to six again um thanks again to everybody for um joining thank you carsten um very much for coming along and um I look forward to seeing uh Drew and Warren next week and uh hopefully everybody in Vancouver um uh I'll send out I'm going to go through and clean up the notes uh clean clean up out uh sort of uh clean up the notes and then send those out along with the link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "to the recording once um that's posted to the admin discuss list which is the discussion list for this group so thanks everybody byebye see you"
  }
]
