[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "pick up eventually he seems to be facing audio challenges misters too who are you doing hey Eric yeah let me fish because it's my laptop for whatever reason so he did wrong webcam so you see an unusual view of my office and this is my office I've seen it before this one is a small widescreen though yeah and I hope that's two weeks on the sofa and not on his bed if you're on the sofa that's fine yeah the question is how long is it going to be before my cat jumps on my keyboard yeah okay uh so basically you're looking for an excuse for typing something stupid right ah Wise Guy foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "welcome to learn what we've been up to here good that you can come and greetings Jim [Music] yeah Justice in my audience it does work better right now [Music] yeah sorry for that I had to reconnect again so I think that she had problem with my yeah anyway um I don't see um Daniel connected yet I see Robert Adam I don't know if I'm going to call Adam's cell phone right now to remind him all right thank you sir and may I simply suggest that it's a very short thing not too much people in the audience uh that everyone turns on his video on their own will of course right and if you want to do it please do and to know the the mic as well again at your discretion Adam had misread the time of 1400 as 1400 Eastern as opposed to 1400 Zulu he will be on momentarily I had done the same thing unfortunately it came up this morning at the proper time frame because I was on the sheet call yesterday at the proper time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "for Eastern people eastern time people is 10 a.m right so that's quite a reasonable correct 10 a.m mid-morning just stick to settling things in UTC and then we can figure out from that from our local time zone yeah UTC doesn't mean Greenwich right because Greenwich time zone is changing compared to UTC well yeah but still yeah at least we all know how to convert our local time zone to UTC as opposed to Let's convert Eastern Seaboard time to UTC and then from there to local time I feel a rant coming on it's a better shop I can figure all the network devices with UTC and this drives my non-networker friend users crazy but I'm like look if you're going to run a Global Network it makes no sense to use local time for anything yeah and the fact that half the year I'm on UTC is my local time zone is just a bonus [Music] oh there he is just checking then you have to give audio and video when is your audio working it should indeed we hear you perfect thank you I think that we we can start right now so Daniel please if you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "I'm you don't see the slice do you we see the tighter slide so let me check I or maybe because I'm sharing share preload slides so I'm clicking on that yes but it does not become okay so I'm showing the okay do you see them yes you see your interim um title slide yeah now you see the notes well yay okay so we actually watching the same thing so welcome to this interim meeting and it's a new slide for you all please not the note well this is or say one for back uh wait looks like it's a PNG or so we can we can sure it doesn't change okay okay so the agenda um any agenda bashing Eric and not for me it's I mean the the drip oath and the summary three is the most important stuff to me of course and we need to get a minute taker on the edge dock though I'm sorry so it's too said he's gonna take two doesn't see that I'm watching him very I'm fixing him but we don't hear used to we don't hear you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "about now there you go yeah okay yes I am I I am in as Note Taker and so far I've just recorded who is present and that you have displayed the note well okay perfect next slide well this is what is new uh but I think we we discussed that before the session started um I mean Med do you want to add something nothing nothing specific to what is mentioned there so congrats to the working before publishing the um the red RFC and looking forward to progress the other ones yeah but we're moving okay so Sam that's a new topic for today yay and then um we'll see the next day yeah yeah I mean yeah so for yes please for the previous one so this is basically to see that yeah we have we have sent deletion statement and we all what we received the Knack from the uh from Phil from dstm and we hope that the um you'll make an action so we set the the deadline for the next July um by then if we don't receive everything we say any any follow-up or if we don't have any concrete actions I am afraid we have to to make a decision for um for the auton draft and the the others but we will discuss this one for in the previous in the next slide so that's next slide um anyone has any opinion on that so we know that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "um it Iko there's high confidence from Gabriel Cox that by the end of the week the process will be up and the portal will be open and Iko to actually make the requests for both Sam code points and session IDs so um that was we got that information yesterday yeah and then we should hear something back from that liaison statement this would be super super useful if we get any kind of official news about this right you've seen my email there will not be any group meeting in San Francisco if you don't get those code points I don't want to waste time from anybody here everyone knows the situation right so that's that's okay it is pretty pretty good news to them right so when I read this I was so happy I don't know how many of you have seen the emails that I have sent just within the past half hour but um on uh um I don't know a couple of days ago we got a thing saying that it would be up um within the week and then um yesterday I think we got a request for uh any updates to our uh registration request and um this morning uh we saw some back and forth with the one other request store who needs to provide some information that that you know we had already provided and the the draft of the specific session ID information is already online although it is online you just muted yourself Stu I don't know why it turned itself off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "um anyway um the the specific session ID thing is online I do not believe it is necessarily online with the interface that ultimately will be provided because right now it's just a link to a Google doc or something like that with a spreadsheet that has you know uh a header row and two more rows one of which is um our specific session ID type which it shows as having been granted um back in January of 2022 because it was in fact baked into the f3411-22a standard um but it was not actually you know in uh you know a registry even though it was in the standards document so that should be presumably within a matter of days in a uh you know a public-facing uh registry view of some sort and then what I have not seen is the Sam types and those of course are the things that were not baked into the standard and then we need to get assigned but um you know we have their assurances that that will be online within a week as well so that's all I've got yeah so we'll keep pushing it is that from the same person acknowledged in the liaison statement that came from Gabriel Cox who was the head chair of the f-34 um the working group not the chair of the uh f-38 committee so Gabriel reached out to us to make sure that the um the allocation for the identifier was good and then that was how we learned of the update that they were quickly moving forward so yeah I have not seen go ahead they want the contact information as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "yeah yeah I have not seen a formal response to the liaison statement request and frankly um I could Envision the formal response to the liaison statement request potentially taking months I think we're going to see the actual registry which is what we want sooner than we see a formal response on liaison well we're gonna have to just push really hard on to fill or why not and is that enough if we just see the registry or um everything that's I'm just wondering Eric do you wait for a response or if we see the registry it's going to be fine I mean the best thing would be to get a liaison statement back okay from ASTM of course because it fits all the checks and blah blah but as long as we have something from coming from sdma you got this this and this and this via an email or or whatever thing right that's perfectly fine okay and it doesn't need to be the form the liaison statement it will be easier uh but I mean let's be yeah yeah and we just need to be it public that means that if it can be sent to the mailing list that will be good and not just between all of us so that you can have a record about this correct we need to get a record of the allocation okay I think there will be me and Stu will push because allocation is being done in a world document it's not a website like this okay right you don't need whether it's a Google doc a Word document a sheet of paper an Excel sheet I don't and yet you've done that yeah but it needs to be done from the party or the Okay Google sheet is perfectly fine okay we will we will push me and Stu will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "push the buttons for the next then over the next week to get an actual answer from whoever needs to be poked okay so let's yeah under this move right so do we want to do DKI first or do we want to do actually that's the only presentation I didn't get I worked I was up just if I am late I was working up until two in the morning here it's 10 a.m now on my size I didn't actually upload my slides because I thought we were at 2 p.m my time forgot it was shifting time so if you don't mind if I can I can share slides yeah locally okay so okay uh oh I I can't I have to upload them now don't I or no I am I can share screen there we go sorry wrong wrong request yes I would wish to share my screen I wish to share this um all right um so so this is a lot about the arm time architecture but we'll go through piece by piece so first off I think we've kind of discussed through this um in the last 10 minutes or so so I think we're good here you switch to full screen on your end I should be able to how's that for you guys hey better all right so we've just talked about this a little bit um the updates um that is the current allocation naming schemes and whatnot for the session ID a lot of this will be just doubled over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "for um the Sam code points when we actually get them in um I guess the only question I have to Eric on this is the organ name is marked as ietf on that spreadsheet should it be more specific to say ietf drip um it looked like they also stole the org address to be the place in De which lines up with what the website says the ITF so I would assume it's more sending the question as well on the working group in English so again we play officially there yeah sure but it should be ietia because ATF drip hopefully in one year two years is this bandage right because Mission economics so there would be nobody anymore excellent so then what would the contact team most be then then the contact names because typically in this case ISD iitf.com but again send me an email I'll be reply to you with all these excellent sure yeah I just wanted to make sure we watched over this before it went out so yeah um so I think we're good on this so uh I'll talk about the recent reviews first the ones that I have seen um so the first one that came in was the DNS dirt review from Tim um these were his points across to thing the delegation of the domains is a request from the ieb so we have to have an ionic consideration section for it uh also for the RR type that we were going to have at the time the RR type wasn't actually in there it was just a placeholder that said there will be an RR type defined so he pointed us to what we I would need to do he caught a potential error on the prefix I'm going to look into that section 10 right he was wrong he backed off my point I was on a nibble yeah it was it was a Nimble problem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "um section 10 was very hand wavy um Bob pointed him to the DKI draft that had just been posted at the time so um I think that has been cleared uh 4.5 he wants to move he said it should be moved to the terminology section I have no opposition to that and then he pointed out that there are some terms that were not defined and should be added to the terminology section so I'm gonna parse through the document in dash 11 to make sure that that is done he was he had a problem with figure two with namings uh in the figure it should be acronyms and maybe making a second version of it to Mark the interfaces and then the big one was examples of what goes into the Registries as an appendix which I've made as a high priority action item the next review came from Bob uh over a list of I think four emails on the mailing list about the the previous review please sure go yeah I don't remember that you you have reply to uh to team about the various points that he raised on this did you consider to uh Bob replied Bob replied to it I have not I need to reply to him I I made note of all the issues and then I haven't actually started working on it and then replying to him so yeah that is online yeah thank you it would be a really good to to make sure that the modification that you will make would be aligned with what he is expected from his review I have said you can you reply from but it was specific to one of the um of the points uh yeah so please you can send him the um I would say your plans for the modifications and so on that should be really good yep I can do that yes and I'm working on how I want to request section 10 to be rewarded right yeah um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "regarding this review from dnsd don't forget the gym read is the secretary and the chair of the DNS dear and Tim is basically the DNS open D prime or DNS privacy working group so consider his advice it's very very serious hint and useful yes yeah thank you um his review is very good um it wasn't it was on the I think the official status was on the right track so I think that so that was really good um for us uh so Bob sent some through the mailing list as uh Med pointed out I did respond to at least one of the points where we started ping-ponging back and forth a bit um me and Bob actually had a conversation a couple days after because we had to talk about something else and we inevitably talked about this um but uh we had some back and forths a little bit over a zoom call so it didn't get captured in the mailing list I will go back and I will respond to the email more formally for a lot of this but a lot of his um text cleanup uh ended up in dash 10 the latest version um but I need to go back and make sure that I caught all of the text clinics um he me and Bob the reason we talked was because the DKI document had just came out and we were trying to Grapple as two authors what goes in what bucket um and a lot of this is just to remove uh Iko delegations to a minimum just so that the process is not as hard uh we know Iko is a big organization has 193 members so it is not easy for them to just stand up and say yes we can do something for you there's a lot of stuff that needs to go on in the background some of which we don't have the time for so we're trying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "to do that yes solo yeah I would just like to bring to everyone's attention that uh Salo de Silva of Iko has joined us so perhaps at some point later in the agenda we can invite him to speak thank you thank you for coming Solomon nice to have you here um so we're we're trying to be and that's thanks all this to for Bob because Bob is aware of how Iko is moving so we're able to kind of adjust our trajectories so that we're a little bit uh better off um and then two things here that were discussed in the emails were ra allocations and manufacturer code allocations which I'll get to later in the document um uh actually two days ago I saw an email from the upster um so they actually sent a review I noticed that there was a tsv art review as well um I haven't seen that go over the email I'm gonna go look for it after this meeting because I didn't see it um but there were four major things in that uh first off section 5.3 was under specified 5.3 is basically us saying there needs to be a name server of some kind but we don't give any details on how to do that but I make the note in the document that the people that will probably be reading this document are USS vendors they are not DNS maintainers they don't know how to run DNS servers so we probably need some sort of language in there to help them along um which um the upster agreed with 100 percent um and also you made a comment that the resolution is of the uas IDS and DNS is potentially life critical so we have to take that into consideration got it um section 6.1 was hard to parse for him"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "I agree uh I was working on dash 10 before his review came in and that is one of the major fixes is section 6.1 so it will need a re-review by him uh section seven he he I think he was saying it was incomplete I'm not quite sure but he was pointing out that the key management problems should be elucidated so we need to look at that section section seven is about the um the lookup the differentiated access process and then finally section eight uh he's like Iko domain sound like a type of TLD it's an action of I can if we are doing such a thing and then other DNS related items should be done with the DNS SME like DNS Turk which we had already gone through so that's good those are all the reviews I had I'm gonna need to look at the TV tvsr I'm gonna go back today and I will respond accordingly to emails um so that it's on the official list so thank you Med for bringing that up I will make that an action item for after this meeting so I'll move on to the organomes go yeah before moving so there are two other reviews the the first one about from the transport but basically they said the um the the document is okay from the transport on The View okay and you there is also the review from the security it was personally disappointed because I was expecting to have more I would say um deep review on some of the aspects that are in the document but the reviewers basically see that we are the document is just defined an error type and there are no major stuff to to say I personally disagree with him because there's a lot of aspects in this document that are really required I would say serious reviews from the security people to make sure that we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "really doing something we share which which is I would say good from from a security standpoint so I was easy thank you to reply to that to that review and to request another I would say Security review but finally I didn't meet it because I I appreciate that people they took their time to review the documents and to share it we may disagree with their it's good that this is no issues but I was not happy with that so I don't know whether we should we should go back and request uh I would say another round of review from the security directory Watson I work with Watson a couple other things so I can maybe Point some to some areas where he should uh because the kids chart guys sharp um for him to put his uh his thoughts too yeah that I hadn't known that there was a security door review so I'm gonna have to go back and find that email I said yeah you you can find them directly from the uh tracker you have all the review that we received so far so you don't need to um to go into the management still we don't hear you still you you are trying to attack but we yep I just wanted to bring to everyone's attention that we've been joined by uh Gabriel Cox of ASTM so now both Iko and ASTM are represented in the room so I suggest we go back to the previous discussion so I I can go back to here if that helps our discussion Daniel I'm more than happy to pause and let that happen so let me um first let me welcome um so Salo and Gabriel Cox and um um I mean we would we'd like to give you the floor if you have anything to say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "um I mean on our side um I think um but um uh Stu every please feel free to interrupt me um so we centeredly as a statement in basically what were you uh looking at is um a response um to the ITF mailing list it could be um that informal that I mean the allocation has been granted so I think that summarized what we're looking for to move the document forward all right and then and you're looking for that today is that what you're looking for today no no no not today um but I I mean um I mean as soon as possible it would be um yeah so so the and I'll let solo volunteer as much as he wants in that regard I mean I mean the the red the registrar from what I could tell on execution I'll say this from an outside perspective to Ako I mean it appears the the operation of the Porto is imminent um I've been talking with the individual that's been um working on on deployment of it and getting it working and from what I could tell that it's it's going to be imminently up probably within a few days I would expect okay you show me a demo of it operating and stuff like that and so there was just a little final there's little final tweaks that was made in some of the verbiage and things like that that was being done over the last day or so and I think he's seeking out some final approvals to go live uh solo if you want to add to that that that's my impression so far"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:06",
    "text": "someone should accept solo so you can yeah yep there you go Silo Europe yeah no just to confirm what Gabriel just mentioned to you guys the system is a red uh done we just need to launch it uh it will be launched by maximum the end of the week so everything is going according to the schedule so I have no uh no issue so far so we work together myself again gab and some of my stuff and the systems to be launched by the end of the week with both capabilities okay next one okay thank you very much So when you say it's going to be launched it means um um I mean um the allocation is going to be granted but um what kind of response do you see for the ITF so the the if you recall for those who have read nx5 the the um tail end of nx5 has um uh design a design designated expert review and and the initial bring up I'm gonna perform the role as a designated expert that'll do the review on the inbound and so I've already prepared um Iko that are the first customer of the systems probably going to be ietf is the day it's launched they're probably going to have the first things coming in and I'm going to be prepared to do a same day review and and uh and I expect to authorize them as I already know what's coming so I expect to authorize them as soon as they come in so that's that's what I'm expecting so I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "we we've got like the the uh the SLA that's going to be in there is going to be like a one month SLA is is going to be like the guarantee time or something but um but I know you you guys have some urgency around that and and uh it and it's I don't think any of them gonna are gonna take a month it's just that's what the SLA is but in terms of what I'm planning on doing as soon as that hits I plan on reviewing and and I'm expecting to confirm your request I believe it's going to be four IDs you're requesting in finance yes so I'm already expecting yeah I'm already expecting what that's going to look like in awesome okay I think I think you've done the head of work ahead of communicating what what that's going to be and all of that so there's not going to be anything strange that hits the registry when it comes from you enough I say that affectionately of course okay Jim I mean I don't know how to give you um the mic better I think you can take the mic yourself no yes he can yeah my question was just about products and practicalities here if we're going to get into some kind of arrangement or understanding with the Keo about your piece of this EQ register do we need or should we have a formal liaison officer appointed and see how they check it is so this the two Registries we're talking about right now Jim are ASTM has a formal agreement with I KO icao to run the Registries for ASTM this has nothing to do with the ietfs Registries at this point but my my opinion is that it it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:06",
    "text": "um in fact we've discussed I think Aaron has been discussed in this capacity in your group in the past and it'd be very similar to Aaron I mean if if you see yourselves um getting needing to get numbers on a regular basis or something perhaps that would be the case but if you see this as kind of a fire and forget you're going to do this this time and and you know what you're going to do with the range of numbers you're going to do I I don't know why I would spend a lot of time setting up Liaisons I mean it's just going to be a transactional process and that and those numbers will be assigned indefinitely um yeah to ITF once they're granted so if you allow me to speak with my area director uh head on this one and they're real you are perfectly right so we don't need an official liaison people or liaison between iatf and accio istm for this uh simply an email or web page or whatever very informally or just you say buy and forget is completely enough for the ATF side of it engine by the way it is a good question to be asked right but yeah the answer is yeah yeah I mean because if there was a different Arrangement where there was you had to touch base with things or you had to um keep updating them with things you you could very well have a different situation um exactly that's for instance with three gpp or itu where we get long-term relationships right we keep a liaison person and official thing uh but like this one or for other stuff we this might play out on the Ikea side of things I mean I've seen this situation happen in another international organization I won't see which one but the reaction was who are these ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "people they're not even members why are we talking to them who the hell do they think they are so I'm trying to avoid that potential scenario maybe occurring it shouldn't happen given the fact that a close relationship with Salvo and his colleagues but I was just trying to think along those lines in case that like we have a bit of problems and that's a good point too and um and so ASTM has has given instructions to IKEA and in in terms of how the um the requests are approved and and absolutely there's no requirement for like an Iko membership or something like that for them to make an approval if that were to happen then when then then we would have found a KO to be the wrong choice for a register registrar we would have to go find another one um but uh the and in fact there's not an ASTM membership requirement either for that matter there's just a designated expert review and um and the designated expert has the authority to accept or reject um that I think Ikea could could reject it if you didn't fill in the information you're required to fill in there's there's some Fields you got to fill in and they they have a kind of a um a form that needs to be properly filled and if it's not filled in or something or most things are left blank there might be a reason for them to reject it but outside of that um it wouldn't be following I wouldn't be following the letter that we sent to KO so I I don't expect that to happen in this case okay any other um yeah bub ble speak your decision no mic on turn your mic on Bob so I think on the ietf side we we know where we are I don't see any additional questions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "from outside um on your Ico or ACM side are there anything you'd like to clarify with us I and and I I just wanted to um uh probably a just ex Express that the acknowledge and express that the frustration of how long this has taken is understandable and and also the um the reality of what these things takes are in how much time they take and and particularly on more so on the Diplomatic side it does on the the technical implementation side uh yes but that that's kind of how these things work so that I think that's a reality of how they work and it's also frustrating and understandably so but but what I wanted to impress on everybody is once once I've seen technical implementation begin I've been very impressed with Iko and and those responsible um to to plow forward actually quite quickly um in terms of implementation um so and and I'm quite confident and um on the path that they're on regarding implementation as well um solo and Anton and those who are who are who are putting that together they're doing a real good job and a speedy job at that on that part of it I'm having mic problems here do you hear me oh yeah okay yeah I I think Jim was going Beyond this uh ASTM um AK Iko to items that that Adam was getting ready to talk about in a larger Iko and I also point out that uh um I ietf does have a place on the Iko"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "trust framework panel and that may be uh some of how we maybe get some of the rest of this work done maybe but that's all I wanted to say and uh yeah okay okay do we want to continue thank you or I left the offer all right zoom zoom zoom zoom this is where we left off all right so these are the working items for the registry stuff so this is stuff that I'm currently working on and is currently going through some flux in the document and especially in 10. um so in 10 in discussions with Bob which we will forward into the list and have more discussions on but this is a first cut um the ra allocations or pre definitions I guess is a word we could use so the justifications the Iko process is long because it needs to be and that's fine um so we want to try to predefine what we can so that ietf and other things can just catch up later um and make stuff move forward so for this reason the Raa space has been carved up um the Apex so you can see here this is the breakdown of all the the numbers of all the Reas and you'll notice we have uh two new ones uh two things areas ISO numeric codes and manufacturer code authorities along with experimental um and we make it so that the RAS are allocated in groups of four uh to keep on nibble boundaries um this is for DNS data delegation because we split the nibble in half and that was a dumb mistake and that's on me I was the one that chose that and I kicked myself and I will continue to kick myself until the end of time because I did that um so that's what this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "um so the iso numeric codes Bob had an epiphany while working with the DKI and the IIT iatf the trust framework stuff that there are ISO codes for countries and we were going to have caas run raas so why not use those and then map them into the Rea space so we took the numeric codes and we came up with a conversion which you see here on the screen to allocate ranges of raas four of them per each CAA um there are we were already using ISO uh we wanted it for text abbreviations so this just naturally is an extension upon that and we can jump start the deployments and um Bob's DKI draft gets a little bit into this of how this jump start can happen and an example two examples are on the bottom one for an encode and one for a decode so you see 840 gives us for our AAS of the 3360 to 3363 and then if you have an Rea like 1105 by just dividing by four you'll get 276 and 276's Germany's um ISO code so we've mapped all of this into the space and it's densely packed um in the area there's more in the document as well to explain what the iso codes are and how densely packed it is um the manufacturer code authorities so this is because we want manufacture each manufacturer code from anti-cta to have to have the potential for an HDA associated with it in just one but there's one million three hundred and thirty six thousand three hundred and thirty six different combinations of a four character base 34 code so we need 82 raas at minimum to have all those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "hdas and this is a way to take the four character manufacturer code convert it into basically a hid an rehda pair and Back Again so it's just done so there doesn't need to be a mapping service anywhere it's just a calculation uh uh any questions on this or I I can keep continuing I shall continue all right uh the final one that I Mark here is experimental so the experimental range or the last two allocations the Rea range um and we mark this for drip specifically the working group so that drip experts run either res or HDs or a combination of them for testing um Bob has already started working on the DKI stuff in a little bit allocating for this range uh I need to slot myself into it somehow um I think for our testing ax um and part of this is the upper allocation the upper four that we are in this range are for the drip working group to temporarily hand out to a business say like Google who wants to run an Raa and test to make sure their stuff works before they go and get an Raa value or allocation in the actual space and so that's what this area is about uh the new resource record type was added at least a very rough cut of it uh we're thinking about it being C bore encoded uh it's basically a derivation of the hip resource record just with new Fields added the abbreviation the URI the endorsement an active flag and the serial number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "um there's some questions on how the endorsement gets marked as expired I think it's just the whole record gets marked as expired and then I make a statement claim here that all other endorsements or x509s or insert records in the DNS um this is something that is been going through a lot of different variations over the past two or three weeks so it was hard for me to lock something down because just in my head it's been hard to manage um so hopefully everyone can review section 8.1.1 and next week not next week two weeks from now we can have a more in-depth discussion on this as people kind of digest what's there yeah please if you if you can just uh wrap up in one or two minutes to give the opportunity to present his because here in the next entry thanks okay so this last section this is my last slide actually so section 6.1 had a rework um this was even before the hopster review um so I cleaned up a lot of the text I made subsections for each of the different uh Mo um supported scenarios that we would want I added figures and then there is some overall debate how does this fit in the DNS where is the Apex who runs the Apex who owns the Apex uh and but once that's sorted delegation should be straightforward we have the format so that's all I have for the updates of Registries I will hand it over to Bob um if there's no immediate questions but I'm more than happy to punt this into the next interim so that we have a more in-depth discussion and I'll take over I was working with uh draft 09 to try to get some test stuff up and I couldn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "for resale go to here and the next slide kind of gives where I ended up being next slide we're at the political level or are we maybe higher at the religion level uh as I'll be getting to these are old discussions this is from Carl Malmo with Stax books I don't know Eric if you uh had an encounters with with Carl back in the early days anyway um this is the real Stax model and this is what we're dealing with we're looking at how we put policy on top of Technology so let's go forward so why they do this I tried to implement a test environment and I couldn't because there were lots of unknowns and there were no tools and I discovered some potential security risks and that's due to my own not fair thinking back in the early days of we started this process next slide so now we have two documents um and what I'm doing is keeping it's currently what's missing in Registries um I like to keep Registries to the technical matters to reduce the work for completion and put implementational matters here in DKI which may take time to resolve I some of the things I have in DK right now Adam has put into the the 10 release so my sixth release will be deleting those sections referencing what he did but what I found trying to test was trying because there were no open tools for creating debts there are no open tools for creating endorsements and note their understanding of what the contents of these resale records and there's no way to do it except me so I had to learn some python so if you see what's up there in GitHub if it looks kind of snaky please do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "better anyway so now we have something and Jim was kind of the test set up a testing DNS environment he said drip testing.org with um the question is is there an apex under drip testing.org with ra or is it all a reverse um IPv6 our undergriptesting.org this exposed some serious delegation requirement a need for the um the um assignment and delegation procedure um in the end Iko cannot be expected to step into this in time if we want to do this for people who want to test in the next couple of months we have to be honest with with the Iko process um and uh so going to the drip Registries authors wanted the simple reverse nibble I'd be six output structure I wanted something more grouping off of an apex structure um and with the infrastructure stuff going um this infrastructure it would still be under our book um impulsive challenges finding the management entity it doesn't matter like which way you try to cut it it's still the magic entity uh back a little bit still Daniel he was a little too fast for me um and uh um I'm going to go with with the ip6 arpa but with reservations because it just flies straight in the fast of problems with the IPv6 ip6 delegation next slide and Bob if you don't mind just without any hat here Apex is going to specific meaning in DNS so why would you like to use Apex as opposed to something else which is more meaningful the reason why is we've been using Iko and I think that that gets too political uh we need something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "else there and and and uh um do so let's use h i t since that's what I call the thing and that maybe what we may end up doing is called hhit um for the uh for the Apex uh so that's I have Apex in the thank you um Eric um we'll start we will be working our nomenclature accordingly okay so it is more like Apex is a place older for something else coming okay yes yes I mean thank you um Salo um love working with you I know what you're up against and so we gotta be careful using Iko in our documents uh uh so the trust in key handling everything I've been talking since 19 since 2019 has had three levels of endorsements and it's flawed it's flawed because the HDA needs to frequently sign the UA debt endorsements and that's a major security risk um and this is why in in x509 pkis we've always had an intermediate CA not the root CA doing the signing but intermediate doing the signing so what I've created is what I call an issuing level added to the HDA but not the Raa level I don't think I need that uh it's next slide um so as a result of this I released we need to clear designation endorsement types and Hiking with three labels and authorization um endorsement and issuing endorsement and an operation in endorsement that's explained in the introduction section of this document what these three are the authorization issuing is the new risk mitigation piece I move the frequent science something called issuing if it needs to be reissued it doesn't kill things if the authorization got compromised or would that be painful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "I also talk about how these things can actually be done how to do the risk mitigation and how to do this signing process I have lived of x509 um signing um I've I've talked to people who had had the Auditors on site doing this I want to try to avoid that and make it a virtual operation so I've been looking for you know looking at at lessons learned in the past 25 years how to do this without the pain this does impact the broadcast grid trust chain Transmissions we've always have shown in auth three levels that changes when we actually say that there's a risk doing it that way next slide and then we come down to the missing Apex that you just talked about there Eric what entities to function as the drip Apex and it came out don't look Tire kale to easily step into this role in a timely frame and I'll give you the lessons learned that the iatfpki has a bridge CA doesn't exist yet the FAA and Euro control want to get on with the swim testing and moving forward they are crossed they have cross-certified they're not waiting for a bridge to be brought up because they have business to do um why do I think that we'd be able to be more successful than them uh we need an alternative so there are three Alternatives which are discussed in the draft a trustless of raas I recommend this but a little issues on how to distressless and no Apex in off Transmissions as a result once you got this list distributed another way is to to the RAS to cross indoors much like what FAA and Euro control are doing it has an n-squared"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "scaling problem but can be acceptable for initial testing or an RA Bridge as what's in the iatf pki but then back to who runs the bridge so these are discussed in the draft please review them and I'm going to move forward with with the trust list for now um this simplify the ra assignment process that Adam just spoke about um using the uh the iso 3166-1 numbers surprise surprise I went digging and found out there is an official un numbering for each of the nation states and we have the CTI codes that we can get to an official manufacturer our HDA allocation and it is the test raas but I know there will be others because there are Regional agencies involved as well I've mentioned Euro control twice where would Euro control potentially fit into this um the Apex needs to be non-political to get this done um and if Iko is really not the is can we set up a very good well architected um environment such that I am or I can do this this is why I want to take this discussion into the DKI which can take time to resolve and let's get Registries done next slide also there are some in the aviation that really really want x509 certificates they do not like my nice tight endorsements that our team has developed so how to do this as a backup to the DKI and as light as possible and you'll see two different models two different profiles for x509 in the document and Note and notice about that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "the peak kicks certificate certificate requests um is come here for your call for the debt registration those who really want to use x509 can use that and create all the debt structure as well maybe even using Acme um that's one of the things which are discussed here well I mentioned I have two profiles provided already in the document and the light one is uh of interest to one vendor I'm speaking to um so how much of this should be moved into drip Registries um this gets to section 10 interrupt Registries and I will need to sort that out there's another item I have in there section five in the pki and that's why I talk about actual um integration with the IQ iatfpki and this could be a major move forward grip because it will get us involved in general aviation or having our x509 pieces in the iatfpki um the debts in iatf would be ecdsa certificates which is not hard to do with hierarchical hits by the way um that would leverage um the debt and DNS for iatf and my conversations with FAA I have more conversation with them they are really interested in this as they're hitting up against issues in their certificates with DNS items um and they want to be able to use these certificates for air-to-air communications and they have problems with the certificates they have right now for that process but also as I intimate actually have our debts with eddsa certificates in the iatf and uh this is more future with there's discussions in progress on just kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "giving use of where my thoughts are going and why I'm looking at this DKI document may take some real time to get done and and how we work in the uh in the total framework of the total iatf which is the trust framework the international Aviation trust framework and how we fit into that so I am um thanks to Salo having uh brought me into the to be able to do it so now in conclusion this document grew out of filling gaps in Registries and part of this document now be sliced out because now it's in Registries um is every so it's not the question is now is everything now addressed in both documents is there anything we haven't included one way or the other and now as I just want to sort out what belongs where what gets what gets moved to Registries where it gets moved to DKI um get your Registries moving to last call because it will not be burned with issues which we can't answer right now and the DKI take on the hits for that because it will take more work to get that done so this is like a a splitting of the various parts between what is can be technically done quickly with Registries and then what is going to be in like how do we actually build and deploy this and let that go in more a more um rational pace and that completes my slides and open for discussion yeah Adam please take the mic yeah uh so I'll just say one thing on this and this is kind of why I've been working a little bit with tandem with Bob privately on this because when the DKI was presented to me my immediate major concern privately was if we're doing this Registries needs to be very technical in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "nature and decal needs to be very political and process focused in nature and the DKI or not the DKI the Registries should be technically broad enough that anything we want to do in DKI can be done so that is kind of the back and forth that's kind of been happening I think we've reached a good middle ground on that um I don't think there's anything in Registries that causes DKI not to do something correctly but then again DKI can just update Registries and go yeah there needs to be a new process here it is right or new way to do thing something here it is so I I don't think there's I don't think there's any problems I just wanted to point that out that that's where I'm coming from with this like how do I create debts that use ecdsa Point compression um RC 9480 do I have to put something in Iana considerations for that to happen and put that in in the DKI document that I don't have the answer to yet but it's one of the things which I'm looking that I may have to do for the crypto agility portion okay um I think we're a little bit of a time but I'm wondering if we have anything uh that that cannot that should be discussed now as opposed to the next interior meeting um next interim I'll be in hot Daytona Beach"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:03",
    "text": "Med I'm wondering do you want just to add something before we conclude further accounts we can hear you yeah ever since yeah I don't have any further cameras to add to that for the moment okay right so I think we can adjourn the meeting and thank you everyone to attend that meeting that was a useful one yes thank you see you next time for setting this up and thanks uh Gabriel and Salo for coming that was very helpful our ad is very happy okay cheers bye yeah thank you thank you very much everyone bye thanks guys we'll see you in two weeks see ya um sorry"
  }
]
