[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "yeah I popped on early just get some coffee excuse early risers here or it it's very warm here so I'm actually not really into coffee drinking now there's always iced coffee I suppose yeah but I don't have one hey John hey Hank good morning everybody hey Andrew Casey hi everybody hey quick quick warning I'm I'm basically returning for my effective um summer vacation so I'm absolutely oblivious I try to help as best as I can thank you for joining okay well uh I guess a few of the other folks would join in a minute or so um John should we okay good to see if anyone knows more about the deep deep Bomb Group uh well um thanks to you dick and Ole um I think we have some contacts established so we will hopefully see them in a future conference call and they will explain us on what they do yeah I'm pretty good it'd be pretty good to find out um if if it if it got any attraction it's very similar to you know much of what skit is if it got any attraction and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "um it's very interesting that way and uh yeah thanks yeah I've met those guys before I mean following d-bomb since it first got into um Linux Foundation um so it would be good to get an update there there is a very significant difference um between us which maybe may be bridgeable may not be um is that if you look at the diagram the d-bomb structure it looks really really like ours but in the detail the the need for each organization to host their node and then they're setting up of channels is cryptographically and mechanically very different to the concept of having Sovereign receipts um so it's it's an interesting one I mean if we if we can map their channels to our feeds or something like that I think it would be really interesting but I'm not sure that's the direction they were going in I'll give you all Maddie's uh you know yeah yeah midi's already replied so he's happy to come and present we just need to pick up um I think especially as that's a sort of special guest in liaison thing we have to be super careful with um uh the reminder we got about organizing meetings in advance so I think we need to have two weeks notice so we could potentially selfishly I don't want to suggest this because I'll be on vacation in two weeks but two Mondays from now um we could schedule him in that would be that'd be good um and if you want to wait till you're back I mean yeah I just I don't want to hold things up for the rest of the group but I would quite like to see it so yeah yeah you should you should definitely schedule it uh when you also have time right um and of course like we did in the past we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "talked to other groups as well uh so anyone who works in that space is obviously welcome to share what they are doing apparently there are lots of projects anyway yeah I'm shooting off a debunk project but it's not like I don't know expert so and they're about to release a version too okay that's good to hear Ray uh yeah well I just didn't want to interrupt um I think uh what would be very useful despite any differences that John mentioned is uh above the API like how what kind of data are they submitting um to their you know their machine and um uh maybe we can do that before we get any uh you know before the we get someone to present it to us uh because that's what I would find interesting is I would like this to know more about the like we have this one one uh idea from a dick in terms of the vendor response file something like that like as many as we can find how they're how they decided that they that they're actually using it that's what I think would be super delicious to see thank you right you actually Ray you wanted to work with um with dick on this when the response file or whatever whatever you want to call it uh did you make some progress on that uh well only to the extent of just pulling in his information and trying to recognize what um I'm trying to trying to blend what he seems to want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "have and what other people tend to be saying that the skit machine actually is at this point um and um so I I think we made a little bit of progress uh I created the a just a a document to try to to pull in all the information and and I did an initial round there and I there was some submissions to the list including the d-bomb information uh and then that I will put in there um and then any information we can get about the d-bomb um files that are similar to The VR f um then a response file then that will provide more information and and if we can get as much as possible then then at a certain point um it'll kind of it'll be ready to push over the cliff and um resolve I think in you know like looking at well I better not go too far but uh yeah I think we're making some progress and at some point um either today or any other time I can just show you what what I have if anybody hasn't read it thanks could Hank so I'm I'm aware of Chris's um debum activity for quite some time now and um I'm I'm I find it very interesting how um the direction changed a little bit so now it's basically a pub sub service for the um uh contributors uh to the um um information exposed and that's fine I I understand how subscriptions work I don't really understand why a uh publisher is called a commit uh probably because they assume there's some verifiable data structure providing some append Only log do you need that and I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "it seems to me as it's uh as trillion it was highlighted I think at some point I don't know if it still is as an example um that skit would be uh the the bomb could be a vehicle for for using a sketch uh transparency service for example so for me it seems um these are orthogonal Concepts um and and that might be interesting to our explore but um but uh that that might also delve into hackathon and and testing run so uh so yeah I agree with John that we have to uh make some um uh timely invitations also do you have a critical about an audience size and and then and go from there thanks I I note in the meeting minutes that you support the inviting that the group okay um but we should uh jump to our agenda uh John um I believe we said that we would be looking at the issue tracker and see where we are is that fine yeah we need to we we need to look at the issue tracker and we definitely need to get some updates on the feed if I'm going to reorder in the minutes for the few seconds that we actually do that this time because we didn't get to a tall did you okay uh well um I have fighted a few issues uh in the GitHub so maybe I can briefly glance over them and see whether there's some uh immediate reaction I posted it to the meeting list as well but uh uh didn't got any feedback so as I was reading through the architectured argument um I noticed a few inconsistencies um and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "I would like to highlight uh a few of those for example uh issue I copy that into the chat window so this is one issue um so this is the the aspect of um the terms that are used throughout the document so there's the term auditor consumer and verifier uh used and I think he would be it would be good to um combine them because they is they at the level of the protocol they mean the same thing in my opinion uh maybe maybe I'm oversimplifying but it gets tricky the document gets tricky to read if you if sometimes sort of one term is used and then sometimes Another one not so well defined top in in essence um there are some entities that uh query the the log and do something with that information and that could be in in some cases could be an auditor or it could be a consumer of course they care about different aspects and that can be discussed in the document um but it would be just easier to to read the document so that was one there was another one uh I copy that that's the the issue of harmonizing the terms issue and client post that link in the chat window too um there the issue is the issue is the one that um creates the sign statement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "and then uh the client is used to actually refer to the protocol that sends the signed statement over to the transparency service however um it's not there's no specific requirements imposed on the on the actual transport per se um like of course there's the API and so on and so maybe maybe the client would be a term that could be used in the API document client and server while the architecture type speaks about an issuer well otherwise distinguish them in a in a convenient way and then the last one I want to bring up was the uh the issue of sign statement versus the envelope another copy that one and do the chat window too um so the document is a little bit maybe that's a leftover from an earlier version of the document um the text talks about the envelope uh sort of wrapping sort of as a reference to the whole structure that includes the sign statement but it's I think only an a technical artifact or maybe a leftover from from earlier days of the documents um but ultimately what the sign statement um is is just a cozy sign one and get that gets sent and so talking about the the envelope there is just confusing uh it's another term that just appears in the text and and you just wonder where it comes from and if you and I I had difficulties sort of like I don't want to go ahead and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "proactively sort of rip out terms and merge terms and go through the whole document and to replace them if I don't get any feedback um on any of the issues that I just mentioned uh because they have some some effects throughout the document if you replace a term with another one I independently from from the issues above I tried to clean up one section and I sent a uh starting a pull request on on Section six it's not finished yet uh but yogish already gave me a little bit of feedback so there's this so from an implementation point of view um there is the need obviously to for the issuer to create these sign statements uh and then to issue and send them to the transparency service and and that's that's perfectly fine so there's some text I cleaned up some did some wording uh changes nothing nothing dramatic uh maybe editorial cleanup but then um and actually you can see that if you look through the CDL text in there there talks again about the envelope uh that I mentioned a few minutes ago and it also in my opinion it um it tried to collapse the the concepts like the sign statement and the response from the transparency service which includes the uh the receipt as well in the in the transparent statement so and that that was I think that could be separated out a little bit clearer by just saying like the first step is issue a creates this sign statement here's the structure how it looks like and then again the transparency service does some processing and then it sends a response back and here's how response looks like and I think what is done today is in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "document that has been submitted is to collapse the two which I think makes it more difficult to read uh but maybe this is just in in my opinion uh so in that sense I would appreciate your feedback on this too specifically if you read through it think about how someone would want to implement this um in in terms of step by step so and so so that's what what I was trying to do here like trying to create this um make the steps a little bit uh easier to read at least from from my point of view okay uh take sorry if I didn't realize that you're on the Queue good that's quite all right Honest no problem thank you uh dick Brooks Rea so first thing I want to say is that I think the first issue you raise is is one that is being discussed now and it's been an issue within the software supply chain for a long time and that's the ambiguity of roles um you mentioned a few of them there but there are others that also create similar ambiguities uh the the the US uh sister group that's working on a document called cict supply chain risk management task force is actually working on some definitions for these various supply chain rules and they're not ready to reduce or publish that information yet we're waiting to get some feedback from the state procurement officers and some more Federal uh inputs before we go forward with you know providing a public view of what those Define roles are and this is an area that as you know is going to have perhaps as much discussion as this whole software identity discussion so that that's coming I don't and I'll let"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "the group know as soon as I can when those role definitions are available for review it may be useful for this uh secondly uh I wanna uh I wanna say uh thank you to Cassie Crossley for joining this effort Kesley is a long time uh s-bomb uh contributor so to have her in this work group uh is going to be beneficial to helping us work those software supply chain issues and thirdly I'd like to say uh Ray you you did a great job of getting us started on the API topic it's an area that is fundamental to the purpose of skit and so I I think we need to we do need to spend a bit more time making sure that that API is defined and and is serving the purpose that we wanted to serve within this skit architecture and ecosystem so that's all I had thank you definitely or at least speaking for myself only uh interested uh in looking at the terminology as you pointed out I I struggled with that a little bit as well uh it would be good to harmonize it with what other people do and basically create the links so we don't have to do everything ourselves um and uh yeah uh also thanks to Casey for joining that's excellent um if you Casey had some feedback on the document uh it will definitely help us to make it um easier to read for different communities so we're always looking for someone who looks at it with fresh eyes obviously there are a couple of people on the call who have been very deep into the trenches so they probably don't even notice any issues anymore um because they have been working on it for so long so that would be that would be very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "helpful for us Sean do you want to say something uh yeah so on on that I mean clearly everybody reviewing and certainly fresh eyes reviewing is great um to that end I've got a new person my engineering team looking at looking at the specs seeing if we can Implement from first principles um you'll remember we managed it last time um but that was a very sort of low-level deep implementation um so so we are doing that on our update with with anything else that comes along one thing that's really sticky um that I've noticed and I think ori's or he's not here today so um he probably has the strongest opinions I think might also have some um your suggestion of harmonizing client with issuer is a bit tricky um but not not because of your suggestion but because we use issuer in a slightly odd way I would suggest in places where people are used a pki type systems will not be very um uh whatever it won't resonate with them I suggest um so there is potentially a very big change to make there if we want to be harmless harmonized with with those communities otherwise um yeah we need to be much clearer I think there's a job for the skit.io site to maybe have a much higher resolution cleaner diagram that we're able to do in RFC text ASCII art because it is um John I think he would be like and for me it would be useful feedback to say like I would like I scrambled down notes on on literally on paper uh of the skid architecture document and I was thinking like how would I propose some changes uh but I I don't really know which group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "which direction the group wanted to go one way is to say we get rid of the the term uh client in the in the skit architecture argument and that would be one way um but then as you said let's why it sounded like you are suggesting to come up with a completely different term for issuer and for client and then have this new term represent both of it um another possibility is to leave the two terms in there but then better describe on what exactly is the requirement for the for the client for the client and what is actually asked for um for the issuer to do I I don't care actually um as long as there's uh right now it's um not well defined that's why I spotted it foreign well actually very briefly honest I'm going back to something I said earlier I was a little late so I don't know if Cassie had a chance to introduce herself to the group but she works at Snyder Electric and she's uh she has a significant contribution to make have you had an opportunity to let Cassie introduce herself um no unfortunately not uh that's a good idea uh uh yeah I Casey I hope you we don't put you on the spot here but no it's fine can you hear me excellent yeah I've been on and off the meetings for a long time I had a I had an overlap that I could never get resolved um but uh yeah so I work for Schneider Electric I have been uh product security officer and uh leading all the global governance topics and specifically the s-bomb topic and then um uh so I was on the calls originally I would just listen in when before you even became the official group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "um back when you were working on the first versions of the documents and uh so my responsibility is supply chain security so I'm vice president over a ton of initiatives that other people are doing the details of but I do have the s-bomb uh Team reporting directly to me and I'm working very closely with different customers and uh with governments on product transparency in regards to um their needs but also trying to make it realistic and one of the items that I've been involved with and just on the periphery uh along with this one is the d-bomb so I've got s-bombs in um I've got thousands of s-bombs for our products collected and stored and have been sharing them under NDA to customers but we have not up to this point I have not worried about signing them or doing uh you know the the more detailed layers of trust and transparency and that's the topic I'm working on now a lot around Providence and such so this has been uh this has been the next stage is getting to that layer and that's why I wanted to be able to look at fully implementing um uh you know things like d-bomb and skit and see where that takes us uh you know from a natural usage and so going to be piloting different different pieces to get it working so thanks dick so yeah thanks thanks a lot um yeah I trying typically not to ask anyone to specifically introduce himself because some people just want to hang around and don't want to be uh sort of like um point to that but uh but thanks a lot it's really uh great to have you here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "specifically like Schneider Electric is uh obviously a well-known company with uh um use cases that uh we probably should look at uh at our next hackathon last at the last hackathon I don't know if you've seen that uh we have looked at the based on a proposal from dick at the FDA sort of medical device use case and that was uh that was very useful for us um and we always uh trying to figure out like what areas should we look at next to make the whole thing as realistic as possible and as practical as possible okay no I didn't look at the hackathon I think I had conflicts and of course couldn't attended person nope no problem no problem uh big yeah I just want to say uh Cassie I didn't mean to put you on the spot there but you you've been such an influential uh participant in the software supply chain uh work effort that I I thought it would be worthwhile uh just you know giving you an opportunity to let the work group know what you're bringing to the party you're uh you're a very valuable contributor and I I think it would be it's going to be very helpful having you as part of this effort so thanks for joining us and thank you for for the opportunity honest thanks thank you and no problem I'm you can call me out anytime okay thanks a lot just um I don't know Cassie if you're familiar yet with sort of hedge Doc and our minutes and things um but if you click on the little sort of pencil Mark in the middle of your icons on the top right um obviously the note taking tool um I I took some notes of your intro so if there's anything in there that is inaccurate or you don't want published feel free to just delete it again um just letting you know that that that's there okay all right no I haven't ever clicked that icon thank you yeah they want to accidentally embarrass"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "anybody I think it's right but I want to be careful um and the other thing is there are videos from the hackathon so if you had sort of half an hour to spend um I can send you the the time codes for the YouTube videos um to see what we did with the medical device use case and then that might um that might accelerate some of the learning if you're interested in that yeah that would be lovely thank you right we'll do that yeah so um yogish yeah it was uh Hannah's you you raised the point of um client versus issuer right in I just joined it trying to set the context here yeah I I went I worked briefly through the issues I filed um and I was um in the hope uh that some of you then uh look at it and state your opinions and and then we kind of figure out how to resolve them so are you sharing your screen to exactly what issue you are referring here or no I've posted the links uh to the chat window because they're just GitHub issues I can I can send the link again uh no no I got it yeah okay I just yeah yeah it's not it's I didn't put it on of text India because the problem is not so much is not so much the text that is in there it's actually the text that is not in there so it's a little bit uh um It's tricky to sort of to share something specifically I think I'm just missing text in the in the document on um on nailing down exactly what's really relevant to the protocol and to to the architecture and what we are working on besides uh like for example now since we decided that we take the API the rest API and move that into a separate document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "um the client terminology to me is is kind of an API artifact um yes I mean I was thinking about it so the issuer is something different than a client actually if you see that um issue is the one who issues the statement about the artifact right which is I'm producing this software or I'm vouching for this software to be that's the issuers role and the client is who is authorized to interact with this kid with a given role basically so he can be different entity than as issuer of the statement who is responsible for the claims made within the statement so yeah they can be one in certain scenarios but may not be necessarily one in all the scenarios right but then if you sort of like make the client as like you said like is is someone who is authorized to contact the transparency service and and register something then the question arises uh unlike is there a need to like what's the authentication uh and authorization Machinery to us to to deal with the client authentication because we have a story for authenticating and authorizing the issue but not for the client so that's that's missing in the document in and also uh what it is any relationship between the issue and the client uh and whether that needs to be um indicated somewhere like do we require the transparency service to let's say to understand uh that certain issues issue us or issue signed statements by issuers come from certain clients only is that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "is that a thing or not yeah better clarify that I agree with you that's what I'm missing uh and maybe yeah so so this is to me a little bit the issue there's a kind of a black hole there yeah I think we can we need to work on that yes yeah and and I'm happy to contribute some text if I if I know what uh what the answer is like it's easier to write something uh I would have naively said that um there's no specific client authentication the client the rest API is kind of a transport and and that's it but maybe the story is more complex in um I don't know how some of you solve that yeah sorry go ahead uh no I see the queue is filling so presumably we have the answers in in a few minutes yeah I will I will let others go I will just lower down the hand yeah I'll take thanks again harness I don't feel like I'm dominating this but I just did want to bring one uh more item to the surface uh so Roman sent an email to the list asking questions about something that Ray had sent about the new SEC uh regulations that go into effect December 2023 and he asked you know how does how does this have any relationship with the uh with the work we're doing and and I will go just go on the record and say I think in my personal opinion uh this is the biggest uh change in the software supply chain regulatory space in the U.S uh and I even include the s-bomb work this is even bigger than that this goes well beyond uh what what the s-bomb work did and NTI minimums uh and of course you know the question will be what role uh will skip play in this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "uh in helping to implement or satisfy these SEC regulations I will say I I don't have an answer to that question at the moment but I I think there is certainly a potential for the skit trust registry to serve some role in uh ensuring the uh you know that the information these uh you know these companies present is in fact trustworthy so I see a potential there if anyone's interested in discussing I will say this whole SEC thing is creating a huge flurry here uh in the U.S thanks uh yeah thanks for bringing this up uh yeah I saw that email exchange and and Romans question about the relationship um and of course all this stuff is just um sort of developing in front of our eyes so uh you know it's it's work in progress so we will see what comes out of it at the end uh and what the implications are so yeah but thanks for bringing this up uh uh dick it's always it's always good to know about these regulatory developments uh or in General Industry trends John uh yeah so I want to go backwards for a minute um so yeah thanks dick um yeah there's often sensitivity about skit straying outside of its Lane um as we've heard a couple of times but I I can't see any way that this is that um that is straight solidly down the software supply chain software artifacts um thing um in any case yeah so on the issue a versus client thing it is clearly there's work to be done we deliberately um I say we I mean I I don't do much of the spec writing I just implement it to make sure it works but um we as a community deliberately went"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "very vague on the access controls at the scrappy layer so the the the difference here that we need to drive back towards is one that says we have a kind of API access which allows access controls and there used to be a whole section if people remember saying things like our back but our back was definitely wrong and then we started saying things like certificates but certificates was also definitely wrong because you can do ODC and things like that so we don't want to be prescriptive on it but nonetheless there does need to be an application layer you know am I allowed to call this API type access control that's what the client is doing and then the issuer is the issuer of the statement itself the signer indeed of the statement itself which is a different Authority and a different identity so I think the the difference between two is very clear and is extremely important to tell the difference between proof of possession of a signing key for making statements about a feed and proof of integration with an application that's allowed to make Network calls um but probably we just took too much out when we were simplifying the authentication the rest authentication stuff so um yeah we should look at uh adding that as an issue to Scrappy because I I like that idea uh John um if we could um bake the client concept like just on a very high level mention it in the architecture document but then deal with the details of it in the rest API document I think that would make uh life easier because otherwise it's it's kind of a little bit of struggle um from from uh like we also have to think about the readers uh it's not of course there would be people who are involved in a group and and know what this is about and then they Implement and so on and so on but there are also other readers who"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "um don't want to go into looking at the code and so on they just want to read the document and understand what's going on yeah for sure if if someone like you can't read it top to bottom and understand it then it's then it's wrong so we'll we'll fix that but I think getting client into Scrappy and issuer in in architecture is the right split I also see Neil um saying that uh it would be useful to distinguish Auditors and monitors um and that's a that's a good question um so to me um like uh the readings through the document it's like you have um some parties that basically take what is stored in the in the log and then do all sorts of processing on on uh on that data and of course they need to some need to download everything and then construct everything others have a maybe are more interested in in a very specific response only and so um I think it's good to indicate that there may be multiple different interests uh for those parties to get the data and do something Vivid but from a writing point of view it's difficult to mix and match the terms all over the place because sometimes I'm wondering like if it says auditor is that really is it does it have to be the auditor it can it be like a consumer who is only interested to a subset it of it or is it a verifier who is sort of like if they verifier the generic version of the consumer and the auditor or the Monitor and so I yeah I'm sometimes lost uh I hope that makes sense Neil go ahead uh yeah so I've I've been trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "catch up with this in real time and missing some of the rest of the meeting but um I I'm it just seems to me that there might be some things important for the architecture or for the the API maybe more likely um that that would distinguish kind of those use cases I I don't know if it's a use case but somehow I I think the architecture document should at least be talking if it doesn't already and maybe it does about um how kind of the ecosystem gains trust in any particular transparency Vlog and that's presumably via things like Auditors and monitors and defining the architecturally the notion that everything has to be coherent enough to be audited and monitored and also be useful for again what I call a relying party that that is just interested in a particular claim foreign sorry I I was mute so I kind of agree with what Neil said and I'm not sure whether we have covered adequately the various roles we have in the document but we clearly need to have that kind of a uh whatever we think are the right roles in our flow the end user perspective is what is the role of a verifier what is the role of an auditor and what is just role of a monitor and then we should have a clear definition of these in the document I think so far we have just followed the use of the term end user or consumer which is kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "and encapsulate all these folded together as one big role so foreign yeah I wonder who is going to write that text and um you and Neil uh just had brought up I think it would be obviously useful uh to distinguish this a little bit better and to sort of make it clear on what the properties are the security properties that uh yeah the consumers or whatever relying parties uh get out of this and I think it's also in line but uh dick has been asking for a number of times um but I think we need some text text is not there I I just at least in terms of capturing the issue I just commented on number 89 uh so okay uh but yeah that's that's exactly the right question on us yeah it's just the work that needs took you know okay yeah I can uh I can think of adding it along with working with Neil and others in the community to help help write that yes that would be fantastic yes thank you thank your next meeting yeah just highlighting a role um definition so um coming back to the topic and the architecture of course there's this yoga highlighted is this buckets that are consumer producer and and now um we don't have to over specify yeah right so um the use cases can motivate some of these uh roles buckets if you need a more detailed one like Auditors versus monitor I think that's helpful if there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "enough uh meat to the bones here in the use cases so um so the other that I think there are tons of relying parties types that all behave at the same time same sorry the same manner in the end and so so we have to be careful just to overload uh terms uh glossary here um just just because you might not be able to differentiate a auditor from a monitor technically right um they might have uh different intents and they might have different semantics but they use the um output of a transparency service for for example but in the end they might do the exact same thing so then the question arises uh do we have to differentiate them or is this just a use case addition thank you Hank Ray [Applause] oh okay uh thank you um yeah I think that this idea of the different roles um I kind of agree with everybody here but the it's at a little bit different higher level in my view like I'm I'm trying to to sort of move up those much higher level Concepts uh up to the higher level API if you will so in the paper that I and I did make some comments in the in the notes here and put the link in into the headstock notes um uh in terms of the um the roughly the the idea is that there's a lower level API um which is the one pretty much has been defined and then we're going to need a different higher level API which would handle these higher level Concepts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "um such as the different role so the lower level API just talking into the into this cryptographic log is um not going to care who uh who's working with it um and um most likely but uh I still think there's some additional not so much regarding the roles but some additional capabilities of that API um when I've been working with uh other apis or other you know interfaces to machines like this they usually have a every a way to to understand what the capabilities are of the machine to inquire about what what is the profile or what are the capability profile of the machine and if we have that kind of thing so for for example in the old days like you know working with um modems and stuff you would you would have an interface to it and you could say like like can you do this what are your capabilities you know I can do these baud rates all this and having a a some that that API like if you if you said well I want to talk to the skit instance here there should be a way to to first ask it um you know what can you do and and what it what what what is the manner in which I'm gonna work with you and then it may say um like we may only have one right now this is exactly the only way that I work is the way that's defined by the skit docking but there may be enhancements and so forth or our Market uh differentiation by different folks that they want to do and so those would be added in there and that but then at this higher level the concept is that the level of roles and um actually uh requiring certain documents or it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "seems to me like we're probably going to be needing to handle the identity like in the d-bomb thing they have an identity block that they just sort of said um accomplish it some other way I think that that can be accomplished also with get the same block so maybe that's a good way to handle it is to push the roles up out of this lower level API um you can talk about it but I don't think it belongs at the low level to to for this you know the way it's defined so far for this low level um machine that's defined so far to know anything about roles okay thank you my system is misbehaving can I still be heard yep oh thanks sorry um just to say that at least from an API perspective I can just imagine that there might be a different low level important to have it at the low level capability to be downloading stuff in bulk efficiently versus um kind of a more targeted relying party and you know I I appreciate the all the efforts to it's it's usually important that we make this usable for real people for real problems so that they adopt it um but as people keep pointing out that implies so many different things for so many different uh specific use cases it's going to be a real challenge so I still think it's useful to at least address the question and maybe answer the question in their in the architecture document you know are we addressing both uh systematically the need to have an ecosystem where we trust particular logs and somebody's actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "watching them to see if they misbehave as a completely different uh overall need then the ability for individual uh relying parties to kind of look at particular corners of the logs thanks thanks uh John your next YouTube uh yeah two two comments on that so um one is the the Eternal comment on the charter uh and yeah we're having very use case specific stuff or whatever I think we've we've many times um said that we want to stay payload agnostic or payload blind which prevents sort of degrees of semantic search and things like that but it is absolutely possible to Define grammars for making queries that Transit the skit layer and I think that's important so um I think we demonstrated some of that at the hackathon uh and and certainly happy to to keep pushing that forward so saying we we Faithfully um are able to to make those queries without knowing what they mean I think is is potentially a thing to to go for but yeah as Neil says getting too specific or is he understanding what these questions are asking um would be a significant expansion of the work product however there is some stuff in the digital twin Consortium um so for those who don't know I spent a couple of years running the security working group a digital twin Consortium um just just prior to get starting up um and within there in the open group and the iic we developed some models based on connection profiles for digital Twins and particularly industrial and iot firmware security use cases so if if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "we're interested in that kind of capabilities thing without straying outside our lanes or or Reinventing the wheel I'd be happy to dig out the iic documents for connection profiles and see if that um is something that would help get get deployment and traction I have one comment I have heard both sides of the views especially from Neil and what I was proposing and for Ray and Hank which what also makes sense what I what I think we can do to kind of satisfy both the groups is we we leave it to the higher level what is there in the document as an end user and we can clarify that it could be any of these terms like verifier auditor or there may be more like Monitor and over the period of time we need to develop a guidance document Associated to the main architectures pack which which helps Implement errors use the skate architecture to make Solutions or build Solutions on top of that and there we can expand the end user role into much more concrete as exemplify that into much more concrete instantiation of monitor verifier so that there is a scope for modifying n number of further roles if required be based on a particular implementation instance so the guidance document can help clarify what the end users are and we can live with the main architectures back with just a common blog of end user that's what I I think would be a best that's my view best uh compromise can happen yeah so this is saying just barging in sorry for ignoring uh queue but my name was and so yeah I think exactly that um so we have the uh architecture document to Define all the building blocks we have the use cases in there uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "we have the scrappy document that will tell you how to um technically facilitate that and then the guidance document the guidance document will pick up on use cases and and and maybe on the terminology of rules as discussed before yes you just highlighted for example article versus Monitor and then go into uh the the depths of how do I self-identify with the solution or how do I um make use of this in a way that is useful to me uh combining potential API and event only verifiable structure thing or just uh the receipt item for my for my scenario and and such so the guidance document I think is uh is the thing we have to uh um take into a hand like a like a pamphlet and then walk around with for people to do yourself identify with this no why not what what can we do to help you make use of this and I think that's a real helpful guidance in the end the informative documents um that accompany uh the standards text and I would absolutely give you that thanks again I'm sorry I can't see if what the queue is doing but this is Neil and I just hope that there's uh something in the architecture document that distinguishes the need for um complete auditing of an entire log being an auditor or monitor or whatever from you know based on that um consistency um I I won't call it a guarantee because if nobody's watching a log I think I we need to acknowledge I I hope I think if nobody's watching a log then it could you know not be append only and muck with things and not be trustable and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "somebody in the ecosystem needs to be watching that so I would just advise kind of any user of a log that we need that kind of a role and uh and I I like the idea of the guidance documents Ray yeah I think there is a big difference there between that that particular role and it's at the low level API would need to have probably that information exposed um like I say in in that as some sort of a request about the profile of whatever the skit uh machine at that level can do and and say uh perhaps here's how you can um you know uh review what what's in the log and and validate it or maybe there's other ways of doing it of saying that isn't how we do it we have a um you know I guess a digital twin I'm not sure I quite understand that yet but but maybe um you know there's two of them or something and and they check each other or some manner in which that they that they maybe there's an embedded Checker that that checks it um some way that it is it it is or maybe it's not Czech maybe they just say look that's our policy we don't really check things uh we just put it in this and we think that's a pretty good solution and if you don't mind that level of security then go ahead and use it so it I I mean it wouldn't necessarily need to have uh the same same thing but that's different from the the the user level whether you're a submitter or a viewer uh maybe somebody needs to search for things which would be at that higher level API okay enough said for me thank you I I do and I do support this the guidance document of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "putting those things perhaps in the guidance document but still at that this lower level would I think the API should have that sort of utility interface so that you can find out what it can do thank you I think straight Steve up a couple of times and where we talk about apis and so forth and obviously we'll have a set of apis and I I've been thinking about this is there a way to describe these apis and policies for implementation like for instance we talk about you know as an industry we talk about things like PCI compliance so it describes how someone must Implement a set of Standards to meet a certain set of expectations um so just something to round out the both here's the apis but just because you implemented API does not mean you're necessarily meeting the expectations so whether that's an audit whether that's you know implementing um a certain set of standards that can be auditable I just think it's interesting to balance them both um we're getting close again to the to the full hour um we always said that we would be coming up with an agenda for the next week's meeting um John I I sort of we again didn't manage to talk about the fluid structures so I put that as an agenda item for next Monday uh on the top of the list uh so that would make it uh make it better and I think we should also talk about the scrappy the API um so those those are definitely two topics that we should be looking into yeah for sure and the feeds is kind of blocking Scrappy in a number of ways so we do need to start giving that some love okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "any uh any last comment oh next Monday is the holiday in the UK okay so I hope uh someone will joining you won't be here John I I might be I might not it depends how fast my wife can drive well I I can run the show uh I expect the participation to be live otherwise uh but um I think we should still hold the meeting is is that also a holiday in the U.S next Monday hope not all right now our holiday for Labor Day is the Monday after September 4th okay okay that's good because otherwise like then so maybe on the slack Channel um Steve and Ori have been chatting about fee at least even Orient Hank a bit um I'm sure so maybe if Steve and ore are both available that would be perfect to um um to do the feed stuff next one yeah and uh you're going to invite the Deep bomb guys is that good for not for next week but already yeah I already did and I updated the agenda on data tracker for the week that I've invited them so unless they say no that's all done okay cool thanks a lot foreign okay um thank you all for the feedback today and we talk to each other next Monday"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "um if possible and please have a look at the open issues uh a few of you also have some action items um please help us to make some progress thanks everyone thanks take care thank you thank you thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:08",
    "text": "here it is an order of support that line"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:59",
    "text": "beautiful reduction foreign"
  }
]
