[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "the state monologue when George Washington designed back was designed by each stage of the space usually have these contests compositions or whatever for designing play by immersing in the head as the tactical line is national in numismatic culture like the face is called the rockers and the other is called the reverse our chair is thirty seconds late good afternoon everyone good morning Braun can you hear us okay okay oh yeah he\u0027s in the queue okay so welcome to calyx if you\u0027re if it\u0027s not a meeting your intended then you\u0027re probably in the wrong room I see four percents on the on the line some of them are in the room also and do we have any JavaScript okay thank here any minute takers everyone looks so busy on the laptop [Laughter] we\u0027re on you have very stylish headgear okay so please take some time to read the not well and though I don\u0027t expect people people to be very aggressive not that we we won\u0027t tolerate aggressive behaviors I\u0027m trying to how do we escape from that no from the screen at length I\u0027m pressing escape push strains slide pushy here oh okay okay no I have to look for you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "so here we are so first first presentation and mic is that easier for you do you want to take okay so maybe we can have a GS calendar how can you come to this okay sure so let\u0027s move on so that should be the okay this one okay oh you can take mine okay that one does work yeah okay so yes so this is in last call I did publish a new draft yesterday which is mainly formatting and editorial revision to just try and make it as readable and understandable as possible there were two small additions which I\u0027ve noted here on the slide one was a extra property on the participant where you could record a comment that they made whilst applying this is a common feature that is already being represented in iCalendar with custom vendor specific properties and so i thought with a standard property for like if you said maybe you can write because i just my kids birthday or something and recurrence ID which is also needed mapping from iCalendar which is exactly the same as it is in iCalendar so i\u0027m going to actual changes I think the we have the calyx V alarm extensions draft when we discuss slightly later which is adding some extra properties there the we need to make sure we match I think we actually already do the acknowledged property already exists on alerts which is exactly the same as in that extension so you can synchronize dismissing and alert between different calendar clients snooze snoozing alert is defined in that extension is actually a protocol thing rather than a data representation thing there\u0027s no data representation for that so it\u0027s not needed in J\u0027s calendar the only thing left there for in there is proximity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "alerts I don\u0027t know if we want to add that to the data model here or we can always go in an extension so if anyone has a particular view on whether we should try and add that in you can step up so this is the being able to store in the data model that an alert should fire when you enter or leave a certain physical location which is been defined in this extension the alarm extensions by calendar should that be in J\u0027s calendar does this microphone this microphone works you\u0027re connected excellent so it\u0027s just going to ask what\u0027s the extension model for the J\u0027s calendar format how would you how would you mark something as an extension well I mean it\u0027s extendable in the same way as I condiment you can define new properties with future rfcs that is the main sensor model and also you can have vendor specific properties but like in my comment about we won\u0027t discourage those because they\u0027re not paying profitable yeah it\u0027s more how do you stop two vendors overriding each other do you have to prefix there anything because the data formatting because the data format not a protocol there\u0027s no possibility for negotiation for that kind of thing so it the spec already requires vendor specific prefix prefix for each custom property which is domain name controlled by that vendor so you can\u0027t get collision all right and if we standardize something how do we indicate which version so I we what if we standardize an extension to Jay\u0027s calendar had a reader of Jays calendar know which version it\u0027s reading well it\u0027s the property name that\u0027s standardized and so that property name shouldn\u0027t be used because it\u0027s a beforehand because it\u0027s either until it\u0027s it\u0027s not a cleaning on one you can use with a vendor specific property and so until it\u0027s in a icy-pop or defined in a future standard this just doesn\u0027t exist this is just the same as in my calendar other formats as I said because it\u0027s a format not the protocol you can\u0027t negotiate a version or something else that\u0027s up to whatever\u0027s using Jess calendar or using a calendar they can negotiate versions if need be yeah for the first time we\u0027ve redefined the behavior of property we\u0027re going to have issues if you\u0027ve no fines that I don\u0027t receive yeah yes don\u0027t do that as you add new properties and stared at her you can use this will be a bit better model so Daniel do you know when the last call expires for this I so when the last products pies I think it has expired for a long time I mean there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:16",
    "text": "no fixed limit for free so we can run it as long as we want sure I I think it is basically ready for publication at this point so yeah I think we could set a deadline of another week or two to give people chance to eat the final draft but then I would be looking to move this on camera Tristan regarding proximity alarms since it\u0027s already deployed in the field and I can\u0027t or anything could be worthwhile putting in this effect as well so knows we\u0027ve gone in proximity yes was it yes okay thanks so it does it imply some changes to to the current document yes so one change of adding one extra property one extra section into the alerts bit of a different trigger obviously which yeah which is oh yeah I can can try it it\u0027s it\u0027s been deployed in a vendor Pacific way that\u0027s being standardized in this I can\u0027t do extension which we\u0027ll get to later so we should probably just have it in the Jess calendar from the start as well so the other thing we can do also is have wait that the VL arm is being sent and sent them together so that\u0027s also one option I don\u0027t think they need to be tied together actually I think you just define it separately in both okay I\u0027m fine so I think this draft gets a significant number of review especially compared to the usual average reviews we have my opinion is that it\u0027s almost ready we choose to have this long term last goal just to get more and more feedbacks so to comment through we received were discussed on the mailing list I think it has been quite openly discussed and consensus have been reached yeah I would consider this draft done so I\u0027m waiting a few weeks and sending to the ASG okay thank you oh there\u0027s one one next slide so there\u0027s another related so this is an informational RFC which we\u0027re also going to publish they don\u0027t need to be published concurrently I think this one will go out afterwards advising on J\u0027s calendar to iCalendar translation it\u0027s informational because deliberately it\u0027s it\u0027s not a straight it\u0027s not just a syntactical version of iconic like Jake Ali\u0027s so some translation bits for obscure edge cases you can\u0027t do exact translation so you might want to do different things in different situations I think almost all commonly used features and I calendars quite straight forward and so it\u0027s worth documenting just so people have that reference I think Robert stepanak who is the co-author on Jess calendar will finish this document off he\u0027s away on leave for the next month or so but I don\u0027t think there\u0027s a rush to get that out so just noting that that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "there\u0027s a draft up it\u0027s actually reasonably complete and we\u0027ll finish that off after Jess calendars published okay right so this one my stained working group last call the other one goes to the yeah if I don\u0027t even know if that one is in working group law school whatever separate I haven\u0027t didn\u0027t actually check we started a working group last for for one document that split never split it that\u0027s right yeah yeah so yeah yeah okay okay any comment no so let\u0027s move Michael did you solve the i/o issues okay so maybe we go to vlr sure okay so this this draft is one I inherited from the original author at Apple it I think it\u0027s fairly straightforward it documents existing practice it\u0027s already been deployed I were to try to standardize it so that other implementations can follow suit so first thing it does this I think is fairly uncontroversial it standardizes that pretty much every component now should have a UID so they can be uniquely identified and that\u0027s all this does so if you got multiple arms they each have their own UID so if any reason to address them and some shape or form it\u0027s easily to do so next slide as Neil had mentioned earlier and not a lot of acknowledgment is a big thing so if you have multiple clients that are all firing different alarms is it\u0027d be nice to at least on the first one fires you write back some type of property saying I have analogous so that your other your other clients don\u0027t continue to fire and that is done the next slide with this new acknowledged property which Neil\u0027s our to discussed is basically just the UTC time that you acknowledge the alarm when the event gets updated other clients should see it and not continue to fire smoothing up snoozing alarms this is a pretty standard thing that people won\u0027t like to do what this does is just formalize a procedure for doing so so when you hit snooze on your device what happens is a new alarm that\u0027s a sibling of the one that fired meaning it\u0027s under the same parent component will get created with a UTC time to fire and you in theory you could add multiples of these if you wanted to and when each one reaches its conclusion you can do the same thing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "with the acknowledge property to stop that last item location-based alarms or proximity alarms is as Neil described anybody it\u0027s has a iPhone is probably see this in action basically what it what it means is you fire the alarm as you get as you enter or leave a particular location in this case there\u0027s a new structured location property which is defined in Mike\u0027s event publication Draft in this particular situation the URI you would use would be a Geo URI specifying the location that you want to fire upon there\u0027s also two other values that can be used for the proximity alarm that Apple is currently using we felt would be fine to standardize them here as well this is the connect and disconnect these actually occur I believe with apple carplay so when you enter your car and a Bluetooth signal or Bluetooth connection gets made you can fire alarms based on those I don\u0027t know what the use cases but apples seem to think it was important enough to put them in their draft I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any reason to not put them in this particular draft unless somebody feels differently to basically his values in a registry and here\u0027s a simple example of what one of these things might look like with the two your geo URI is based on the geographic area or can I say 8 o\u0027clock anytime anywhere in the world this this one is only based on physical location ok no yes yes Neil Jenkins oh yeah they connect disconnect just wonder if we want to have some other property of saying connect disconnect what like it could if you omit it it could be device specific which then is whatever Apple wants it to be we\u0027re now using it but it is perhaps slightly overly specific at the moment I think in the spec it\u0027s like a car Bluetooth which you wouldn\u0027t infer necessarily directly from the fact that just says school connect exactly right right from the spec it is a to make our places I think the text stipulates that in one use case is the Bluetooth scenario oh is that it yeah I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think it\u0027s I\u0027d only it\u0027s not directly tied to that it could be any type of connector disconnect up of that yeah I\u0027m not I\u0027m not wedded to this I\u0027m not gonna die on this hill if we determine that it\u0027s too vague or too specific to put in the spec seems potentially useful but like you said it doesn\u0027t specifically say connect or disconnect from what so it may be under specified so do the people from Apple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:18",
    "text": "can we ask them or if we think if we can find anybody who\u0027s still on the calendar team they\u0027re willing to answer just sort of having stepped into this so we\u0027re kind of overloading calendars to do other because calendars dual arms where setting up alarms that are not temporal bases which is what a calendar is but in this case the the proximity alarm would be most likely in a task not in an event so you see so you set yourself up a task to pick up milk and they\u0027ll arm fires when you leave the office or get close to the market or what have you I\u0027ll buy that thanks for filling me in welcome I haven\u0027t haven\u0027t read the draft but what\u0027s ever thought of of privacy considerations for this that is nothing fleshed out no all this will a lot of geolocation information is quite personal so at least need some texture on that but Neil Jenkins can yeah I mean I think the main thing there is just don\u0027t let other people add alarms with proximity on it to your calendar because that might then be way of them fine you have to have had some experience with the GOP working group to understand the issues here is huge privacy issues around geolocation do the ATS have any reference to suggested text that might cover this you should talk with Richard Barnes or Alyssa Cooper who were chairs of the geo probe working group and they can tell you all you would like to know about I know Jenkins you know I did just check this back it connect is connected to a Bluetooth enabled automobile which to sound slightly specific to me in general it would be a good idea to have a chat with Alyssa about this before she has to review it as an ad because she\u0027s almost certain to put it discuss on it about privacy issues if you haven\u0027t already sorted that out right okay fair enough any other discussion points before we see if Mike is back online okay well let me get out of here before he loses connectivity yeah thank you I\u0027m wondering Braun do you want to say something not particularly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "[Music] I\u0027m gonna let the floor to mine either have a slut hint of advice that I would suggest the open only slots in separate tabs I didn\u0027t hear you bro okay yeah Micha [Music] Michael can you hear us okay so well maybe I can start the time zone discussion we had and any time Michael is ready you take the slot does it work for the people in the room as well yes okay so time zone distribution system is basically a discussion we initiated a few weeks ago I think and or maybe one week ago and the reason for that for that for starting that discussion was mostly that IANA had this budget discussion for a four years plan so we just wanted to see if there are something ready we could ask them to do or so so that it became plan so so far I\u0027m just gonna try to summarize all the different things we that have been discussed on the mailing list and but the big conclusion is well they\u0027re the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "awesome people people are quite enthusiastic about doing something so that the teas that data be appropriately distributed with a given protocol time zone distribution but on the other hand we are not very much ready to to propose either a system or a protocol for the IANA so we\u0027re basically asking the iron there to to remain in touch in the with those discussions so that they can jump anything we\u0027re saying sayings or thinking something wrong so among the different feedbacks we received we perceive them well I would say some insight that we\u0027re clearly not ready we need to better understand the global ecosystem better reach out the people people that are expected to deploy this time zone distribution before the defining the system to understand what their needs are and then to elaborate the system to understand the resources involved for that system to better quantify qualify all the requirements in terms of resource as well as a usage and probably then if evaluate how the product will be a we have been designing so far which is mostly time zone distribution but maybe also the data the time zone data we\u0027ve been defined we have defined how much they fit all this system so on the list there were at least two two different things that have been suggested as the time zone distribution service one which was a sort of global service and another one which was a sort of distribution master so we need to to really focus on well apparently the distributed master is probably the one we want to target but we need to have this kind of discussion to understand exactly where whether what our target should be and the reason and a global service may not make sense is that the people distributing the time zone data sometimes do do not actually necessarily distribute the time zone data as provided by the INR but sometimes they add some tweaks and some adjustments so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "that\u0027s a how close data is being used that we I mean our protocol needs to feel what about the resource so the amount of data though though it needs much more studies well it\u0027s a half a megabyte or two hundred kilobytes 100 kilobytes so it\u0027s not huge data that\u0027s it that\u0027s a one thing so the larger sister V time zones the iCalendar yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s not supposed to string that is okay so then how do yes yeah it is it\u0027s not it depends how many time this moment data is being distributed but it\u0027s not terabyte so the frequencies so that\u0027s the frequencies of the release which it\u0027s not exactly the same as how many changes appears because usually you have a set of changes that is being that generates one release and so data I don\u0027t really know so some people were complaining that the sad thing is that they have to wait for the next release so that the thing that I\u0027ve been fixed that are not directly pushed or they can\u0027t deliver those changes so it might be something by improving the synchronization we may have a finer granularity than the release that are currently being used though I don\u0027t know how how much impact are the changes on the time zone in 1945 or so yeah I don\u0027t know exactly what makes a new release and what makes an update or will the update concern only the latest data at the current date that I have right now at the current date or older history so estimation of the growth per year is 5% but that\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:22",
    "text": "number that just that was taken from the mind of pull a Gert so not know studies have been on itself just raw data worst case was a eighty where we have 18 release so it\u0027s still in our alphabet so we can still have a letter [Music] synchronization so cap cashing the data per minute to me it looks quite aggressive but that\u0027s that\u0027s on my view so it\u0027s a it doesn\u0027t wait much but that\u0027s just something we have to understand how much Valley would be the cache and what our I mean the impact of one time zone server being offline or sometimes they post suggested that being in ninety nine plus nine ninety percent would be something feasible and valuable so not a huge constraint except for the minutes that maybe a messenger misunderstood minutes protocol changes the time zone distribution does not it\u0027s not that you cannot retrieve the full data but there is no currently no no wait to retrieve the database because it\u0027s only Jason and I don\u0027t know how if there is a game to provide a full database that versus said it passed in to Jason so that\u0027s I think that\u0027s was some of the protocol changes that have been suggested and in any case the idea is to be able to optimize the synchronization process to the data we need I think overall checking the leap second consistency with NTP client I think someone is jumping oh that\u0027s Mike so I\u0027m finished okay can you hear me it\u0027s there\u0027s no specific it doesn\u0027t specifically have to be Jace Tommy TZ just already delivers iCalendar and and the new format that can cope with so extending it to provide other data is not not a big problem oh yeah yeah yeah so in any of these things we mentioned I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:25",
    "text": "don\u0027t see any major issue is the main issues that is not here today so that\u0027s why it\u0027s my perception but Neil Neil Jenkins so who\u0027s the intended use of this not directly to like end laptops or something yeah so that\u0027s part of the what I call the ecosystem that we need to understand better before deploying anything or asking someone else to deploy but there are two things either it\u0027s your laptop or its time server your laptop or let\u0027s say phone is being connected to I mean a ninety percent uptime is never gonna work like the own initial startup it means you won\u0027t have any cache data I need to be fetch it so that\u0027s at that point that doesn\u0027t work so what doesn\u0027t work well you mentioned that they thought 90% availability will be fine because people cache stuff oh that doesn\u0027t work if it\u0027s their primary source as it would have to be pre-loaded and then how out-of-date is it I the other thing is that either they I mean a single source that gets pushed out everywhere immediately that sounds like a movie plot scenario waiting to go wrong just thought well it\u0027s sort of that now except very slow cameras and so the the thought behind this was when there are those last-minute changes to a time zone because there\u0027s basically no lead time given by the governing bodies that make those decisions that rather than having to wait from your OS vendor to roll up a patch with the new time zone if the if I Ana had a server which is unseating the OS vendors whoever they might be then your client just goes out and fetches that from your from your vendor and it could do that daily or you know once every couple hours to see if there\u0027s any new changes you know Jenkins again sure but B you don\u0027t need the I on a server bit for that like in changes so infrequently as we said it would be trivial for the OS vendor to have a separate server they can just update that it seems from there\u0027s not part of their patch process which is the main thing in that system not the fact that there\u0027s not an ax so I hop in here with the going back to that previous slide where we said that they\u0027ve been at most eighteen updates for you part of the reason for that yes that places can\u0027t update immediately and guarantee that every device will get it if you could update your timezone and guarantee that every device in the world would be correct I suspect it might happen more frequently so we don\u0027t want to encourage governments to do silly things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "so yeah anyway just in relation to previous discussion having some protocol or you know procedure on top of HTTP with different media types to be returned would be a service you know good thing for ITF to do irrespective of whether I am is involved in this sort of to follow up on your trans annex yeah I do believe there\u0027s some effort to match up these updates exactly because you know there\u0027s you know some it\u0027s a fairly heavyweight process for all the consumers of it to push a new version to their customers and whatnot and you know there\u0027s certainly you know what they refer to is the silly season of the spring and fall and various people or see their daylight savings time transition coming up and aside now we\u0027re going to move it by a week starting tomorrow or whatever which would be you know if if it were a lightweight lighter weight processor updates to get push they probably would be updates more frequently I also wanted to say I feel like given that that TZ dist is an HTTP based protocol if this is not something which you know a CDN could handle you know yes scaling out the ability of you know eventually billions of people receiving it we\u0027ve done something wrong because that\u0027s what they\u0027re good at especially when we\u0027re talking about things that are in the you know tens of kilobytes and so a last point was about how to authenticate the data provided by the IANA because well so that that would provide a means to do not authenticate as a source you\u0027re retrieving the data and so that might help to be able to publish intermediary results so the teaser database is on github so you have to the commit also and then the other thing is to be able to to authenticate the data as well as what your publisher has been published I mean no tweaking to that so I\u0027m too much biased with DNS SEC so I but that\u0027s the kind of things we have to think about so some of the next steps I think an important one would be to to to bridge to reach the publishers [Music] maybe I did I didn\u0027t remember the second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:28",
    "text": "bullet were there but let\u0027s go to the third one to define a discuss a little bit better what is with them the time zone distribution system requirement the users and so on and go to the protocol the data because some of the metadata have not yet being standardized and so if there is significant interest we go to the ID and proud we have a dedicated working group can I ask ignorant question and what I mean by publisher or publishers otherwise the the the time zone distribution system your laptop or mobile is connected to so it could be Apple like right okay so right so like West vendors who are interested in distributing this all right fine not people trying to say you know change my time zone in my country this is Barry my preference would be for a small group say a design team to just informally get together start working on this make a proposal and then think about whether we should charter a working group based around that yeah yeah definitely I think that\u0027s that yeah so I mean I\u0027m I don\u0027t see that the next target should be to work on the working group but it\u0027s rather to have these ongoing discussions probably to do that across the two mailing lists we have three mailing is because it TZ TZ taste and calyx might I mean we can live with that well the right answer is to pick one of those and have their discussions they\u0027re not really in the roster three okay you can you know socialize it on the three working groups but pick one for the discussion okay so that\u0027s probably on me that yeah that makes sense quick question you just said three working groups what other two working groups three mailing lists whether the mailing lists where this is gonna be fostering so you talked about I will let you know which is the one but the three ones are cal eggs which is calcified and one is time zone distribution Biss and the other one is time zone which is host by iana is the so to quick what Aleksei just said on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:29",
    "text": "the microphones so the remote participants can hear probably the time zone disc mailing list because the one that\u0027s likely to be where the discussion falls so if we make a working rooms that\u0027s gonna be the Biss then yes sorry Chuck time yeah okay that might answer my question because we were talking about in an earlier meeting this week that we didn\u0027t want all this discussion necessarily go on the mailing list were there talking about changes right okay okay but a pointer to the discussion will be posted there so those people know where it\u0027s happening actually the tease that people were excluding the two of the lists and keeping you on discussing that okay so I think it\u0027s Mike Brown do you have anything to say forty said well what\u0027s current is at least I have uploaded my slides about the calculate stuff which don\u0027t do in any other business at the end if we have time okay good I think we have time so I give the floor to Mike okay good don\u0027t have put my slides back up again hopefully this will be very quick Mike looks distinctly different from hitting some reason that I\u0027m doing extensions [Music] okay these are just a remaining what I think are the remaining issues and I I\u0027ve been dealt with you just slipped the next slide so there was a lot of discussion around my changes to the source property I think and I I suggested the rear I should probably do is just drop that and use structured data instead the whole intent of sauce was to provide some other way a way to to provide a link all the content of something that was providing the data for say a participant of e-card or something of that kind I think structured data actually works "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:30",
    "text": "fine for that so I suggested on the list that I dropped that all these changes and just use structured data I think I got one response back so I think I think that I think that\u0027s where I\u0027m gonna go with that and and whereas I thought we were sort of done and then this whole discussion started about structured data so I\u0027d like to get that closed before I move on and I think we probably need to read justify the point of having structured data as against using attach it\u0027s the the problem with attachment says he is first started we didn\u0027t mention this in the spec when we talked about this is it attached firstly only allow the encoded data so you can have unencoded data in the structured data property it\u0027s I think it can raise the point that some implementations have measure tassel so they strip attachments off and and just provide a pointer to them we don\u0027t want that happening with structured data it\u0027s really to be carried along the thing and we didn\u0027t want to extend attach anyway because we\u0027re gonna run into some strengths backward compatibility issues here so so which in the end we decided a new properly was a cleaner and easier way of dealing with this and it\u0027s we\u0027ve done this kind of thing I did this kind of thing before we even thought of structured data for oasis there is a need to transport a well-defined payload it may not be calendar data as such but it\u0027s related it\u0027s something that is is a is related to the event and so we invented something in in Oasis for the smart grid stuff but in fact out of his structured data if that had been appropriate if that had been around at the time the the advantage of the thing of having a schemer and was always that clients can simply see what this property is before they even pause it and ignore it if they\u0027d not interested it can also allows them to steer events to different calendars if they recognize was such as I think in the discussion about what was it called the maintenance thing that brought up the whole structured data discussion that was one of his requirements as as these events come through they don\u0027t go straight into a regular count or they get steered to a different calendar and that\u0027s related to maintenance you can recognize that from the schema without actually parsing it and that\u0027s I think is an advantage so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:30",
    "text": "what was the next slide oh yeah and you know there\u0027d been a suggestion that we should use a mind type instead of schema and that attached already supported that but that means we have to keep defining mime types to map them onto schemas when we already have a schema the mime type doesn\u0027t define the the data model it simply defines the way you represent it it\u0027s Jason or or XML or whatever and and schema.org has a specific mime type for their JSON data but then they have a schema and yes I guess we could have extended I attached to a schema but again we\u0027ve got backward compatibility as Susan and the rest of it and that\u0027s not to say you couldn\u0027t use attach that\u0027s not to say you couldn\u0027t use a mind type if that\u0027s inappropriate and it\u0027s not to say you couldn\u0027t redefine all this data as counter data if again that seemed appropriate but a lot of stuff for transport isn\u0027t counter data it\u0027s a payload and yeah and I guess my last point was though we\u0027ve been talking about schema.org it wouldn\u0027t have to be schema.org that could be defined anywhere including in the IETF and the the other the other point I was going to make about this is there\u0027s a good there\u0027s a big advantage to keeping all this payload separate from counter data we want to keep the model simple if we start extending the eye calendar or the j/s calendar or whatever data model every time we want to transport something it\u0027s gonna get ridiculously complicated and and it\u0027s simply not necessary we don\u0027t have to absorb everything into the data model we just need to recognize with transporting data along with the event so that\u0027s that really is allowed to say like any comments I mean I guess the question I have is do we just go ahead as as things stand with the the current spec I mean I think this discussion opened up a load of questions I think that we\u0027re fine as we are other than removing the source I\u0027m ready with the next question the draft how do others feel someone is at the mic okay hi Mike this is Michelle from my Anna um I just had a really quick question in our tracker we did an expert review with Cyrus stubby and he said that there is still an issue that needs to be addressed by the author and you did he spoke with are you were you the author yes yes okay so he said he spoke with you but he did say that the there were some remaining issues that needed discussion and feedback from the working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:31",
    "text": "group list and so I think that\u0027s just one part of preventing Ayana from saying okay just curious of what you discussed here if that\u0027s part of what Cyrus had a problem with and has it been fixed or is that still yeah yeah yes the I think I\u0027ve got a draft ready which covers a lot of the points he talked about were to do with the the a B and F issues on the rest of it but he did one of his big problems was was sauce and how that was being extended and so that this is what sort of triggered my thoughts about that and with the other comments people have made about sauce I\u0027d say in the end it occurred me structured data was was a perfectly reasonable way to do what I was trying to do with sauce and so I I think I\u0027ve addressed all his his comments I do need to go back and go through the list but I suddenly went through his list of comments okay just making sure thank you okay [Music] probably needs another check with our response there is a new draft version yes I I would like him to another go over it yes King and um any other questions feedback Neil Jenkins I\u0027m Smith I\u0027ve only skimmed the staff and followed the main list they\u0027re more loosely on the other things but the main contentious point has been whether something should be attached or whether structured data is useful as an alternative to that is that right right yes yes or even if you should be having payloads of this kind anyway I mean part of the suggestions it\u0027s all these Miriam specified as I count problem I agree that I think as far as icon properties is overkill and makes everything way more complicated and it\u0027s necessary especially when there are existing schemas like the ones you reference you so I I do I would strongly disagree with that as a solution I think what\u0027s happening is fine I can see how you could embed them as attach things but it\u0027s hard to how to like quantify but it does feel different enough that embedding it as you don\u0027t know structured data seems like a reasonable solution to me I I would say that for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:32",
    "text": "going forward with chairs calendar we should perhaps maybe we could we wouldn\u0027t have the backward compatibility issues I mean the to us are close you know just this generic attachment and and this this payload we could probably combine the two andreas calendar because we can move forward and we could distinguish between the things and that may be worth thinking about but I think if I counter to avoid backward compatibility issues in the rest of it this makes more sense new him yeah well with the chairs Condor you have a nice thing is these scheme of things have in JSON as well so you could just embed them in Tripoli and that\u0027s a definite advantage of the attaches you\u0027re not having to pass anything again it\u0027s just reading further properties but also yes they are not part of the Jay\u0027s calendar thing you\u0027re not finding new properties for every single one of these things so it certainly makes a lot of sense in that context I think any other so do we expect it struck my understanding is that this draft is almost done is it am i cracked yes I I I should go over the Syrus points once more just to make sure I caught all of those and I\u0027ve already got with the source stuff removed so I think I\u0027m ready to submit another draft and hopefully that\u0027ll be close to it okay we\u0027re making good progress and then I think Brown that\u0027s your presentation yes hello I just slept this together last night cuz you know being organized and all that this is just I guess a a primer for anyone who doesn\u0027t know what\u0027s with Cal Connect which I suspect is pretty much nobody here but also letting people know the dates of the next Cal Connect meeting and inviting people so if we could go to the next slide please so a bit of background on Cal Connect it was set up to allow companies who are working on new products to test an interoperability without the public relations problem of the whole world knowing what they\u0027re working on and and starting to harass them about it we\u0027ve now moved to meeting just twice a year so we\u0027re meeting October in Philadelphia and then it will be in San Francisco and I think April so moving to a six months league schedule the I put the link in here to the minutes from the last time we met which was a video chat from the calculate session in Bedford for Telex members so joining we didn\u0027t have very many people but some will do the same thing again so that we can have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:34",
    "text": "calculate people mate hopefully as well a next slide place we store public drafts in github from Cal Connect there are many documents there in various states the documents Mike and Ken have been talking about have been cherry picked out of there s the ones which we think her in good enough said to bring to IOT F some things there we\u0027ve looked at and said they\u0027ve either they\u0027ve died in the meantime no one\u0027s interested in them or they\u0027ve been subsumed into joyous calendar but there is additional work there in some cases it\u0027s things that have been in the wild for years and so we\u0027re going to try and bring those ones to ATF as informational standards subtlest there is a public document that\u0027s in a fixed place that people can come and see how random stuff they see on the wire actually works next slide yep so the other thing that Cal connects working on is contacts the jeaious contact specification is over in dispatch didn\u0027t manage to get dispatched at the last IGF and we\u0027re not quite there for this HF but we found a co-author and that\u0027s moving forwards this additional work on vCard happening and over the last year Cal Connect became a member of ISO and is working you know ISO on the dates and name standards which we\u0027ll need for that the last thing of course is that we are keen to get additional people working on this at the moment ken and Mike are taking all the documents as he saw the event Pub Mike basically took a document that was originally written by an author at Apple and has been shepherding it since then we\u0027d love to have more people come in and volunteer to work on these documents the main thing that delays our bandwidth is reviewer time within this group but also the number of authors that we have available so if anyone in this group or anyone they know any junior people who would love to get their name on an RFC and get more experience this is a great place for anyone with calendar experience to get involved that\u0027s not what I\u0027ve got and those people are like so as I recall I have a discuss open on the event pub document I suppose I should have brought up when Michael was talking but I wasn\u0027t thinking that we were supposed to discuss with the Cal connect people so that ought to be on the agenda for the joint meeting this time I thought it was supposed to be on the joint meeting agenda for the last time but it has to do with the extensive use of URIs or this extensive option of putting URI Xin in the event pop stuff and and my concern about URIs that get automatically resolved by calendar clients and what that can do when you have URIs that can be militia that can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:35",
    "text": "point to malicious things so that\u0027s a discussion we need to have somewhere either here or with Cal Connect during Neil Jenkins that\u0027s just reminding me Barry thanks that\u0027s a very good point in that due to privacy concerns of IP addresses and local information we fast mail and know a lot of other companies are moving towards anything like that as embedded we fetch fire our servers and proxy like within an email any images or things that you want to load for the user we do on their behalf so that it\u0027s not leaking their IPs and cookies we would have to start doing the same thing stuff in calendar events and we can do that but it increases the risk of those kind of privacy leaks and makes it harder whereas the structured data thing suffice must be embed it makes a lot easier because there isn\u0027t an external thing you have to fetch in order to be able to display it right and pointing out that a lot of times these kinds of you our eyes are customized per user so as soon as you fetch it that identifies the user that it had been sent to so yeah there\u0027s lots of issues here Kember just an unrelated point just a correction the April 20 20 Cal Connect meeting will be in the UK not in San Francisco so they\u0027re going to the right continent [Laughter] so if there are no other comments well thank you brown for staying online at that time of the night oh it\u0027s it\u0027s very ok it\u0027s very early it\u0027s 7 a.m. for me now ok and I think we can adjourn the meeting so thank you very much and see you next time in the interim meeting oh we didn\u0027t have "
  }
]