[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "so okay it's 1 30. um i don't want to delay it but let me mention i'm expecting my co-chair laura anderson to be joining i did text him and uh hopefully he will be able to join so before i proceed let me welcome everybody for joining the mpls working group session for ietf 114 um your working group chairs uh for mpls working group uh myself tarek saad loa anderson who am i whom i'm is expecting to join and he did join now uh we have nick uh lehman as well but he's not able to join us today our secretary mack has been very helpful in producing a report and other things mac chen and a reminder to everyone that this session is being recorded before i flip to the next slide uh i know that lower wanted to give a couple of words and he's already uh raised his hand so i'll give him the stage uh to proceed please go ahead okay thank you tarek i have had a short discussion with the davis seneca open andy malice over the last two days i think and we've been discussing the 25 year anniversary of the mpls working group so i have a little bit of history"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "so prior to november 1996 there was a lot of kind of unorganized work or organized work organized by different companies but november 6 1996 we had the first what we call the tag switching buff at mit in boston and that was followed um by that first buff in mit was outside the aitf meeting we planned a new buff at the itf meeting in san lucia in april 1997 but what happened was that joel help and that was the responsibility at that time he beat us to the goal line and he actually shorted the mpls working group in march 1997 and the meeting we had in san jose was kind of a mix between above and a normal working group meeting as i remember it dj and yours were sharing and i was a notetaker and roscal and eric rosen i think yakov had presentations the very first meeting that actually was a meeting that also will run like a [Music] itf working group meeting should be run [Music] was run in the iota in munich and it took place uh wednesday august"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "the 13th um so that was all the all the things that i people requested slot people people made presentations that wasn't kind of a company sponsored and things like that so i think we could actually if we want we could consider august 15 1997 at our birthday and uh it actually the that day is actually corresponding to the meeting in the summer so it's wednesday tomorrow so we can say that we made 25 years and we are going strongly into the next whatever it will be 25 years um okay that was it thanks i will i will send out the mail with what i have said okay thank you uh lower i'm very proud to see mpls has made it to the 25-year tick mark and i want to wish it another 50 or maybe 100 years okay i'll have to run a little bit faster so let me progress uh to the next slide and unless you i still see you raising your hand lower but let me know okay so this is the usual time where we present the note well uh which um many may already have been acquainted but for those who don't know about it please um you're encouraged to read the best current practices about contributions and collab participation at itf so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "please go through it if you haven't done that already um a bit of administrative uh pointers uh we do have an mpls working group wiki uh we encourage you to visit that uh it has informative information about the activities that the working group is working on we also have a github page so we do once in a while use it and we we plan to continue to use that we have a a decent agenda with six items today including the intro by the chairs i am hoping that people who have not submitted their slides have the slides ready so when time comes i can give them the the ball for them to share their uh slides so those who don't uh who have not uploaded the slides know themselves uh we do have two errata's reported since last time we met the first one is pretty straightforward i think it the authors dropped the rro ipv6 sub-object from the sentence although they meant say two flags so i think this is been taken care of by our ad and it's an accepted the next erata is is against rfc 3031. uh there is a claim that the u usage of the tur of the uh of the abbreviation l1 l2 and l3 may be confused with for labels mpls labels may be confused with layer one two and three"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "uh discussed that with uh my co-chairs and uh we did agree that um uh with 25 years i'm not sure how many years for our rfc 3031 it's been alive and people are by now are very well acquainted with what l1 l2 l3 means in the context of rfc 3031 so this is not too much of a an issue i do want the flag in terms of document status update and since last time we meant we do have one rfc and we thank all the working group and the authors who contributed uh on this to make it uh an rfc um we have an rfc which is stuck in miss ref right now and uh i checked the uh uh the the mishra pointer it's pointing to a draft that has expired i know the i'm not sure if there is a co-author present that want to comment on that but i know one the main author is in a way so we'll have to follow up on that and feel free law to intervene if you know if you know of an update on that um in terms of new working group documents so the working group was active the past period and we have four documents that got adopted um thank you to the working group and the co-authors um i'll quickly skim through the the documents and uh before i do that let me give laura a chance to to comment so concerning the document the sfl control uh we have appointed mcshanis the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "shepherd and he will actually submit the or if you start writing the shepherd's write-up as soon as stewart repost the draft because it's expired yep okay thank you okay i'll quickly skim through the documents we saw we left the status for people to review offline and some of the drafts are on today's agenda um we also left a summary of the report uh for the mpls open design team um activities and uh that that we talked about in the previous session the joint session with pals uh i'm not gonna go through it uh today because we we already went through it but people are encouraged to do that offline uh if they need to so with that i can switch to the first presentation for today and i think it is rakesh that i'm after and i can give you control if i can see you in the list interesting i don't see rakesh oh i see him okay uh rakesh can you come to the mic if you can hear us oh okay i see you i guess i can flip the slides for you if you want to use the video i'm fine either way you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "yes i can hear you yeah yeah so i appreciate it if you can flip the slides thanks daddy i'll do that no problem uh so hi everyone uh my name is rakesh gandhi and presenting the draft on the mpls iom on behalf of the co-authors listed next slide please next slide please so agenda is a quite simple requirements and scope the summary and the next step and next slide please so requirements and the scope of this draft uh basically is to transport the iom data fields with mpls encapsulation so in scope is the work that's being done in the ippm working group so the first draft the iom data is in rfc now i think it's rfc 9197 i believe then the next one is for direct export but irrespective of the data fields here the the scope is on the encoding or end cap on the mpls side and cover both the edge to edge as well as the hop by hop iom cases next slide please so draft has been around for a few years now uh used to be in spring it was moved to mpls uh about a year and a half ago we had mplsrt expert review we received good comments including the gas channel for iom and this was just before the m a work that got started since then the encoding of the end cap has changed a few times this one is the latest encoding uh that's um in the drop jacks mpls mna header uh so we'll just review that encoding uh today"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "and next slide this so uh the m a and indicators uh basically as defined in the direct jackson draft this morning that was presented in pulse there is a bit a flag in the ttl in the next lse after the m a label which is the special purpose label that indicates that there is um post tech data present and if there is a need to process it hop by hop then there is another flag for it next type this so as mentioned uh there are two flags defined in the ttl field and in case of n2n iom there are option types that's defined for that in the ippm documents are applicable and for hub by hop there are also option types defined for that are applicable uh in these two cases and next slide please so as mentioned as part of the mpls rt expert review suggestion was to use iaiom gas channel to carry the iom option types so this is the encoding uh it would look like basically all i am data fields with the the header that's defined slide please so the complete packet with encoding defined in this draft there is an mna label the special purpose label uh in the next lse there are two flags defined in ttl and post-tech data basically the iom data fields"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "next slide please so the procedure wise the encap node will add the iom data the option type and the indicator so which is the m a label and the flags in case i went edge to edge there is a flag bni flag because the hub by half flag is not set in the m a the intermediate nodes will skip the iom processing uh and as uh is the case with mna that the mne header needs to be received by the decap node that contains the those flags in the header and basically d-cab node will process the iom it may point the data iom data to the slow path and it will remove the iom data fields and the mna header and next slide please so only difference in hub by hub case is that there is a new flag set for it and the intermediate nodes will see it and it will process the iom data from the posttec data option types next slide please so next steps basically welcome your comments and suggestions there is some good feedback for the mpls extension header draft that hyu presented this morning uh so we do have a gas base posttech data defined um it probably makes sense to use the extension header as a common header uh assuming that's what the working group consensus or acceptances this can be done as part of the working you process but if you have any feedback and suggestion on that please let us know and in the end we are requesting a working group adoption for this trial"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "i think that's all i had uh thanks thank you thank you yes we have greg in the queue go ahead greg um because it will be embarrassing to me um okay so um i have a couple questions uh first um rfc 5586 uh defines uh gach4 only to be used on oam packets so it's not to be used on the data packets so that makes it problematic of applying iam to the data packets which is i understand it intention second of all i have a question so you suggest to support all trace options defined in iem data draft incremental and pre-allocated so you know that uh pre-allocated it's basically when each transit node adds data to the packet i think that's a very serious impact on performance and i would be very much concerned about that to be supported in mpos i believe that it's [Music] not useful option for npls so maybe in some other environments it's useful but in mpls especially since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "it's uh beneficial but not required options so uh it's something that concerns me and second of all your request to working group adoption is not clear because you're proposing a particular encapsulation which cannot be used on data packets so that makes this solution that you are proposing not realizable yes so uh on the line as well so go ahead rakesh now we can hear you for sure okay uh thanks uh greg for the um so gsch recommendation came from the mplsrt expert i do agree that in 5586 it's mentioned it's not for the pro or the for the data traffic that that iom being used so there isn't we mentioned in the draft that this is an issue and if you recommend or if you think that the the highest draft extension header is the right approach for course data encoding then that is one suggestion that we could take as a next step um yes thank you i don't know what the community will decide which solution to accept and standardize i hope that we'll decide to standardize single solution which one it will be it's yet to discuss but yes i i think that since iam is one of the use cases for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "mna in the document that working group adopted i i hope that it will use their solution that working group adopt for mma yeah and currently as you know there is only one proposal uh that's the highway drop for post like data encoding and that seems to be good it's not controversial so at least at this point unless there's another proposal cuts it's like right next time welcome the suggestions um okay my understanding of proposed solutions is different but if the working group already converges on how you proposal for post-tech encapsulation it's very good news yeah thanks thank you um i am next in the queue my question hopefully is very quick rakesh is there any additional validation that the ingress will have to do before triggering this uh action be it edge to edge or uh hop by hop like capability check uh specifically the edge to edge does it have to check if the egress is capable of processing the extra header or even the action timestamping thanks yeah definitely there is a capability um signaling is required from egress and if up by up then up as well and this is uh either part of the mna capability signaling or there is also uh quite a bit of work going on with i-feet and other uh pce based signaling as well for that capability but yeah there is uh definitely to avoid dropping the packets so we do need the capability signaling thank you um i don't see anyone else in the queue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "so thank you rakesh i'll move on thank you thank you and next i have is my camera on mpls mldp extensions for multi-topology routing i think we can go to the next slide okay one moment you guys can hear okay yeah i can hear you my camera thank you so just to give a little background that this draft we presented in iatf 181 and it has been adopted very recently and it this draft has been in fact implemented and deployed and i think there were some comments which we wanted to kind of bring out here we can go to the next slide so one of the comment was how to handle reserve bits and initially we had written it as a should be zero and the command from working group was to make it as a must be g road on transmission and ignored on the received side and i think that is fair enough and unless anyone has any other option about this i think we are okay with that yeah we can go to the next slide another comment was about can we make it as a two draft where mldp extension for igps which is like i t empty field is separate and for flex algorithm but i don't think we we don't think that maybe a good option are really needed because there may not be a deployment where you really want to have empty as well as on top of it flex elbow so you will be using either of them and maybe that was the reason i don't have historical reason 10 years back why it started with two different draft and then we finally decided to merge it so i think we would like to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "with the way it is currently implemented and the way the draft is so that's all if and i would like a working group to provide comment and i think by the next idf we would like to go for working group last call considering it is implemented unless there is some more comment or some more discussion which is required we have uh lower in the queue and go ahead though so it's lower why are you waiting for the next meeting i'm just waiting in case people have some comment otherwise from our side from the other side we are okay for last couple let's say let's say they have to give you the comments on october 1st and then we go ahead we don't need need to tie this to a meeting okay yeah sure so we are ready for last call for this trap okay yeah okay you just send out the mail and say that you you even ask for starting the publication procedure after october 1st but you send out the mail thank you okay we don't have anyone else in the queue uh so thank you my coming up i'll move on i have uh i have the next one is uh deprecating the use of route alert and lsb bing and the presenter is kiriti um i don't see your slides in the list to be shared uh kiriti so let me see if you're available let me start by asking kiriti if he has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "any slides to share or how does he want to tackle that i do see you walking to the mic yep he's going so i'm at the bike um so i do not have slides i was hoping that maybe ron had uploaded the slides i can give an update of where closer okay so i can give an update of where we stand with respect to this in the document in the lsp ping document we had um several modes and one of the modes is that we want to be able to return the the ping the reply via control channel and it's not clear at the time why we did that um i think there was some concern that if you return it over another lsp or something uh and you're you know debugging lsps that would be a problem so we so we introduced that mode and then um and then we said oh to make sure that happens let's make make the packet go up to the control plane at every hop so that's one use of router alert the other was to make sure that the reply or the original message doesn't make it past the end of the mpls domain and somehow get injected into traffic outside of that and we have several ways of doing that so we don't need to do a router alert for that one uh one point was uh brought out that in uh so the way we do that is we set the destination address in ipv4 to 127 slash um i'm trying to think eight 127.00"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "no 127 slash eight and unfortunately in in ipv6 there is not a whole subnet that you can use similarly there's a single address i think it's colon colon one which which is something that greg had pointed out um so that's a little bit of a restriction but at the same time you know it's in we set the ttl to one we we set a bunch of things so that the packet won't you know go beyond the last uh mpls router and so the idea was let's just deprecate doctor alert and that's the direction that uh ipv6 guys want to go independent of uh you know what we're doing here for lsd bing so um modulo this one comment um i think this draft is ready to go uh in terms of you know at least to do a working working group adoption and then you know if we have to iron out a few things okay but then you know we want to get to the next level where we we say this is um that whole approach of having a router alert in lsd ping packets should go away um and of course between the working group adoption call and working group glasgow we need to make sure that no one's actually using this and that's our feeling but you know i think we need to give people time to say have they actually implemented lsb ping with uh router alert so that's basically where this uh draft stands and i'm sorry i don't have slides but that's a that's a summary of this okay thank you kiriti we have people in the queue for asking questions uh and uh let me ask laura to go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "so hello kiriti uh actually the point with this draft is that you presented it once before and you are asking for working group adoption and we didn't have one single reaction on the mailing list so you your task is to actually make sure that you have a discussion that can motivate make it the working group document thanks okay i mean we can start a thread so we'll do that yeah please please do okay okay um zafar you're next yeah there is a farley uh so you mentioned that the ipv6 group is also going in that direction could you elaborate a little bit more because i think there's an individual draft but no discussion i i could be wrong on that so i don't know the details of what's happening in ipv6 but there was a movement in the ipv6 um six man six men yeah saying um you know we we want to um get rid of uh router alert and i think in general they want to make sure that the extension headers that are being used are ones that you know actually are being used and will go forward so i don't i'm not a regular attendee of six man so that's more of a side comment uh i mean whatever we decide here uh we'll have some influence there but uh you know really if we are not using it whatever six man is doing if nobody is in has implemented uh lsd ping with the router alert option either in v4 or v6 we should just take it out of the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "yeah let's have a discussion on the main list but you mentioned about the survey i think the survey will be important thank you thank you um incorrect you're next thanks hi i'm gregory erickson um as committee pointed out so uh there is a problem with the ipv6 address being documented in lspp and i think that we might use this work it doesn't have to be due as an individual draft but in the course of their progressing into publication to fix this problem and then fix a recommendation that basically suggests to use a destination address as an entropy but instead of that given the fact we have single address in ipv6 for the loopback i recommend you use the source udp port number as an entropy but it's something for discussion thank you thank you okay um no one else in the queue so thank you kiriti but i'll double check i think you are next cell so please stand the ground and i'll switch the slides [Music] okay yeah thanks so um so let me switch to this one um in in this document we've proposed a a registry an iana registry for what we are calling the mpls first nibble which is the first four bits after the last label the label with a end of stack bit set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "so so we're up to division o2 here and this is joint work with uh stuart bryant matthew bocce greg mursky and lowe anderson next so there's been quite a bit of discussion on this not so much on the open mpls list but in the design team and i think there was some concern is this trying to replicate the ipv4 version number registry um you know what is the goal here and the goal here is to say we've we've had a couple of code points that we've put that we use for for example the pseudo-wire control word or the net control word or the beer header and we just said okay we'll use zero for this we actually use zero for both survivor control word and that next control word and then we use i forget what two or one or two for the beer header but these are sort of um just allocated and basically everyone just says avoid four and six and then you're good but i think it's a lot clearer if you have a registry so we're looking at this control words and the beer header as early instances of what we are now calling post-stack data and so we're saying it would be good to have a registry where we have all of this so that kind of um answers the question why a registry the other part that there was some confusion is does this registry mimic the ip version registry and the answer is very clearly no we avoid four and six but if tomorrow there's an ip version seven uh the psv could also have version i'm sorry this um first nibble registry could also also have an entry for seven and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "if you follow the recommendations in the document there will not be confusion between ip version 7 packets and you know pseudo wire sorry post stack data so the recommendation here is you can send a packet that's a native ipv4 or a native ipv6 packet without vsd any other packet must have some form of full stack data in other words there are existing rfcs that say you must have for ethernet pseudo wires you must have a control word the idea there being you don't confuse that ethernet packet with an ipv4 packet so so that's sort of the third point here we want to mandate a psd or control word or something that doesn't start with four and six for all non-ip actually more accurately all non-ipv4 or ipv6 packets now can we mandate this we already have an rfc that says at least for ethernet pseudo-wires that you must have it um but you can't mandate it in the sense there are implementations that don't do this you can rot them across the knuckles you can do various things the providers who have this should understand that they're opening themselves up to packet reordering and other kinds of trouble but you know all we can do is set the rules and people can decide whether they want to follow them or not the other thing the last one that's a bit more controversial is should the fact that there is psd in the packet be in the control chain so for example with pseudo wires you say in the control plane whether you're going to insert a control word or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "not or should be in the data plane and so many of the mna proposals say there's a bit in you know the moral equivalent of the fbi special purpose label that says there is psv in the packet or should be both and [Music] i think stuart put it in this way that he doesn't like the belt and suspenders approach um you know i think that's something that the working group should um should decide that you know there is signaling in the control plane but maybe it's all it's nice to also have signaling or indicator in the data plane so that when you're passing it um you you don't make a mistake so these are the sort of open points next slide so um i think you know that discussion that we had and some of it was pretty vigorous in the design team needs to happen in the mprs working group at large but i think the questions to ask are is this stuff useful but does it belong in the itf does it belong in mpls and then is this a good enough starting point for working group adoption i mean there's definitely a lot of things to to fill in and to clarify but you know are we at a position that we should do working group adoption or should we have more discussion in the in the mailing list that's kind of where we are [Music] and i think that's the last slide okay yeah i have a question please uh so with signaling um it's a little bit i understand if you signal in advance uh you know i i will be sending you a control word uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "and then you start sending traffic after and that's a kind of a static state that you're in that all your flow or all your packets from ingress to egress will contain the control word and that's understandable but when you're doing on demand type of thing where you enable you know you're saying here a control word i can give a different example you enable something but then your flow is already started so some packets may carry that or some some packets may not and there will be a timing issue between control plane and the data packets so we cannot correlate when the state is uh ready for you know uh control work being present at that time so i'm not sure yeah that's signaling i mean there is advantages in getting carrying it in the data plane in that sense yeah clear guys do that as well so um even though they have a lot of signaling in the control plane in the data plane they have a special purpose label that says i have a beer you know beer data which comes after the stack so basically they have brpsd but that's heralded by a special purpose label so we do both like the control words for that net and pseudo wires are signaled in the control plane but not the data plane in beer we do both and then as you said there may be cases where it's more ad hoc and so you'll have things that are signaled in the data plane but not in the control control plane so i think that's something that we need to think about and see from an implementation point of view as well as a you know make sure we're doing the right thing with the packets point of view what is the approach we want to take okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "there isn't any other question so i will proceed move on and thank you kiriti i think the last presentation for today uh so i do have i think uh either robin or chuang long uh i will shy okay okay and do you want uh controlled uh flip between slides i'm giving you i don't do nothing you can control it okay uh hello everyone my name is from huawei and today my topic to generalize the ipv6 town of mps let's start please okay uh we know some technique on challenges to mps uh first one is the amherst legs the mechanism of source education for mp2p connections this causes the difficulty and the complexity for omo or mps we know that also the sfl is defined but a few implementations and the second the type of pillow out cannot be directly determined because no pilate type indication and the third we know the mps is difficult to encapsulate new forwarding attributes for the new features such as the net spacing i feed and ep and so on and first the first the process of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "the esmp function is in complexity and we know the interfacible or flow level are usually placed at the bottom of the labor stack for processing and the internet behind the information may also be impossible for the purpose of the example okay last slide please uh before i progress from long would you like to take questions now or towards the end do you like to think uh sorry um i have greg wants to ask a question do you like to take it now or towards land do you like to uh take the questions was that's the video okay i see greg already at the mic why don't you go ahead greg and ask your questions okay thank you um uh can you clarify what you've seen the difficulty complexity of oem over mpls if i understand correctly for the multi-point to point connection i mean maybe in the next steps i can give them more detailed information okay okay are you okay to hold uh greg okay i can hold okay thank you thank you please proceed okay so next slice okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "hit number three okay and you know in the drafted jp6 draft defines the jp6 tunnel how to support the new features for example iom and ipn under the exiting functions for the ip tunnels based on the extensions to the ipv6 extension headers the right figure is showing the cab solution or jp6 in this figure we can find the ipv6 extension hydra includes the cab solutions of new features and absolutions of exiting tunnels functions this is the jp6 the in-cab solution if the jp6 tunnel is used for mps there can be the following advantages the first is the ipv6 source address is used to do for more sourcing additives and the second the ipv6 uh that's kinda can indicate the payload type and the third is the ipv6 flow label can are used for the smp and the last one is the in-cab solutions for the new features have been defined well in the ipv6 and can be reused easily next step please [Music] [Music] okay and in order to support the mps based on the jp tunnel the method carrier ms label stick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "information is defined as follows pressure all well known ipv6 profiles need to be assigned and then encapsulation the ms label and the second is the ipv6 pressure prefix can be followed by maple the mps label in cap solutions to form 120 bits we quickly call it the ipv6 nps state and type one this is the following figure shows the details from it okay next slides please okay the ipv6 empire said can be placed in the ibvs distinction advice and how to process the first label when the packet is received see this figure to the local action of the label one is pop then properly for one and label two label three are moved left to uh number left by 32 bits if you look label one swipe then replace the enable one with new label yeah next thread please okay uh if all the empty labels type cannot be placed in the ipv6 distinction device ipv6 the hydra can be used to host the remaining has mps labor stake in this figure is defined ibv6 amputated we call it the type 2 and the next multiple label cab solutions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "the type 2 it is used as the segment in the root hider after all of the label income solutions in the ipv6 distinction address are profit the first label in the segment indicated by the asylum will be protest next please uh some considerations about the control plan first of all the jp6 only processor the way to carry mps label cab solutions in the data plan and the amps can travel and actually need to be changed so i missed the label can still be distributed using existing control plan doesn't change anything okay next please [Music] oh an incumbent thank you yes greg is uh the top of the cube okay thank you okay okay now i have two clarification questions uh the first is to the first slide where you mentioned that motivation for this work is difficulty in complexity using mpos oam and second is how in your opinion this work is related to mpls over udp rfc 7510 and mpls sr acid impellers or ip rfc 8663"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "uh sorry my level is not a stable uh i cannot listen very clear and jamie can you help claire for it for me okay jamie jimmy do you want to take that question yeah i can try to help to help to answer that one i think the complexity about the oem for mprs is mainly uh due to the lack of the source node indication in the nprs package so that is usual document is talking about uh as for the ampers over ip and udp encapsulation um my understanding is it is a separate thing from the npr's original impr's encapsulation so we were comparing the npr's absolution with this uh new proposal here okay [Music] little bit um that you say that mpls oem packet don't have uh source information because if we use ipedp encapsulation for oem packets as we discussed earlier for example in lspping so it does include uh ipsource address uh yeah that is another encapsulation which may help to encapsulate the source address but the mprs itself does not have this kind of uh capability yes but it's matter of choice so basically yes if you choose then you can use sfl again so that's already been solved so if you choose non-ip encapsulation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "then you can use sfl and sfl so synonymous flow label being developed as a mechanism to identify the source in mpls environment yeah that one has also been mentioned in the presentation well you can see uh sfl is one option it is not uh widely implemented or used in the network uh okay but we already have defined and you introduce another option that is not being implemented by anybody yet kind of strange thank you okay greg please follow up on the mailing list as well so i'm next in the queue uh tarek sad as a working group participant um the as you know the mpls label contains an additional in addition to the label value ttl and traffic class fields and the ib header as well the ipv6 in this case contains traffic class and ttl so which ones will be respected and your in your encoding proposal if they're contradictory or different so which is it the ipv6 ddl and the traffic class or the mpls uh hello tarik can i take this question yeah sure okay tariq i think that's a very good very good question in fact this has been taken into account until now we think that in order to maintain the original impr's encapsulation we recommend that the mprs ttl traffic class will be used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "instead of the ipv6 ttl or the other traffic class that's this is the answer until now but we thinking maybe in the future if possible maybe we only encapsulate encapsulate the label value but the ipv6 ttl and traffic class can be reused but i think that means much change thank you robin i i was hinting to that you know that you know maybe you should consider only the label value rather than the whole 32 bits but the next question i have is why do you call it sid i is it srv6 related uh in fact yes in fact you use not a ipv6 address but you know that we talked about some of the this generalized srv6 i mean this is the segment that encapsulated the impr's label so we call it a type of this seed maybe more appropriate that's something so it is srv6 then to some extent that generalize the srv6 because you know that's the classic srv6 is the segment means the locator plus the function plus arguments but here is different from the classic srv6 segment okay i appreciate maybe you clarify that in the draft as well okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "i don't know if okay i don't see uh so sorry ac you want to ask a question i was i was just going to say i think you should change along with what you said i think i was thinking the same thing you should change the name of the draft even shouldn't just clarify it i agree okay maybe okay thank you ac was there another question you had no okay that's it um that's it and we're uh right on time i thank you so much the presenters and this was our last uh presentation for today uh again thank you for joining and contributing to the working group looking forward to ietf 115 thank you lava if you want to see any closing remarks go ahead no um [Music] i'm fine i think next time it's london it might be possible to travel even from me see you in london bye okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:17",
    "text": "is i hear you had your own amount of fun five hours right"
  }
]
