[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "okay uh with that i believe we are at our start time i know uh yeah i believe we are at our start time so we're gonna get started welcome to debt net working group at ietf 113 we are hybrid we have a few people in the room and at least a couple of speakers who are there and then most of us are actually remote that includes myself my co-chair janos farkas and our secretary ethan grossman ethan we appreciate you staying up late or getting up early as you're in california uh luis is our in-room coordinator he's volunteered to help us out luis thank you so much for the help as we are at the ietf we are governed by certain um processes and policies that are covered um through our note uh through various bcps rfcs and if you're unfamiliar with them we suggest you go look them up but it governs all contributions made in the ietf whether it's in this meeting on the list in a document or even hallway conversations similarly we have um a code of conduct that uh there are guidelines that basically say we should always treat each other professionally and treat each other with courtesy and respect um so we are hybrid there is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "on-site tool it allows you to advance the slides as well as enter the queue if you use that that would be most helpful if you don't luis will ask you to help manage the uh the balance between the online and the in in-room queue and i think people are pretty good about working on online nowadays since we've been doing it so long we're using meat echo for the cupid we've talked about that but we're also using it for blue sheets we think it's important to sign in it's automatic if you're remote please do so if you're in the room and for uh note taking we're using our usual shared note-taking facility in this case it's now hedgedock we've been through the third iteration please join us on that on that link and help contribute it would be very we really appreciate it and it's also uh very beneficial to make sure your comments are accurately uh captured we have two sessions um we have the first session the one we're in is just for our working group we have a joint session with pals and mpls and that is on thursday oh well we have a pretty packed agenda so we're going to try to keep to the schedule there's been a couple of updates including who is presenting um you know what's really interesting uh janos i just uploaded a version but this is the old version so somehow uh meat echo uh didn't pick up the latest version so the um if you go to the uh um our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "uh the either any of the online agendas you'll see that's uh scott mansfield is going to be presenting on the second slot and also we corrected the name there's one other correction that's not shown on the slides that is going to be come up in a minute and i'll talk to that um this slide is complete uh i don't know what happened to this it's um complete garbage let's see if all that's so strange so i believe this was um status and talking about documents that are moving through i'll have to pull that up separately and remember what else is here the this is just a reminder about our disclosure process that we stop and start before each step in our process and do polls and those polls gate moving forward and we're all familiar with working online now but we want this is just a reminder that we can host virtual interims if uh participants would like all that takes is a message to the chairs and we can set something up okay charter update this is a really uh important conversation we've been talking for a number of meetings about bringing in potentially new traffic treatments including and notably queuing on list we've also um someone raised the point about uh we want to allow for scheduling we agree"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "that there are different types of of traffic treatments our suggestion to address the the list comment which is not reflected here but is on the online version is um to add a uh the clause for example um between the word including and forwarding and so that this list is not prescriptive and so to allow for um any other um changes in treatment um uh the do we have our a.d in the room john are you here billy hi john um oh for some reason i thought you were going to be in person maybe i just was confused or you changed your plans i changed my plan yeah sorry i thought i had told you i'm sure you did and i just missed it um uh and by the way i was right there with you because i was originally planning to go also um so um what we want to do is add the words for example here between including and forwarding and we just want to make sure you don't have any objection to that uh no objection at all great i think it's it's it anyway but it makes it clear i think that's just fine yeah and the comment on the list and you'll see that this is already on the list that the someone was saying that they want to talk about scheduling versus queuing and and and there's a fairly fine dif difference there that i think most people would miss and rather than getting into that exhaustive list we thought that making it exactly an example would uh uh would be the best way to address it so glad to hear you do not have any objections we do have someone in queue robin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "hello can you hear me yeah you're a little low but i i can hear you okay okay i'll try okay in fact i have a doubt because i know that the tsn and the dead knight may share in this the someday secure mechanism i'm not sure this if we do this work in the that night so i'm not sure if this work will synchronize with the ieee and the tsa or not yeah um so i i the way i view it is that it would be a alternate queuing mechanism we always can use different subnet layer technologies that bring in their own queuing um i i think in there's the sort of in theory and in practice um in uh in theory we want to coordinate with other sdos and the technologies that they're defining and make sure that we're compatible with them in practice we need to look at the specifics of a proposal in order to address the specific question in terms of working with tsn we see nothing changing in terms of how we work with dsm okay okay sure uh any other questions comments all right well thank you on on this point and uh john i believe is going to bring us to the iesg immediately following this meeting and then we'll run that process and uh for the last slide a and a good thing we're running ahead is we've updated our milestones based on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "where we stand in the working group we haven't updated them in quite some time so we thought it was good to do that some of the changes are pretty obvious related to oam and our existing control plane work the uh some are related to what we've just been talking about in terms of expanding the scope and we've talked about rather than uh call it out as queuing or scheduling we just talk about data plate enhancements and we've put in some straw man dates here for when we start um adopting documents and um submitting to the isg keeping in mind that we are always contribution driven so that uh you know in order to make these dates we really need contributions from the working group um the requirements date we chose because we think we have a a a reasonable document um or i shouldn't say reasonable a more consolidated document based on the discussions that we've had and so we think we suspect we're pretty close there we're going to be talking about that today we left a little more time on the um it solutions because we feel that in changing the charter today we want to give some time for different solution documents to be um submitted and to come into the working group and then be discussed so we wanted to give a little more time on the solutions than on the requirements document um and i think that's those are all the points we wanted to um we wanted to cover uh ben"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "hi uh thank you thank you uh i i uh on this page i have two questions the first one is i see the the for the ipo document is actually it's updated and is based on the mps oam document so um i'm not sure that why and this this document is first submitted between a bit before the other oem documents or is there any uh solution is not not quite decided to be the one should be submitted and the second one uh is the clarification question um because we are not quite yet sure about the enhanced uh what what it has to mean in the in the force to to yeah from the four to two from the fourth to the last um um lines about these uh about the the enhanced uh that uh then that data playing requirements so uh i'd like to first have the discussion on these two um understood points and then uh if it is possible and then submit it to iesgb4 before we have the consensus on this list thank you okay on the first point it's pretty easy i believe that should have just said first the oam document so that's a good catch we were not trying to be specific as to which which it was uh so i think that's a simple mistake um certainly a necessary correction um i did not quite follow your question or comment on the last four i don't yanosh did you catch it do you want to respond or do should we ask the statement maybe i can repeat my question the question is i don't quite uh follow the mailing of the enhanced yeah that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "so we've been having discussions about large scale requirements and then some proposed queuing mechanisms those have been going on for a little while in the working group and we kept coming back to a question of whether or not uh changing um defining queuing uh belonged in this working group or a different working group and um and we've um in discussions with our id aad with the transport area there was agreement that this was something we could do inside the routing area and inside our working group and so the require we have a requirements uh need to define what we're going to do that's the requirements and then we have room for defining one or more solutions and that's the solution document so that's what's meant here by enhanced data plane now if there's other enhancements that are needed that's also uh within our um within our charter um some of those have been clearly youth in the charter others have been sort of implicitly and rather than be specific at our milestones we are using we're using the class that the term enhanced net data plane does that help yeah thank you uh much clearer thank you okay great and as i mentioned we're going to be talking about the requirements document on the event it's on the agenda and there's one solution document also on the agenda uh kwon do you want to say something you're muted uh maybe we'll move to torlas"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "um thank you so that that looks to me as if there would be only one document for each of these areas is that kind of because i don't think we necessarily did the same thing right with different ip and mpls data plane documents so can can you try to clarify that for me um we certainly expect one requirements document for a solution this says first solution it doesn't say last solution it doesn't say only solution right well because yeah i mean we can see if if if one requirement document makes sense or if that would also be multiple by mean of you know different type of type of networks or use case requirements right so i mean one one is always good but i'm not sure if if that's the the only way to do it okay uh if we um get you know as i said earlier we're contribution driven so if we have documents that look like they don't make sense to be merged then certainly we can do more than one at this time we're not seeing that so we do have a requirements document on the agenda if you think that there are other use cases that are needed um or not covered perhaps bring it up then um and because then we can have it in the context of that specific document and you know talking specifics is always better than talking abstract no no i mean the the requirement document that i'm on i understand what it's good for and that we need it i wouldn't claim that it necessarily covers all the possible areas where that net might be of interest so that's uh why why i think for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "requirements there might be multiple ones and i think also as a general note right this is a mature working group it's incremental work and so then the question whether we do this type of shall i say three gpp style system level documents as opposed to individual technical contributions is then a process question okay thank you all right do we have uh any other comments questions on this if not we're going to move on and maybe maybe if you don't mind just there was that broken slide just in one sentence we have two documents for which publication requested you can check it and there is a newly adopted document the defeat of by mpls over udpip and the oem framework document is not on agenda but you will hear the details and sorry about this library all right thank you for that um scott i have loaded you up if you want to present your screen you need to select request um yeah there you go right thank you so is it i'm clicking grant screen and it's not giving to you maybe i have to are you sharing or am i uh well i was i have a screen request you have to you have to stop sharing the screen first i think if you are i'm not someone is somebody is i don't have control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "oh because that's not what i'm sharing so let's just no i see the controls down at the bottom i will cancel my request and just use this and what i will do well what i will do is i am pasting into the chat window all of the links that i were going to talk about anyway so first off thanks everyone this is scott mansfield i'm representing um erickson normally in this capacity i am the ietf's itu-t liaison coordinator so i said it in the middle between communications that go between the ietf and the itu-t and in this case one thing if you check the chat window i wanted to point out that there has been some liaison activity going on it's also what's seen in the agenda we received a liaison from the itu-t question 6 in study group 13 back in july of last year we considered it and replied to it in i don't know november or something you can check the check the liaison and then the uh so i've been having some conversations with the rapper tours of q6 and there was just a q6 meeting last week or two and so the uh chair the rapid tour is if you i go flip to the next slot oh i can flip to the next slide i don't need to tell you that um the rapid tours uh graciously created a short slide deck that provides the status of what it is that that q613 has been working on and a pointer to how to participate and when their next meetings are so i know i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "have like eight minutes left so i'm not going to get into the details of these slides i wanted to provide a just a snapshot of where the q6 work now has landed post the liaison responses that we've had if there's more that the ietf wants to say you know let me know and i can say it back if there's more that q6 13 wants to say to the ietf i also attend those meetings and we can discuss it from that angle as well so the uh the two uh rapid tours uh tasting from uh etri is the one that put these slides together i really appreciate the uh the effort that he's put into this to provide a nice communication mechanism for those that don't know the work i'm not reading this whole slide the thing that you need to understand is what is uh study group 13 the itu-t is arranged in study group study group 13 is the one on next generation work and q6 in particular is about uh qos so quality of service and quality of experience related to networks resource control large-scale networks even how qos and qoe are going to be applied to uh quantum key distribution networks so this is kind of the space that they're in i put in the chat i put a pointer to the full terms of reference and a summary of what q6 is doing for those that are interested the the one of the fundamental documents that's driving the work moving forward in question six the itu-t just had a major reorganization or a major meeting that sets the plan for the next two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "years so without going into too much detail there i wanted to provide some information about what what we see the itu-t and in this regard question uh six of study group 13 is going to be working on and they created a supplement to the itu recommendation series and a supplement is an informational document so this is work that was completed as part of a study basically in in terms that most would understand it was a study and a report has been created and this is a supplement providing the information particular to compact capabilities and performance related to applications that the study group 13 thinks will be important in the year 2030 so this provides some details on how they're looking at terms like uh later and later latency and uh jitter i had too much caffeine my jitter is too high right now so the uh so that's the basic so and i put a pointer to that document as well in the chat window if you wanted to see that and then so some of the buzzwords here that need that you need to understand so that we understand where the dividing line between itu-t and ietf work lies is the itu-t it likes to use the term large-scale networks entered into domain networks and so looking at use cases frameworks and architectures that support uh latency time synchronization with or without time synchronization in large-scale networks so they're looking at it from the top down where you know the ietf well i don't have to tell you what the ietf looks at everybody in this room knows what the ietf looks at it and how it looks at it from the bottom up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "so this is a document that i did not provide a pointer to but it's easy to find the the numbers there and it's a published document that provides some more of the terminology that's the basis of what's going on so they talk about um without time so yeah just just more like i say i'm not going into the technical detail i only have a couple minutes i wanted to provide this so that if you have questions about the the terminology used how the documents are progressed what documents are that are the most uh relevant and um the most current then you can contact me or tasing and we can uh open a conversation so uh documents that you see in this uh format so if it's like a y dot a number that's kind of like an rfc if it's y dot something like this this is work in progress and so there is now documents related to functional architecture breakdown related to the terminology uh talked about in y.3113 and so this document and this is one of the documents i believe we received and have sent comments back and then there is uh lsn large-scale networks and this is a jitter guarantee so this is a document about well i mean i need to re-say what it says so it talks about the the math and the uh gives the information and definitions on on how they're talking about buffering in um in this document related to how you deal with it across a large scale network and then there's qos so you'll notice requirements and frameworks so a lot of requirements frameworks use cases architectures those are the things that are being discussed in in this in this group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and then so um here's another document that's qos um uh requirements on large-scale telecommunication networks uh this is a key word well you can't highlight so uh imt 2020 networks and beyond is the terminology that the itu-t is using until the itu-r comes up with what they're going to call 5g or you know beyond 5g so this is that's what that means and then uh so uh so yet another picture that shows the uh general view of the deterministic network so the large-scale deterministic network framework and provides some pointers to the terminology that's being used user side network site and multi-domain so one of the things that i've found being a liaison officer for as long as i have is that it's it's important for both organizations to understand the terminology that they're using to make sure that they're talking about the same things and then so this is an example of a use case document that's talking about particular industrial ethernet use cases and and how and how the work will move forward so and this is yet another detail but another dive deeper into the document that describes the figures a little more and provides pointers to the information about how the problem has been decomposed and then so uh this is a slide that will obviously take a lot this there's a lot packed into this slide and this is something that i encourage the people on both the the ietf people and also the the itu-t people that are working on these documents to look at the entire space the entire standards area that's working on problems related to deterministic network uh networking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "quality of service and this is a local area so local area network so this one is directly related to things that would happen that that net would care about and also the ieee 802.1 tsn group so looking for where are their gaps are there gaps in protocol is it just a way of looking at it is it a use case problem is it a framework architecture problem and so i encourage people to to look at these to make sure that the right questions are being asked and then the last slide and i'm looking at the elapsed time and i'm i'm still on time so good so there are meetings these are meetings that if you want to come you don't have to be a member of the itu-t to come to these if you're an invited expert so you can contact me contact the chairs contact the itu-t what's called the tsb that's their steering group if you're interested in participating in in these we can find a way to get you an account so that you can log into these meetings and and provide your opinion another way is contact me for a liaison so i will leave it there open for i see no one in the queue but i will stop talking now and let the chairs do their job here thank you very much for your time and i appreciate the time thanks scott magically i now have ability to share again so whatever you did give you back control thank you okay we are moving on uh shusang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "can't hear me well well yes and hopefully you have the buttons across the bottom uh yes uh but could you help me to present the slide if it is uh sure hold on one moment i'll maybe take control back i can see the slide you want me to advance for you is that correct uh yes please thank you sure thank you uh hi this is jose and i will give a brief introduction about the status of the nether controller plan framework presenting other others next slide please uh i see slide 2 yes that's it this slide provides the background and purpose of this document uh this document then add controller plan is first uh the is uh the the concept of data controller plan is first firstly define the erc 8655 which is the combination of control plan management plan and in a data plan framework document there are also some introductions about the requirements and specifications for the net controller plan and also in different data data plan documents there are some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "controller plan requirements for example for the mps data plan documents it mentions that there are some requirements for label distribution and label management in controller plan and this document is intended to give a clear framework for the whole picture of then at the controller plan which could compile all the net controller plan requirements in one place and also give an overview of control architecture which hopefully could give guidance for the following work about the control plan and management plan next slide please here is the overview of what have been defined in this document in section one we we have an introduction and in section two uh we listed the primary requirements for dynamic controller plan which align with the the definition of rfc 8938 uh section three and section four are both about then and the control plan uh in the nf3 there are three types of data control plan architecture the first one is a fully distributed control plan using dynamic signaling protocols and the second is fully centralized sdn like control plan and we also define a habit control plan which contains both distributed protocols and centralized controlling in section four then at control plan considerations are specified in detail respectively for different decnet mechanisms that have already been defined in den and architecture including explicit paths resource reservation and pruf support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "also different data plan solutions are considered for example nps ip and also segment routing in section 5 it is still very brave it gives a management plan overview which mainly includes some brief introduction about static provisioning for example yamado and also some brief introduction about data that net oem next slide please ah pascal is in cube do you want to ask now or after the presentation pascal i'm okay can you hear me okay yes yes i can hear you yes it's it's about the controller plane and control plane or for that mechanisms at fro we are defining uh functions in the architecture which which require some control of plane activity and there was this discussion whether um this should be part of the raw architecture or not and and a strong uh tendency to think just like the bat-net architecture that this belongs to the controller plane and not to the row or the deadman architecture and so my question is like would you like to include some raw consideration as part of the death net architecture control plate architecture or should we also have a role control of plane architecture actually in my mind i mean if you could put some raw configuration there we would be understand i think in the architecture document the the specifications for these functions are not so detailed especially in the aspect of controller plan and this document may provide some explanations and a more detailed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "understanding about what could be done in controller plan for these functions so it i think it can be um a detailed version of the explanation if i understand this right but if um working group have some other yes please yeah i think pascal if you have something specific you'd like to propose uh do so um and then we can [Music] judge if it belongs in this document or a raw specific document oh okay so i i'll i'll post something on the mailing list then and and you lou you you know exactly what i'm talking about right it's it's all this actually i don't know i mean i know what's in the raw document i'm not sure exactly what you're thinking here so you know having having that proposed words would be really helpful uh thank you okay carlos thank you yeah this is kind of generous you see three i just wanted to echo what pascal said i think that is very relevant to have that kind of consideration i don't really care where but i i think it will be important to agree where this work may be or who it's gonna take that work either that net or i mean with a specific document but i think that that is a very useful piece of information that we need to add thanks oh yes just oh sorry now it was too early please respond carlos can you go ahead we can't hear you if you're speaking no sorry i i think there was a collision i was a i was getting too fast to the mic i think she wanted to to respond first oh it's okay just uh just as lou has mentioned it will be very helpful if you could put the contribution or detailed suggestion in the mailing list and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "i think this document if it is possible we could include these different mechanisms considerations right um tallest eckerd future way um i think in bangkok there was a a quick overview also about some of the tsn protocols for their controller plane which i forgot the name of because they're always crazy names um but that that that is a i think a very nice hybrid uh one that allows you to put the central controller in or not um and it makes it much more flexible so i think would be great to add a reference to that i think some of the co-authors should be aware of that i didn't see that in in in the list of reference technologies thanks uh you mean qcc the ieee our document yeah the the actual ieee document i was browsing through the references and i i couldn't find that okay i will okay good suggestion i can end it in the in the reference part uh yes this is the go ahead please yeah i think the important part is really to uh to recognize that in the past we always had you know a solution where the operator couldn't freely choose how much to centralize and how how much not to right he either had to buy into the full distributed rsvp or the whole sdn controller and that's not the case in the teas architecture exactly exactly um but the g's architecture allows the the hybrid yeah we really should move on because we're about out of time and she has a few more slides to go yeah yeah thanks uh i will go really fast uh here is the update in this version in the first section we modified the management plan specification based on the discussion in the mailing list basically these descriptions is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "coming from rfc 7426 and also in section three we remove some detailed descript descriptions of protocol extensions requirements for example igp and rsvpe and the detailed example is removed which may depend on the implementation and in section 4 we we remove some description about the streak and lose path which is also depends on the the further implementation option the next slide please ah here is some issues may need further discussion in working group the first one which has already been discussed in the main list and also in some previous meetings how to deal with the relationship between this document and other rfc and working group documents for example the architecture document has been mentioned by pascal and also the data plan framework document and also some other working group documents for example then at oem framework so suggestions from working group will be very helpful in the existing status we will treat we we would like to treat this document as an uh calibrations or explanations of the existing specifications and if there are some solutions has already been defined in other work for example young model and om framework it is virtual and it could be referred to in this document and another question is what is the scope of the net management plan the orders cannot find a very uh specific definition yet so but there are some descriptions in rc 865 and rc8938 so in our existing uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "understand the management plan could include the young as configuration management and also oem as fault and monitoring management if people have different understanding please also let us know a next slide please so what is the next step um this document uh is haven't include flow aggregation yet so we will end the flu aggregation which is very important a function in that in section 4 and also we ask more input from working group is glad to see there are some comments in the in our discussion so please contribute if you think anything could be ended in this document okay thank you very much uh for the update really appreciate the work and look forward to the contribution from others on the topic and we're going to move now to oam uh greg europe we are um okay uh hello everyone and uh so we'll have presentation on our work on oem for deterministic networks using with mpos data plane and they will follow with their ip data plane uh next slide please have the controls ah i have control yes it's uh yeah okay it's a fading colors thank you okay so this is update uh we welcome our uh co-authors janice and and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "by this meeting we updated that net ach definition and provided specifics of flags filled and related filled in related uh i am a registry so um that ach is now different from uh where we started with their more like based on uh pseudo-wire ach uh it has a new version number so it will be uh differentiated easy to differentiate from the sudower ach it includes its own sequence number channel type and also their second long four byte long word uh carries the node id level flags and session identifier any questions okay now uh the flags uh how much uh have you been coordinating with the joint work that's going on with um pals and mpls um yeah it's a good question so um we are closely monitoring following and participating in the discussions uh of um open design team the fact that we are following on the pseudo-wire architecture where their control work or ach are expected to immediately follow the bottom of the stack label so we are in a different position"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "so we are in this sort of a protected space that uh enhanced mpls architecture that open design team is working should not affect all right thank you i was uh that was sort of a planted question to see if we would get any comments from others who are participating looks like they're happy so we can move on yes thank you and i appreciate this um opportunity to clarify uh how we um how mpl uh that met with mpls uh is related uh to um work out enhancing mpls architecture okay so um now uh for now their uh flex field is composed of five bits filled each flag filled is one bit long and uh for now in this document uh each of them is unused and that is reflected in the proposed ayana registry that is requested to create a new deadnet mpls oem flags registry and do assignment as in this copy of the table so that's what now in the draft any specific questions about flags or the registry okay thank you so um for next steps uh we always appreciate the comments welcome suggestions and uh we are planning to work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "on this document and would probably ask the working group to consider uh working with last call before the next meeting okay comments questions okay will okay yes thanks uh hi hello work and thank you for the presentation i have a question for the uh for the for the encoding or encapsulation of this uh uh that net oem um format um i i see there are uh there is a node id and session session uh session i id i think i remembered um but before we before we set the before we define this uh encoding of oem packets and do that we should have a i have a general uh consensus on the other on the mac on the oem mechanisms um because i see there are there is a new encoding so that's it it's different from what we have um in previous om mechanisms so i don't know if we should uh first define first to discuss the the mechanism how we use it and then we decide how to encode it i think that that is yes very good question so uh as for encoding uh we are not envisioned that okay we propose to reuse uh all the encodings that are we are familiar with uh in uh sudower"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "encapsulation so that there are ipv4 ipv6 channel types for ach and that means that that net ach can be followed immediately by ip encapsulated oem uh for example it could be lspping it could be icmp it could be a bfd control message uh in case of lspping and bfd control message with ap encapsulation so that they can use um loopback address uh whether it's uh 127s slash 8 range uh or as prescribed in 5884 for example uh their range for ipv6 or it can use non-ip encapsulation of bfd so then a bfd control message will follow for example dach immediately and then it can use a tld for identifying their uh source uh does that answer a question yeah i understand it um i agree with what you have said but uh for the for the new uh defined um like the the session id how we use it uh actually we don't know this so oh yeah yes yeah actually that's a very good point and uh we welcome um suggestions and proposals uh we were thinking that um in this document we do not go into their how these fields are used so we just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "define them and their use will be uh defined in a further documents because for example as you noticed flags uh yes we can define some flags or all flags but that might take time so uh we found that it might be more practical to define these flags now and then uh let um further documents to define um and allocate particular flags because for now that's like uh unused and uh i can point that it's the approach that been um used for example in uh srh extension header in ipv6 where uh the srh defined flags uh in this base rfc and then now for example uh their proposal on oem in in srv6 defines one of the flag fields as oem field okay thank you thank you for the uh for the reply and uh i think we i i won't i uh use too much um uh too much too much time here um to uh to waste for the um to waste the at the time for the other presentations but uh let's continue with the let's continue the discussion on the mailing list uh i just want to say it's not quite ready for the working group last call yeah thank you of course let's continue the discussion on melanie west and thank you for your question okay so now i'll try to return some time because this will be another um short presentation i hope shorter than a lot of time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "okay so um let's uh recap what we have proposed for active ip or deadnet ip oem using that net in udp and then i will be looking at how active oem uh can realize a deadnet service sub layer in a deadnet ip environment so with their deathnet in udp encapsulation we have to map the active oem flow with their uh monitor that net flow so that to ensure um their fate sharing and that's it because in ip we have to work with their uh several active oem protocols for example um it's icmp or it's a bfd or it's a performance measurement whether it's a t-ramp or stamp and they usually use a udp destination port or transport encapsulation diff uh that is uh distinct from the death net flow any questions okay now to find fun part uh realizing a deadnet service sub layer for the detonate flow it uses mpls over udp and that's well-known and established uh technique uh for that net oem"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "in this case it also must use mpls over udp and then it's naturally is sharing fate uh with the detmit flow because it can use uh the same ip the same udp and the same mpls encapsulation and then identify their active oem just using the ach and the next slide illustrates that very nicely so as you can see all the transport encapsulation for deadlift flow and active oem are identical and the differentiation only in using um that net control word for the deadline flow or detonate ach for active oem and um your comments suggestions yes little so you know we've talked about this in the past having a solution that leverages mpls over ip is really very straightforward and and makes a lot of sense um but we also need a solution that works when we're not running an mpls data plane and we have no mpls at all uh so really needs a solution that works for native ip and um you know i think that's uh i i think there's room in this document or maybe another document to cover that but it's really important yes i agree okay let me bring it a little bit back here so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "we are following uh the data plane encapsulation so uh that net in udp uh does not realize doesn't um that net uh service sub layer so there's there's um going back to a hallway conversation you and i had walking on the streets of singapore actually uh the a net flow or whether it's a a fully distinguished or an aggregate flow can operate just at the ip header levels uh currently we have it you know the six tuple and uh we it's important to have a solution that also works with that and as i read this it this doesn't work with any six tuple flow it only works with udv and that's yes uh with six top of four okay it then it could be udp and udp no no uh why not why why do you have to do encapsulation you can just do fake sharing with having an aggregate flow um i i suggest uh we talk more about this offline uh okay uh you know it'll be on me to give you that those comments um but i i the point is i think we have to cover the the full six tuple uh native ip flow as well in this document uh and i'm saying that as contributor okay thank you okay uh pascal please reference but greg if you want to work together we can effectively uh see how we can transport oem information natively in ipv6 using basically what we are trying with the option the that net options in my presentation a bit later in this meeting so the idea is uh pretty much like your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "other slide can you go back on slides it's gonna be important can you go back the other slide when yes exactly so in this slide we see that the oim is wrapped up in this case mpls right it's wrapped up on the same envelope um as uh the the the data and this envelope is actually a network construct which um indicates the treatment of of the packets so npls is really pointing on the path and on the treatment and inside that signaling we signal oem so basically the goal would be to do the exact same thing for ip is is have a network layer construct which signals the path the treatment and then inside that thing place one or multiple application flows and oam so yes basically realizing this but over ip without the udp just the two internals that's very interesting so i'm looking forward to your presentation thank you for the comment okay um so i think that uh well we have uh several discussions on the mailing list from these presentations and i appreciate your comments and interest and yes let's continue work thank you okay so this presentation is about the packet ordering function together with my uh co-post obvious here stefan ryan farkas and myself um do i have control all your message to the next slide oh yeah i have you should have control"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:03",
    "text": "excellent sorry okay uh so the actual status is version two of this draft this is describing uh algorithms which can be used for packet ordering function in the deafness service sub-layer so the pocket ordering function is needed because replication and elimination by the characteristics they may result in out of order packet delivery and that can be confusing for some time sensitive applications uh version 2 was presented in the last ietf there were also discussion during the meeting after that in qatartan and also on the on the mailing list and those discussions were about the possible delay variation which is caused by the packet ordering function uh the conclusion of the discussion was that in that net we are building functions uh in order to achieve a given target a given end-to-end uh deterministic characteristics and they are intending to use uh and define building blocks in order to achieve this end-to-end characteristics uh and uh in version 2 it is already stated that it is out of scope how to eliminate the delay variation caused by the packet ordering the text already contains some hints how to do that you can use for example digital buffer or a flow regulator like a shaping function after the functionality uh but the draft is focusing uh exclusively only on the algorithms which are ensuring the packet ordering functions so this is why there was no update in the draft and this uh discussion resulted in that if you intend to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "change the delay variation or or fine-tune the delay variation then you will need additional functions after the off functionality so the content of the of the drastic draft is pretty stable uh we have received many good comments for version one and they were already included in version two which is not stable version from the puff algorithms perspective uh so therefore we think that uh the the document is stable enough and we are looking for having a verb adoption for for this document thank you any questions comments yes thoughtless please well at least you don't have to stand in line here the whole time but you need to click before you go to the microphone no thanks for the for the work um i think the the difficult part that that hasn't been approached now is that uh all this what what i would love to see ultimately is i guess a normative standard yang document that exposes the parameters of whatever puff is being done so that when we go into deployments the the yang model gives us the knowledge that that we can actually build a controller plane that has the necessary information and obviously um such such a young model would have to be built from what we're describing here more informationally and i'm not sure what the processes we're doing and if we even agree on that goal to to getting a normative yang model to to expose all the relevant parameters i think it would be interesting to have such a young model not only for the puff but for all the other service sub layer and forwarding sub layer functions as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "so i think that that is definitely something that is that is needed i i agree with that from from this document perspective we have defined the configuration parameters which which are uh configured for the both algorithms described in this document so the parameters are defined and for the young model i think we are missing not only for both but for other functions as well uh extension to the to the young model that we already have for for that yeah and and and hopefully you know a young model as difficult as yang is to just i mean it still seems to be the the best way for us to standardize the data model is you know i mean that i guess uh yeah um yeah there there's some some yeah thank you i think we're running out of time yeah i'll just remind you both we're contribution driven so a uh a draft that augments our existing yang model model or even a completely independent one if appropriate is always welcome pascal and me the presentation for the slides oh i think i have them okay okay very neat many thanks look um so yeah the this is basically a continuation of the discussion we just had uh on greg's slide about being able to transport multiple types of flow using a network construct that is independent of the application construct so the application constructs read the circuit is is expressed by the five six tuples it retells you what the application flow is and that's what the architecture says on the other hand if we want to be able to transport multiple objects including oam and aggregated flows it might be ideal just like we did for mpls to have a network construct that expresses what the network should be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "doing for this collection of packets regardless of the flows or of the oem data being transported and effectively ipv6 uh provide that sort of constructs uh it's done through extension headers like the hub by hub uh the destination uh information object and and the source routing editor so depending on what you really want to do i mean one or the other of those extension letters is ideal for instance in in the art of ripple and now for vtn ids that was discussed at six months this morning the hub by hub header is being used to express a uh a logical topology i see that craig is speaking already greg do you want me to finish this slide and then you you speak or do you want to speak now i want to be first in the queue okay okay okay so just let me do this slide and and then uh i'll point to you so basically i was saying that um the concept of expressing a a logical topology uh using a hub by hop header as already some history at the atf and there is effectively uh for virtual transport network for instance a draft which is work document at xman which encodes the vtl id into uh hobby hop header in the same fashion repo as the ripple option which is also encoded in hub by hub header to express what we call an instance which is also a virtual topology so if we consider that a path which is a complex beast between a an ingress and negras is is a topology is a logical topology it just makes sense to do what the others do um and and express it as a hobby repeater in particular because we want that every node on the path is as the forwarding stab layer operation so it makes for sense to encode it in half by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "operator the cool thing about operator is that it's completely uh near the it's the first thing after the ipv6 header so if you if you need a other implementation um and that cannot go you know beyond say 64 or 128 bytes then having the robe up header immediately after the ipv6 header allows you to process it in hardware so that's pretty important for forwarding now for for the service sub layer not every hub necessarily processes it it's only the relays so another way of encoding that that could be substitutable is uh using srh which uh source rotator basically which indicates what the relays are and the destination option that provides the service supplier information just before the srh and that actually uh how it's going to be processed by the intermediate hubs which are signaling the srh so basically all we're saying is instead of of looking at the application signaling which is the five double one which can be far far in the packet it might make a lot more sense to to wrap the things we want to process the same way which share a common fade in a layer 3 signaling and and the extension editor are fine for that and greg there we go greg yeah now it's off okay unmuted uh thank you for this um presentation for the uh putting it uh so clearly together uh i've been following discussion in six men on a uh hub by hop uh extension header so my understanding is that yes there is a requirement or i would say probably expectation that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "each node will decide on its own whether it can uh capable of processing a received hub by hub extension header at line rate and if it's not then it will just forward it so as a result or as i understand it the processing of how by hub extension header is not guaranteed unless we tighten our unless we tighten our requirements for the domain for the nodes that are in the main in encapsulations so that we can ensure that in that net ip uh domain with ipv6 data plane uh the processing of uh that net top by hub extension or hubba hub headers that used uh by that net is guaranteed yeah i mean that's the most of the prime you're talking about is because the ipv6 by hop document is for the global internet um as soon as you you're in a local domain uh which is by charter.net uh this prime goes away i mean if you want to deploy that net you will have to have that net support on every router and you will deploy routers which support whatever signaling you place in for that net so the point is not the capability of the routers because for limited domain you will effectively have the right routers whether it's over udp or if it's uh right after the ipv6 header but you might have trouble uh implementing it on other much and silicon if the the that net signaling is beyond the first 64 bytes and that will be a prime because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "if if you are above udp basically for some harder platforms whereas placing it in the hub by half gives you much better guarantee that you can find more routers which are capable of processing it so yes the biop is not guaranteed but that's in the internet at large in your limited domain yes you will deploy the routers which support whatever you want to do and hop by up is actually easier than above your dp yes uh what i think that and that uh probably will discuss it on the mainland list and uh in following discussions is uh the impact or interworking with there are this mechanism and other extension headers for example uh srh okay so uh i will skip the next slide it pretty much shows that you know the uh extension the hub by heart is right after the ipv6 header whereas the transport can be far far away depending on how many other idles you have which which can be a prime in some ip networks where the hardware cannot go too deep inside the packet um so the requirements are twofold uh we've got all the redundancy in the service tab layer and we've got what i was talking about the envelope of your multiple uh application flows plus oam and so that's that's why we have two different types of options proposed in the document three tests of time i'm moving on so um yeah that we insist in the draft and i guess the raw architectural system that as well not to to to confuse what we call the water and what we call the pipe the water is the application flows and and there is signaling for that which is really under the control of the application in the network we don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "control uh the tagging of uh uh of the ports and and the upper layer protocol that signal the application flow so using them inside the network is actually um sometimes complicated whereas having like mpls our own tag in the packets which we can use to to to find our state and our operation is a lot easier so so that's really a reason why we we want to place it in a hub by a hub as opposed to leveraging the five double the other problem with the five tuple is you would need a five to four inside the five topol if you want to merge oam and other and the application flows here we are a lot more economical because we just place a tag which which basically indicates the virtual topology that you want to follow and yes um current version is seven so we we added effectively to to greg's point uh some text uh regarding the various encapsulation and the placement of the headers so greg if you look at the new text and the submission by fan and fun joined as co-author um and then we we in section in seven we uh enrich the application section so we position better versus the debt and architecture which shows it's a good fit and it's time to stop but basically many thanks to alice and brian for the comments and uh we'll publish very soon the new version which incorporates that and i'm pretty much done if we have any question oh and thanks for cheering us we don't really have time unfortunately for questions uh i think this is really interesting work um we do have room in our charter for uh more enhanced or uh actually not even more enhanced this was just a more sophisticated uh data plane ip data plane support we always called the original five tuple the simplified approach so this this certainly fits in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "whether or not you use hop by hop or maybe even flow id i know that's not uh uh that's being frowned upon but uh it it would be good to talk over with influence when you say it flower you mean yeah the problem with flow labor and and five topo it's it's the end point decision so it's for one flow for the next flow that wants to fair shade to to surface well i don't know share the same fate you have a pride of signaling uh we should leave the endpoint application level stuff to the end points and and do our own construct for the network just like mpls does it makes a lot more sense sure but it would be good to socialize the uh the idea also in sixth man um oh yes oh yeah oh yeah and the vtn id is being socialized and this morning i asked a question effectively on that because we are doing the same thing in role in in well you know what he is right that's great we should move on pascal we should move on uh thank you very much appreciate it and for the next presenter i think you're squeezed down to eight minutes and uh okay i'm handing you slide control now okay okay this is panel from china mobile and it is a requirement of lightsaber vietnamese network exercise please okay another size uh you have control on the bottom you should be able to select just underneath the slide okay okay yeah i'll say it that's it yeah um okay uh first is the recap but i can't see it clearly yeah i can't either um uh yeah i guess i'm trying to is there any problem yes but but like i could actually say um the cap and motivation it was presented first in the interim without a draft but absorbed some good points from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "the earlier draft and since there was a positive feedback we submit and presented a new draft based on the slides last meeting and before this meeting we merged another requirement draft according to chess suggestion and addressed the comments in the last meeting and offline so the motivation of the document is to point out different aspects in large skills and mystical network such as magnesium and also has a little others okay oh good and some facts are that the domestic network prototypes and the trials have been performed based on the the pro pro predatory mechanisms in logistical network and the experience from them will use that as the input to this document next time i control it by myself so forget it and uh from the last meeting got some comments and those uh uh other updates uh we merged another requirement draft had two technical requirements show the internet two slides and the ad an example of in electric mix and telecommunic communications research into and move to the example of the trial to appendix for reference based on the contribution added tolerance chain and jingdom has cursors and also removes these two based on the comments so this is the first to added requirements support configuration of multiple queuing mechanisms um there will be the level uh servers fight determines the traffic flow for what is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "based on different mechanism in some network device of flight square network and for instance the network aggregation device may need to support both ts and ats so the network device shows the ports multiple parameters and the coding is unified or simplified configuration and management i expected to be support so for the distributed and centralized scenarios some simple requirements for the advertising or some resource topological when needed and this is the second added requirement uh is to support current mechanisms which over cross multi-domains um it may cross multi-domains and adopt a variety of different mechanisms within instrument so it is required to support the interdependent mechanisms at inter domain boundary nodes such as a priority but redefinition and rescheduling of cues moreover changing from the one queuing mechanism to another may generate additional end-to-end latency or data so a collaboration mechanisms of course multidimensions must be considered such as the increasing buffer or interdependent device to provide enough adjustment space for the flow to across different magnets and this is the appendix about the trials um here's a new remote industrial internet of things service of eti and data through three different operators network and demonstrates the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "real-time with a smart factory and the low latency and from the jitter showed here so some thicker way is that strong motivations and demand on the enhancements about life skill than that and the pro battery uh mechanisms coexist with uh thunder technology in trials so there might be some enhancement to support it and then here is the overall technique requirements and first a thoroughly time uh synchronization um considering the in the large-scale network there might be some device comes about the synchronization and the second one is supports the large-scale single-hook propagation latency brings long-distance latency to support it and the third one is accommodates a higher inner speed and force is key over to numerous network devices and massive traffic flows and the fifth tolerant figures of links or notes and topology changes because those will bring maybe second levels latency additionally yes and six and seven was introduced before so next is that um considering the recharger of the wg we extract some potential data plan uh implications from the requirements the first is a uh ipv6 extend header based enhancement to supports the native app basic network and currently there is no change of the extension headers and the second is the array don't say related files for the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "free off then ps data plan uh suppose while the native ipv6 data plan doesn't have the files okay third one is for the aggregation um flow identification um the ipv6 aggregate flow identification is supposed by five or six turbo ib uh prefix or wheel cards it is a local window that works more but in english skills the number of individual flow charts that may randomly join and leave the uh aggregated flow um so in some cases the flow can't be identified by the predictor with the cards finally is some conclusion about the queue related information to be considered such as cycle specification or the time step or time information like fields so next is since they dropped up absorbed the earlier draft merge another requirement dropped and got enough discussion the notification and online offline would like to request for an adoption call as a start point for the enhanced requirements document thanks and any comments unfortunately we don't have time for more discussion um so others it would be good to uh if you have comments take it to the list i'm particularly interested in if we're missing requirements uh you know we showed on the milestones that we would like to get a document to on enhanced data plane uh this seems to be the one that is the likely candidate uh so we'd like to see some more discussion and probably poll uh for adoption as soon as next month um so thank you very much for this uh contribution okay thank you next up i believe is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "uh twirlis oops i hit the wrong one uh twereless you're in the room do you want someone else to advance for you where do you have the the app i'll give it to maybe luis if you don't mind advancing right this the sound is so echoey it's really hard to understand uh next slide or first light sorry i need to manage this probably yes all right so uh wanted to re-summarize um the high level what we're trying to achieve here next slide um so we think we need according to the you know previous presentation a uh standardized bounded latency solution for large-scale high-speed networks um and if we look at what we you know are kind of under the hood thinking of being available today that has been proven i think we have um the guaranteed services from rsc 2212 and tsn ats as the two mechanisms that i think people who have worked in tsn no we don't have the yang models um there is a proposal for rspdp for that but if we look at both of these queuing mechanisms they really have three core issues right so one is the insufficiency for applications because of the fact that they have the maximum jitter because it's load dependent and that may lead to a lot more complicated applications with clock synchronization on small iot end endpoints as opposed to only in the network the second one is the um an expensive scalability because of the per hop state required in service provider networks and then of course kind of like as a follow-up the non-applicability"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "to um current and future uh forwarding planes that can operate stateless like sr mpls srv6 and for multicast beer or other similar upcoming ones so those are the three big limitations of these uh well-known um queuing mechanism next slide so and then there is tsn cyclic queuing and forwarding which is another um tsn proven standardized solution and that solves problem one and two but it doesn't really work for high speed or wide area networks because the cycles on adjacent nodes need to be matched by the synchronized clock so that means that they don't support arbitrary length with the latency and jitter and require an extremely high clock accuracy linear to the speed of the network so so far to the best of my knowledge that has been proven to only work up to 10 gigabit per second so that brings us to the uh wrong indented tech cycling and queuing forwarding that we're proposing which is really an enhanced version of the cyclic and queuing from tsn um and it solves that high speed when link issues by carrying the cycle identity type identifier not just internally in the node and updated by the clock but it's in the packet and that basically makes it easy to support arbitrary latency links even with jitter and there are high-speed implementations as proof-of-concept pre-standard um obviously uh with uh equal to or larger than 100 gigabit interfaces and deployed for testing in a 2 000 mile long network in china next slide so we we talked about this on the last session it's also in the draft it kind of explains how the more cycles you configure into the solution the more leniency you have against latency variation or time interval areas in your clock synchronization protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "so basically uh it's it's also flexible in so far is that it can um you know by mean of configuration of more than three cycles uh accommodate for more uh variances next slide so right so the draft that we have um was the attempt to try to get two things out of it right so one is to propose a standard tcqf mechanism with the per-hop state machinery that could support any type of tagging even you know different hubs along the network could use different tagging like one uses ip the other mpls not that that's realistic in current networks and then really only standardize here the one tagging that we know we can do without expanding any forwarding plane but just using the one forwarding plane we already have almost everything else which is the mpls forwarding plane with the traffic class field which just relies on rfc 3270 and that's the easiest to operationalize uh thing and this is what we this is the draft we want to ask.net to adopt as a working group draft um next slide and so then obviously there is the question of what's the adjacent work right so obviously we want the yang model to specify the configurability there is the open question of the ingress policing into the network which i think is a general purpose issue in the case of this queuing it's not only the policing but there is a tagging with the appropriate cycle added to it as an edit requirement but i think it could go either into this document as a as a section that hasn't been written yet or it could be a separate document and then of course we could equally then once we agree in that net that this is a scheduling queuing mechanism that we do want to support i think much more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "easily code to other working groups accordingly um right the tagging for others one like dscp probably with tsvwg and then of course the whole question of how do we do it with srv6 where we may want to have a source routing header that per hop indicates the the tag something i think where even an old and draft existed right but to me that's adjacent work just bring it up to the point here that it is relevant to you know the adoption call for for for this draft which we would like to have and i think that's it next slide i think that yep thank you very much uh thank you trois for this work as we mentioned we're going to give some time for other solutions to be proposed before considering adoption probably around the next ietf is when we'll look to do adoption of solutions for treatment enhancements but of course any anything that you know people would like to see improved on the document right as as early as possible do you do you hear me uh yes torellis was just making a comment if you could let him just finish his comment and then and then go tour list do you want to make her finish your comment i know that that was is right so thanks okay thanks uh go ahead okay uh thank you my question is not only for dollars but all but also for chairs and do do we plan to adopt one data plane solution for a qm mechanism or uh it or it may be better to define uh try to define a generic data plane solution to cover all kinds of uh cream mechanisms um because the this this draft has mentioned ipv6 nps and srv6 for the tcqf"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:04",
    "text": "and we maybe we have other queueing mechanisms then we will have many uh display solutions so if my answer to that would be that i would hope that the debt networking group has space for multiple you know bounded latency queuing or scheduling mechanism as we want to call them i was just thinking that this one would be the one that would be most easy to justify as a standardizing first because we've got the deployment experience it's derived from something that has even more deployment experience with psn so i mean we have nice research work for something that we you know think might long term be even better but where you know high-speed hardware implementation experience is missing so and it may be the same would be a problem probably true for for other cool ideas that are being brought to that net so maybe we should look at you know the realistic uh timeline of adoption in actual uh high-speed networks as as a factor to guide us but not uh prohibit something to happen yeah and quan i think you're actually getting at the point that there's a difference between queuing and marking and um the uh the data the mark marking tends to be data plane specific and we would expect that to be in individual documents the base queueing mechanism could be in a shared document or even show up in the in one document one data plane document first and then be referenced um by subsequent ones we do see that there's um definitely different data planes were managing uh and there we uh talked about this being there being a first document for a solution and that we may entertain multiple but as usual as i said multiple times we're contribution driven so if you have an alternative um it'd be really interesting to see see the uh contribution on that and there is time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "before we talk about adoption on this one specifically to to allow for more documents to be published and with that we really any subsequent discussion has to go to the list and we need to move on to the next presentations where they won't have any time so let's be fair to them no no let's be fair to the others please and uh move on so i think uh uh i'm not sure who's presenting next uh but i'm sorry not that somebody opened the doors again in the room and i don't hear you because there is all this noise coming in from the outside so it's really ah okay i'm sorry i can't uh sorry about that uh so you should be able to present we don't hear you so we're going to skip this presentation and come back to the person at the end hopefully they can fix their mic problems between now and then my apologies but we can't hear you so we're going to [Music] the one-way delay measurement uh high chair can you hear me uh yes you sound something and you should have yeah thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "uh yeah yeah thank you um okay uh next page please and from channel yeah you have controls at the bottom of your screen okay thank you very much sorry so um today i'm gonna give a presentation about the uh my draft on the uh reference delay-based mechanism about the along with the delay measurement so one delay marine is very important and uh is a great performance indicator for sla guarantee and especially for some scenarios in 5g network so owd the one with that delay environment is not novel research many studies have been down in years before and especially some offices also been published in ip performance environment group but our proposal is quite different and so it's based on a prerequisite about the net so that's why we want to you know predict this in needs in that net group so uh you can see that the current deployment of the uh one-way delay measurement uh deployment is always is all usually based on some uh clock synchronization you can then such as pdp or gps but the deployment cost is quite high or uh if what if you want to do some approximate measurement you usually use rdt half of the idt but it's not accurate for the uh some scenarios so our proposal introduces a new method to accurately mirror end-to-end one-way delay so without using the clock synchronization and it only uses a reference delay based on the deterministic path inside the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "network and the network latency is quite uh it's guaranteed and has very low jitter so as as you can see in the typical network topology we uh deploy uh uh between the sender and the receiver we have a clock offset we need to first send a reference packet from the sender to the receiver and then follow following we we want to measure the target packet and between the center and the receiver so there is a clock offset between the sender and the receiver and you know for the reference packet uh it is uh then through uh deterministic path so that it means that the uh the delay is uh known before it's based on the uh that and uh and the target package is what we want to marry so we just need to uh record uh the the send the send time the reference packet and target packet and then the similar and the arrival time and the timestamp of the uh both the packets so uh our calculation method as shown here is only has two equations we can uh we know that uh the the reference delay uh can be calculated inside the uh at the very beginning by uh at the very beginning and it won't be changed during the measurement and the offset the offset one and offset 2 can be seen as equal when we send the the reference packet and target passes uh the the interval is quite short so we can assume that both off test is the same so we can use equation one and equation two to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:01",
    "text": "uh derive to the the third quad equation where the target uh delay between the center and the receiver is determined by the full timestamps i recorded i at the both end and the delay reference delay so all of the five values are known so here that the target delay can be calculated so our method uh here are some measurement procedures i want to explain it in detail you can see in my uh draft and the the time stamp can can be also encapsulated in normal uh in normal format and uh and you can insert it inside that tcp header and between the dot and the payload and tcp header and also so um yeah so our uh so i want to sum up with my proposal so our mechanism don't has no need to deploy uh time discrimination so that's the biggest you know the um i mean the vented point of our proposal yeah so you can largely reduce the deployment cost of accurate one-way delay measurement compared to the current or state-of-the-art environment in canada so it also has no impact on intermediate network devices it's only you you don't need to care about the the uh intermediate network path uh just that you need to know that it you have a deterministic path uh between the two end and the target package might not send through the the deterministic path it can can be sent through some uh different path i mean between the sender and the receiver so you can you you can use the delay uh i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "reference delay to uh to calculate the the measurement path uh and the the target path so uh so yeah that's my uh major concern to propose it in that net thank you so if you are interested in my uh i mean my proposal you can uh talk to me um yeah yeah one also uh you are welcome drawing to our work so any questions i see that some um some friends are raising their hands in the queue so let's try to get very brief on the questions and the responses and then continue on the list uh greg thanks i just want to note that um clock synchronization uh helps uh with their uh or mitigate uh their uh instability of the timers so uh without clock synchronization the network of the timers might fluctuate differently and skew so it not be a constant difference between clocks and different nodes but it will be floating so that much more challenging and difficult thank you thanks i think in fairness to the others we have to take the questions on the list and give them an opportunity to to talk in the remaining uh 10 minutes if that's okay uh uh to dean and uh dan and uh bing yang yeah sure we can talk via chat chat box or you can send me emails uh yeah thank you okay we're going to try again uh if uh uh shampoo if you could say something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "uh he said that his local test passed but we are still not hearing you um hello yes we hear you excellent uh you have five minutes oh uh so i will have to uh this representation quickly we introduced a specific solution that uh about uh basis forwarding next you have controls at the bottom of your screen so the motivations internet architecture defines whose goals we know that our boundary delegate abundant private law simulation bonded out of ordinary and use to resource resolution explicit diluting and service protection to achieve these goals uh resource resolution is the basis of insuring bonding delegita and ultimately depends on the crew mechanism of the floating plane uh the wide and use the priority basically scheme making whether or not it's about with worst case related thus enhancement scheme of before pq is proposed um okay uh this page is about the deadline clues the total anchors are violent of people and also based on our already skilled in it uh there are several attributes of the terminal cursor all right now gives how tdl attributes staggered from each other decreasing with the passage of time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "and the third night with ddr0 has the highest priority heighten the existence jiggled for all his priorities sub secondly zero will be reversed to the maximum initial uh the third with tdlo non-zero has a normal priority for end time policy and the proliferation and already for anthem policy the former can be involved in skilled in while the later canada and the figure the following figures a simple example of that code that it contains four delanaku each we see satellite attributes zero one two three uh after the time of the passage of time or for example one microseconds the tdu actually will be changed so next um okay so this page is about how to put pages to the description is mainly included booster but the first uh good at the denial information over the package including the planned terminal now the planetarium can be computed uh by under under delay minus the accumulated delay violation by one caused by one absolutely uh this information came together from a package itself second the product package uh the allowable skills plus the accumulated denomination minus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:03",
    "text": "property we are putting to the cru with ddl attribute consistent with one of q the following uh figure shows a simple example so i will go next so that is about the traffic location and the shipping traffic regulation and ui board to ensure that the reserve abundance underwater of service is not exceeded control and world ingress traffic shipping is an eye port to distribute the package into the deadline the following figure shows a six part from the same deterministic service are received on the ui problem assuming that they arrive at the outgoing port one by one after internet of delay uh forwarding delay f each part we under the queue with ddl one consistent with a low possible delay of the target at least current time so next uh this page is about the benefits of this specific solution please please please try to wrap up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:03",
    "text": "okay uh for the coast time synchronization is not required because network nodes operate based on relative time deployment a pragmatic collection base is an enhancement of bigger scheduling algorithm from the network upgrade each node can independently set the authorization time of the deadline crews based on several port bandwidths support partial upgrade scalability a single set of dynamic users support multiple levels of residence time performance could data control just a single authorization okay so for next hope we welcome any questions and comments thank you yeah very interesting work thank you for bringing it to the working group it'd be good to see if there's comments on the list and we're on the last presentation the remainder of the time is yours okay uh thank you lou this is specification for that let's bend in an entity uh in general it is required to consider the vantage latency for a past selection to achieve the net cues first as per the death net controller play framework explicit paths should be calculated and established in control play to guarantee their deterministic the deterministic transmission so first the end to end bend independency concentrates should be taken into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "consideration in past consider computation and second as per the atlantic bended lantern sea the end to end uh delay bands can be presented as the sum of a long queueing delay and the queuing delay along the path so the queueing mechanisms and the parameters should be determined during past computation so this drug disrupt described the extensions to precept to carry bundle latency constraints and distribute deterministic passes for end-to-end pass computation in deadline surface so we proposed some precept extensions first uh is the metric object we proposed two liu types over metric object first is the end to end abandonment latency in the p uh the pc pcc uh indicate uh carry the end-to-end validity metric uh to indicate um the end-to-end band in latency constraint in past computation their end to end bending jitter is the same with their uh bending their latency and second we also propose the iosp and extended flag tle we propose b bit to indicate under a deterministic pass capability finally we uh proposed to extend the uh ero and the srero to distribute the past computation uh we proposed the new information structure uh for example we uh proposed the death knight sub trv and the cycles of qre for different uh viewing mechanisms"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "so last step uh we we hope that later to uh determine this work could be done in data or pcwg comments and suggestions are very welcome thank you thank you for this i would suggest bringing it to pce as well and it's likely that they're going to ask for this working group to agree that it's good work and then once there's general agreement that by the working group here that there's interest in it we can coordinate with the pce chairs as to which working group does the actual work uh but thank you you know this is uh new work and it clearly needs to be discussed by the working group to decide if it's uh something that the the group is interested in uh so thank you um we're we're just now at time so apologize to those at the end who got squeezed on time and appreciate you shortening things up um and this takes us uh uh to the end of the session and uh really look forward to seeing everyone hopefully in person uh in philadelphia at the next ietf uh janos anything else nothing nothing else you said all thank you everybody for the contributions absolutely and also thank you luis for helping us out in the room"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:15",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
