[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "seconds In 15 seconds. In 15 seconds? Hey, fine a pretty. Yeah. All right, shut up and sit down Good evening You're not chair anymore, right? Get to the back of the room. Who's in the record? Shut up good anymore, right? Get to the back of the room. That was in the record and show. Oh, good. Yeah, all right, we'll love It's been a long bit room. That was in the record, you shut up. Oh, good. Yeah, all right, well, love. It's been a long day. So, welcome to JMAP at IET 120 At this point in the week, we hope that you have read the note well well, but we will once again emphasize that there are a number of things that you need to acknowledge with respect to our process, IPR, anti-harassment procedures, code of conduct copyrights, and so forth that if you aren't familiar with those, you really owe it to yourselves to read those things, and in particular, probably if you haven't read them at this point, you should probably not say anything. Yeah, I did like me Murray's. You have the right to remain silent anything you say can and will be used by the IETF Oh, that's good. A short version of it And this is, another kind of emphasis of the guidelines for conduct and anti-harassment procedures And if you feel like you're being harassed or witness to it, then you should probably talk with the Ombuds team or perhaps with the executive director Please log into the session via Datatracker. We like to know how many people are here and not have it seemed like there are fewer people interested in GMAP than they're actually"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "are And we will ask you to indicate if you want to say something by joining the mic queue, and that makes it fairer for people who are remote and can't physically stand up behind the microphone Please keep your audio and video off unless you're actually speaking speaking So this is probably stuff that you have already seen, resources And so, first item is we have some IANA registries that we need to discuss expert reviewers for because the expert reviewers are kind of I don't know, I won't say expiring, it makes it sound like you're dying but they're not active active And we're going to go through our active documents, both the ones that are with the IESG and the ones that are currently with us and also discuss what needs to happen with some of the experiments So, yeah so this is the first question that's come up We have a document that's currently delayed We're missing lots of people. Neil will be here in a few minutes. Murray will be here in a few minutes We have our list of expert reviewers, which we started off by having the tour authors of the core draft. But Chris has become busy with other things and is not responsive to IETF at the moment and Neil, of course, is the author of the draft that's currently waiting on IANA. I think it would be really good to have two more expert reviews who are not fast male people and either remove chris box just leave him on there as optional because it is one reviewer required"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Ken, Fiona I know we don't want to have multiple people from one company, but I would like to now nominate either Hans York or somebody from Andrega to be an extra review. I know they're pretty in don't want to have multiple people from one company, but I would like to nominate either Hans York or somebody from Andriga to be an expert view. I know they're pretty, and they're very excited about J-MAP and I think they've read the specs and used the specs enough to, qualify qualify I see Hans-Yerk smiling Hi It's already me in the queue. Good morning Good morning. Good evening. I would volunteer. Thank you you Okay. Recommendations will be made made and it looked like I saw aren't to raise his hand there Yeah, everybody, you get it there there there reading my an things and vaccines. So if you want a third, George, just a head and I, but if you want a third, with you was turn okay well since Arndt was off microphone he'll say you're yours is good, but if you want a third, so that he will volunteer, so I think that's probably a good idea All right, that sounds like we have enough volunteers. Thank you. I will ask my Murray when he shows up to add the two of you yes reviewers All right, Neil is not here yet He's author on three of these. Ken is the author on the other one, I think, Siv Yeah, J-M-Siv wen lin here yet. And is author on three of these. Ken is the author on the other one, I think, Siv. Yeah, J-MAP SIV went into the editor Q on Monday, I think I got the email, which I think means they're looking at it, they're not actually doing anything specific with it, but it's there Yeah, and there's nothing we need to care about. That's the group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Okay, we'll catch up with Neil on the others when he gets here All right, web push rapid I'm pretty sure the author is not here I did send him an email asking if he was had anything just today following up on it because he was not responsive to either of the reviews that happened back in Brisbane or the follow-up messages from that. So I guess we'll have to see what he's up to Thanks, Philip, for more feedback on it today Yeah, I'm keen for it to get out but i guess the only question there is if we can't get the existing author to work on it, whether we appoint new authors to work on this or not, because otherwise the work is just sitting around I'll ask our director for a guidance on that Are you asking whether about procedure for this? Yeah I can tell you the procedure. Okay as a working group chairs you are able to reassign editors Cool. That's part of your powers I'll give him a few weeks Ken, if you can't reach them, I'd be willing to help edit that that and Neil is in the queue now Yeah, I think I read Phillips response and I think that actually probably is sufficient for key rotation so we may not need any change other than some advice on how to detect it but I'll reply on the list I didn't catch on with it, but. All right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "let's move Well, since Neil's here, let's go back and talk about the calendars contacts and sharing documents Again, there's not much to say I think. As far as I know, they're all ready I need to do a few an tweet on the calendar, one that Murray flagged But other than that, I don't believe anything's outstanding from me or the working group Cool Okay So I guess the only action there is for Neil to make edit that Murray flag And the action course, we need the new people to approve the ANA things for the registry Oh, yeah, Murray's just going to take care of that, but we have two new people who have volunteered Yoris and aren't to be reviewers as well so that will give us a wide group of reviewers for any future documents Action for Web Push vapid is Bron to try and contact author Go ahead, Alexie. Oh, I just Oh, right of course All right. Um, um, essential portability and rest Was there anything that I think that was No, well, you had S-Fime Center extension. No, this still those other active documents were pushback, but it was the first one, but there are others, I think, back on the previous slide. Yep no previous slide from that maybe. No, okay, I didn't, I didn't put in slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "to them because yours has them. That's right. Okay. Let's switch to yours. Switch to Yorus. Okay yeah, unshare or share the other slides Okay, your slides are up, your SD Do you want control? Yeah I never tried that, I think Give it a try Seems to work Yeah, okay, perfect Yeah, so basically, yeah are the updates on all my drafts I hear myself twice a bit, but I think it's fine Can you move your microphone? slightly further from your mouth? It's super loud in here All right, wait. Is it better like that? Yeah, much better. Thank you. All right. Perfect Good Okay. So, yeah basically I combined all the draft updates in a single presentation this time mainly because not that much happened So, well, wait. Yeah. So this is an update on Jamab Essential, portability extensions, rest and the tasks specs For Jamab Essential, there was some feedback at last IETF for mainly for renaming it, so we can emphasize the broader use case beyond the portability use case And I think this document should be quite ready ready I want to do some finishing touches maybe until the next IETF and I think it should be ready for a working group last call next IT IETF Yeah, if anybody has any feedback here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "is there any reason to wait that long? Is this just your time we can do work group last call between meetings um um to wait that long? Is this just your time? We can do work with last call between meetings. For me, I'm not sure so we we started implementing this but i'm not sure if the implementation experience we already have is fine enough. I would need to have it double check that And also, yeah, there's just one minor thing that's still on my to-do list. Yeah, we could do it in between if that's the favorite approach Yeah, unless there's a lot that needs to be done with it i mean you can put some finishing touches on before we do the last call but it i mean it doesn't seem like it there would be that much that we should hold up last call for a whole IETF period all right Sounds good Yeah. All right. Then I'm going to go to the next spec But before you do, you do have some changes you want to make like one more revision before we go to last call or is it ready now? I would say one more revision. Okay, great. But it's not much it's mainly um being more clear on what the basic definition here means. Cool I've ministered to us to publish another revision Thank you. All right so on the portability extensions I addressed some minor nits that can roll to the list The things that Neil commented are still on my two list. So yeah I need to follow up on that that And regarding the other specs, Jamabrest is still"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "in a more or less unhappy state with comments from three different people that I need to address and jamab tasks is also still awaiting updates There has not been any progress on this for quite some time on my and JEMAP tasks is also still awaiting updates. There has not been any progress on this for quite some time. Yeah, on my to-do list, definitely And that's actually it So all four of these are going to require another document update, I guess, before we go to last call Is there anything that the rest of the working group can help you with on any of them? Hmm Not sure Like, not really. I'm sorry I have enough comments I think, to work them in Like, it has been reviewed so it's mainly on me and Hansiuk to include the changes. Cool Okay, Hansiur, did you have a comment? comment? So this is Hans-Yerke. So regarding a bronze question I think one of the main things we have outstanding for the JPEA pass was that we also wanted to discuss with vendors the tasks data model in a certain way because you know we already presented an earlier IETFs and with vendors the tasks data model in a certain way because you know we already presented an earlier IETF that there is can you hear me yeah that there is um tasks as in typical group vessels systems, but also tasks as in you know, other kind of systems And it would just be good to have some more vendor feedback here Certainly we also want to reach out to some, but also feel free i think to check that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "draft and probably also no other people that might be interested. I think that's would be, it's one of the main things for the draft actually too provide some more awareness also to people that are probably not so typical chamber abusers right now All right So I guess that's an action for everybody Talk with any tasks vendors, you know Thank you All right S-MIM sender extensions. Alexi, anything? new there? Nothing to report. I haven't done anything Thank you we can help you with on that writing time I had spare time I'd be on a beach somewhere, getting sunburned like I did last week That's the agenda That is everything we had. We had tasks we've already covered I was just reading the comments about, CalX. Yeah, Calix tasks is still pending as well, waiting on us following up with Mark Douglas on that I think that's the status for Calix tasks, Ken was that we were waiting on Mike to post a revised draft We're waiting on Mike. We're also waiting to get feedback from DHL who had posted some IPR I think a lot of them have been revoked There's still one outstanding patent claim and I want to see Singapore or something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "We're trying to get confirmation of whether that's still active and whether it covers the actual data format elements or just the exact that they use to show off the data format elements This example will change the examples Yeah, all right. So but so far, D that they use to show off the data format elements. Because this examples will change the examples. Yeah, all right, so, but so far DHL has been non-responsive after the first go-round All right That's another working group thing anyway, but I'll pull up on that. A few later Thank you Michael, milestone reviews So do you want to share? or actually no if you unshare maybe I can share my screen that might be easier easier Yeah, you're the wizard with the Datatracker milestones thing All right, we get the infinite zoom and then over here to the milestones So we're pushed vapid has been kicked forwards forwards I think we should be able to get that published We'll get it to IESG by September That gives us two months. It's really just a matter of getting in contact with the authors and either revising it or getting it edited SMOM sender extensions, Alexi How far do you want to keep this can down the road?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:06",
    "text": "Cool. Jam it Jamit I can try to try to send about that. Just without this thing. Yeah, it'll be by Christmas one year. All right Jamap tasks. What do we think? Here, Commissioner comes yours. Yeah it. I would say, yeah beginning of next year or something. Yeah, February is good gives us a chance to notice we've missed it in the March IETF. Adopted document for JAMAP archive format. This is something that we kind of forgot about i think we were going to do a interchange archiv format for JAMAP JMAP You can't do it to know We'll see you together is your like ashes on my head if this is correct English. So again, talking to people, this IETF, this seems to be something people have a lot of interest in and it's on my stack and also Alexei volunteered I think last time already, to help on this So, yeah, we, we, what's it? group can help is to more force us more on starting on this, probably yeah we promise we really really will do it All right quote the number of brief. I'm going to expect you to have something to me by October, which is in advance the next IETF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "So we'll adopt it. We can discuss it there Portability guide, minimal profile. That one's sounded like it's closer to ready So, um, Portability guide, minimal profile. That one sounded like it's closer to ready. So I'll say November, which means by next IETF, we should be able to last call it and submit it Rest mapping document I would say make it similar to time Similar to tasks, all right yeah portability extend right. Portability extensions. That could be next IETF. Next IETF as well Cool Do we have any new milestones that have come up? out of all of this work? I want to do some any new milestones that have come up out of all of this work? I want to do something around JAMAP files access so Dropbox type API but I think likely I'll bring something to next IETF if I get all organized for that and then we'll discuss adding it there So that's fine and it changes, I would change the time on everything. We have no new milestones done. Sweet Any other business? So many controversies this meeting All right, raise your hands now or see you in Dublin And we managed to finish before Murray even got back That's right. I'll ask him to just check my actions here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "for that Sorry? No, we have 30 minutes. We've got time in a very short time All right, you've got 35 minutes of drinking time left except Ken who's got 30 minutes of getting to the airport in time for his multiple hours delayed flight time. Has I fixed the light yet? You're flying American, right? You might be all right. Cool. Thanks everyone See ya Reminds me how you hope for fear that works ya Stop here share. Sweet"
  }
]
