[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "up-gunned I\u0027m going to do that so everybody seen the note well yet anybody not see the note well yet I didn\u0027t think so all right so we have a pretty packed agenda today with lots of excitement discussing some working group documents going through some errata and then a couple of new items including some discussion about reach ordering for some additional items so does anybody have any changes to the agenda that they anticipate okay then let\u0027s get going so we have a couple documents that have been going through the working group process one of them is ETL s13 I think John Madson is online and if he wants to come up and present he can do that the owner so maybe I can quickly go through what has changed in the latest version what were the comments we received in the last call and what steps do we plan to take about it so so basically we agreed that will remove all the text on other TLS base type method so there are or now now he\u0027s hi yeah do you hear me yeah we can hear em great yeah yes didn\u0027t know how to end the presentation mode so yeah we removed all the text about other TLS based method according to the decision last meeting this should move to a separate draft probably dropped the cookie mu till SCP types that will be discussed later we added reference to draw the idft as old versions this is a draft in the TLS working group that is updating or fc5 t16 and prohibits use and negotiation of TLS 1.0 and 1 TLS 1.2 bomb so this the TLS 103 draft now reference that and describes this update it also slightly changed the language in the text to not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:09",
    "text": "refer to TLS 102 or earlier as they are or soon will be forbidden to negotiate in any use of TLS then there is a new section on hello retry request that\u0027s very straight forward it just describes this new hello retry requests the message that TLS 103 introduces so nobody is so Christ there are several changes based on the review by yim shot I think there is nothing major there\u0027s some editorial recordings and there are some technical rewording changing from what not to do to instead what to do and then there are updated requirements on the ll be tested by Oleg and what was decided was to decide what to do but to be flexible in what clients and servers accept and this draft went to working less cold without any comments but after the working group that\u0027s cold was coming by uni Malinin and the comments where yeah so comments were about the use of the empty TLS record as you could see on the last lurid the TLS 103 allows you to send this in two different ways either with the and the problems here is that open SSL does not support everything in TLS 103 it does not support you to send completely empty TLS record and it also it does not currently support the server sending early application data without an ex declined first a sent an extension so this needs to be sold somehow and also think we can go to the next slide and then Joni also had more editorial comments that needs to be changed that the language it\u0027s not really empty and we should change it to a better technical description and also that there\u0027s slightly different wording in the text and the figures that should be fixed but they\u0027re two problems that we need today decisions on and Joanie and Alan had quite good discussion on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:11",
    "text": "list so the first problem is that OpenSSL 1.1.1 does not support an empty empty string to be sent as application data Jonas just use one byte with zeros instead and I think Ireland agreed that that was a good and there is what needs to be decided here in the group is do we go with this approach and then do we go with a single solution or do we allow the current to or in Surbiton to send several the server to some different things and also what how should the client react if the server some something unexpected should it ignore it or him so I think it would be boarding discussion on the list was to maybe allow both I think it would be good to have it as strict as possible maybe I would suggest going for it zero X zero zero only describe that that is what you shall do but then maybe write that you accept anything else also I would I\u0027m hesitant to talk about this as a future extension mechanism any comments on this so my I agree we should be as strict as possible but also define how the implementation should behave when things don\u0027t go as expected so sending one byte of zeroes is fine anything else I think there was some some comment on the list saying that perhaps that could indicate that there is other post handshake messages that that the server is trying to send I think it makes the implementation more complex because now you are in this state that there may be more messages coming so I I I would prefer to keep this more strict than just say that once you are done send this one byte of zero is to say that okay that\u0027s the end of the handshake so let\u0027s try to update a draft with this if you have any further comments on the list as soon as possible then the second problem we need to discuss is that open SSL does not support the server to send early application data to a unauthenticated client unless the client has sent the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "early data extension and the client has send early data if I understand the comments on the list fortunately this can be we don\u0027t really know if open SSL will support change its behavior in the future and support this feature in terrace poetry or not but you can get around this by forcing the server to use send a new session ticket so we don\u0027t really really need any changes to the specification should we talk comment this in some way yes some short note somewhere that if at the writing time of writing this draw song implementation does not support this and then it can be solved by forcing a new session ticket or some other post handshake message Jim shot I don\u0027t like the ideas to need a new session ticket because the server may not actually want to send a session ticket I also don\u0027t understand why you think this is a problem because in the OpenSSL case they can send the they can send this message after the quiet authenticates they just have to send a send a data record which says I\u0027m done we\u0027re not going to do anything more it doesn\u0027t matter whether it comes before or after the client authenticates but the EP s103 documentation right now says that you must if you don\u0027t sending any post handshake you must send an empty application data to let the client know the EAP state it should be in that it does not have to send that message before the client authentication messages come it can send that afterwards it\u0027s just the first authenticated message from the server to the client it doesn\u0027t matter where in the sequence it comes I then we need to if that if to allow dot we need to rewrite the specification I don\u0027t know how that match with the EAP state machine maybe works I mean if it should match just fine because you would send that message "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:17",
    "text": "instead of sending the new session check out yeah yes okay that\u0027s good okay it\u0027s not something we can clarify on the list yeah I think so that seems to work them we make it optional when the client this or server sends this application data to signal it will not sin anymore handshake the in open current version openers cell it will still introduce an additional round trip but the server does not need to to send a new session ticket that seems good yep I agree I will send the I will send to the list summary I will try to implement write it down and and send it to the list to confirm this and get more discussion great so I think yeah once we get that settled I think we can either see if we need to do another working group last call but probably we can just make the revisions and as long as we don\u0027t have any contention we can move forward yep sounds good so here\u0027s a the other draft is yours - John so I\u0027m going to leave you in the queue so we have submitted the new version based on comments um and the changed packets to round trips so authenticators typically am the connection after 40 to 50 round clips not packaged as was stated in the earlier version we have added short text about a dirty less based EP methods in the introduction we earlier to the decision to change a title to a dirty less based methods and us now that\u0027s reflected in the introduction then there is a new section for - for about suppressing intermediate certificate this shortly describes a new TLS working group dropped by Martin Thomson that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "allows the client to inform the TLS server that it has all the intermediates that at the end that the server ever can omit sending and the intermediate certificates their bar there for reducing the size of the TLS handshake then we have added text to section 4.3 about updating authenticators this section existed but it was empty and this basically describes the reasons why authenticators might want to limit the amount of round-trips packets and also shortly why updating existing authenticators is hot and this text is quite a lot up based on the discussion comments explanation by yoni I think over a year ago on the mailing list and the formation of the EMU that\u0027s basically it I think it\u0027s in a good shape quite good shape now all the carrion all the comments received have been addressed as far as I know it\u0027s definitely my action item to call for the adoption so I\u0027ll do that immediately after this meeting and unless there\u0027s somebody objects here okay perfect okay all right okay eeep session ID not a lot new since the previous draft just restating but know you\u0027re popped up in the queue or we didn\u0027t see it before well I was commenting on something like a half an hour ago I\u0027m not relating to this okay well we\u0027ll put you back in in the after this if you okay okay so session ID this problem statement hasn\u0027t been defined for fast reification likely vendor eat methods have the same problem I tried pinging some people haven\u0027t got response so I suspect most of the vendor eat methods are dead at this point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:19",
    "text": "draft has minor changes from zero zero updates to eat sim noting that there may be a varying number of triplets other than that there hasn\u0027t really been much in the way of comments or negative feedback but I\u0027ll wait now I think we should adopt and do last call as soon as possible I had one other comment can we change the title because now it says session ID derivation for EEP and not like can we make it a little bit more specific because otherwise it feels like this is this draft defines how to drive session ID for all eat methods sure okay okay so we\u0027ll start the call for adoption after this meeting do we want it Bernard did you want to come to the mic all right don\u0027t all right well go to the next so we have for the also have another draft that\u0027s waiting for adoption and has gotten some support but there were IPR issues raised against EEP aka PFS so we had some discussion on the list a while back beginning of this year but no other alternatives have been proposed for this work item in general there is consensus that this document is needed and should move forward and in addition this IPR situation isn\u0027t any different than what\u0027s for essentially a KN aka prime and the document is targeted for an informational document so my proposal is that we accept this as a working group item unless there\u0027s people are wanting to object anybody here wishing to object Roman Tunisia was the responsible ID not objecting I just didn\u0027t watch the process when we did the call for adoption did we explicitly kind of call out the IPR yeah yeah yeah okay yari did you have some slides I believe "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:21",
    "text": "so I had slides on the other one not not the PFS right yeah this is RFC 54 48 this okay so just real quick so this has gone through working group last call and there\u0027s been some feedback from from that as well as feedback from various IETF and 3gpp participants and as well as importantly implementer feedback and so we published a new verb before the deadlines and and that new version has a few sort of relatively minor changes we had in the security considerations to XP mistakenly had said that must not communicate the the privacy friendly identifier and must communicate the you know permanent identity of the user and that of course it was exactly the other way around fortunately that was said the correct way elsewhere in the document not in the security considerations part so we changed that that\u0027s a big bug but hopefully people understood the other parts we also changed because we were sort of carefully going through the 3gpp specifications and the idea specifications and the some cases for like what do you need to do in you know when you receive different types of identifiers requests you know in a 5g network and the 3gpp language talked about you know you shall do this and that and and our previous text was should do change it to a must to match better the 3gpp language we also added an attribute table and we\u0027ve not had an attribute table so you know a table of attributes where they must appear what attributes can and may appear and different messages and that did not exist for 54:48 before it did exist for 4187 so we took that added the entries that belong to EI PA K Prime just to be sort of crystal clear you know what\u0027s what\u0027s needed and and what\u0027s not so there\u0027s a actually two attribute tables depending on the situation that you\u0027re in and yeah that\u0027s at least I personally felt that that\u0027s that\u0027s useful there were some attacks of course I mean the aka protocol receives quite a lot of interest from the academic community so different side to security problems or potential problems are I looked at over and a couple more attacks have been discussed now in the security consideration sections including what the impact or lack thereof might be so do take a look at that there\u0027s some more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:24",
    "text": "really minor things we just you know made absolutely sure that we say what to do with the length field calculations or we say things more explicitly now we clarified a little bit the language around the 80 KDF negotiation procedure as well as what to do in the case of the synchronization failure messages and and at 80 KDF attribute and then a hugely controversial change i\u0027m sure we moved from decimal to hexadecimal for the e type values just to make sure that different documents are in line with each other and then some reference updates and editorial clarification so that\u0027s that\u0027s basically it people have any particular points to raise here about these changes or other other things we can we can have some discussion I think I don\u0027t think these require any sort of re process in the in the working group so from my perspective the next step is that share should send a pop request to to ist and then that process should should start yeah that\u0027s it any comments on this and no working group anybody not think this is ready for is G okay thanks thank you so Danielle amigo I would think yeah the document seems to read it to me I just have one question which is who\u0027s reviewed the document at this point for for that particular question Elliot how many people have reviewed the document yeah two three four five and and also outside this room we had a fair bit of sort of that Ericsson team looking at this as well as various people from Fiji BP other companies okay so we\u0027ve had a there\u0027s been some review of the document thanks Eliot thank you alright so next on the agenda is uni has been busy working on a cheap implementation apparently and he filed some errata against the t p-- RFC so there was already exists there were some existing arad already there these two that i have on here what i want to try to do is go through some of these here and see if anybody has any opinions on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "them I have a feeling that some of them will need to take to the list to continue well continued discussion on the list because they\u0027re a little bit complicated but these first errata seem pretty straightforward and that the function signature for the TLS PRF was represented incorrectly and so these are just as pretty straightforward changes that were reported these were reported a while ago so my proposal is to accept these changes is that believe it\u0027s just a you know a kind of a mistaken in that function signature so I already posted this to the list if somebody could take a look and make sure that what that this looks correct and respond that would be great and then we believe that process is to tell Roman and then he can do whatever magic it takes yeah there I cover which yes sorry and so there was no objection to adopting the document so yeah the next errata was one filed by uni there\u0027s some conflict between the authority ID which is an outer TLD in teep was currently marked as being mandatory but there\u0027s another section of the document that said all outer TL B\u0027s must be optional this seems like a pretty straightforward change to make the authority ID optional so unless somebody has does anybody have an opinion on that in this room why was it is there any logic as to why it was a must in the first place yeah that\u0027s a good question I don\u0027t know for certain I think it was a fast has a similar construct and it may have been marked mandatory and you fast this is something we\u0027ll continue the discussion on the list I just want to see if there\u0027s any discussion to be had here but I assume there is text on what to do when some theories are not there so what should an implementation do when these optional "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:26",
    "text": "things are not there I haven\u0027t read the full spec myself so doing the implementation right now okay a little bit of time on this unless there\u0027s a rush to do it we can verify as we\u0027re going through our representation now that would be awesome so yeah with all of these this is something if you guys when you get to this point your implementation I be great to get the comments out on the list Thanks so similarly there were some confusion as to the intermediate result to TLB and you only proposed a you know clarification in the wording here and clarifying what the authentication method text you know how we define an authentication method versus a non authenticating method so each identity versus a method that performs an authentication I think this is pretty straightforward my pearls would be to accept but if there are people implementing at this time I\u0027d like to you know we can certainly hold off until the implementations implementers come back I mean if we\u0027re gonna be waiting Roman didn\u0027t forgive me waiting for the last one based on implementation I see no reason why we couldn\u0027t just batch a couple of them waiting but we should set a deed that we would go forward even if we don\u0027t hear from the implementers okay yeah we\u0027ll work with that off the list and see what the what the schedules are but because it is pretty important to move or because I know uni is waiting on his implementation so if we can kind of try to get these questions resolved that would be helpful the next one is the compound Mack is specified as 20 bytes which is kind of fixed to this length of sha-1 sha-1 is no longer used by most TLS cipher suites so we need to decide what to do here it could either be I think you Oni said his simple fix was just to truncate the the max to 20 bytes it seems like maybe would be better to have a variable length Mac that would be my preference this is something we can probably discuss Elliot if we can work with your implementers to to kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:26",
    "text": "work through this issue as to what seems to be the best that would be great the same thing up Roman no Roman to you again again with kind of all these my question is do we want to put a timer on trying to get a response I would say you know September September 1 September 15 you want to just resolve by the time out that there\u0027s thinking before Singapore yeah yeah wait we definitely want to have these resolved by single port and then there were some questions about the inter me the kind of session key derivation this is kind of very vague in the draft because there are implementations that may support an msk and an extended msk so this and the instructions on how to construct the secret aren\u0027t complete so there\u0027s a lot of questions as to how it how it should be done I think this can be just I think the this needs to be it can be worked through but it needs to be clarified in the draft how it works and then finally what to do if there is no key generating method executed the the draft does not specify what the compound Mack key is in that case what CM k0 and so presumably there\u0027s a couple options here but we just need to decide which one it is and then do that so the the changes here or could you know are significant in that they do in fact interoperability and implementations and so we\u0027d like to get these resolved and then we can certainly file their errata then the question would be is if we want to open up fit the the RFC 7170 to see if if we want to make these make a revision to fix these but I think we can wait on that so you know one of the things that I think that ties to is our presentation a little bit in terms of ETA risky one of the reasons that it does is that essentially keepers you sort of set out to do what he was planning to do anyway "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:28",
    "text": "if we\u0027re going to open up that document we just cram our stuff into that then but otherwise we just do it as each extensions and I\u0027m I\u0027m sort of easy as to how we go about that right if whatever whatever they were working for plots I think the real question is whether people want to do the implementation along with us decreasing stuff you know at the base level oh and and there\u0027s more to it maybe that question you should defer until of my presentation okay this is a lunch that will follow up to that I know my next document talks about fixing t4 TLS 1.3 but if it doesn\u0027t sort of mostly work for TLS 1.2 right now I\u0027d be more than happy to remove that text from the document because almost I have no idea what it should say and there has been very little feedback so I\u0027m happy just to remove that push it off to a tee bids or T updates or something okay all right so I think that anybody have any other discussion items for teep teep errata all right then we\u0027ll move on to oh yeah we can do your so hopefully this should be pretty simple so again key derivation has changed in TLS 1.3 most of this is pretty easy fast and cheap have a much more complex key derivation so if we can punt on that specifically for teep that makes this document pretty trivial eat fast i fewer opinions on that\u0027s mostly historical cisco thing i guess the question for cisco maybe nancy or some elliot or someone else is whether you have opinions on this and what should be done or perhaps there could be just a statement saying yeah I don\u0027t use eat fast with TLS 1.3 Elliot here I don\u0027t have an opinion personally but I\u0027ll think about thanks on the so short solution is they were some small changes to eat TLS key derivations and now unlike the previous eat methods in TLS 1.2 all the key derivation is the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:29",
    "text": "for all the TLS based eat methods with the exception of the other ones so that just makes things much much simpler for implementers not really a lot of security considerations lots of issues with EEP in TLS but some minor ones that need discussing here and as the question is tiba right I\u0027m I think I\u0027m happy to pull that out and push it off on to a teep document because it looks like so everyone\u0027s implementing it and discovering all kinds of issues with it and so we can simplify this document so if we pull the TT p-- and maybe have a simple comment for fast then this document becomes very very trivial and we should be able to publish it pretty quickly questions No all right all right so now we\u0027ll move on to our reach our during discussion sure so over the last couple of five years we have had several new drafts which don\u0027t necessarily are unnecessarily covered by by the existing charter so the draft that Alan presented just now it\u0027s somewhat covered but but it would be nice to clarify the charter text further we as you saw we discussed several deep deep aratus and perhaps it would make sense to open that document and fix those things especially if people are implementing it so perhaps including that on the Charter would make sense also we have had like a couple of drop drawers which are completely out of the current charters one has been this OB authentication for EEP which is draft outer loop and then also a couple of drafts that try to try to do things where you start with certain credentials and and then you end with certain other types of credentials so let\u0027s say you start with certificates that are put by one guy and then after you run EEP authentication you end up with with certificates that belong to to a different domain for example and there have been requests to to update the Charter and I guess we are using this time to discuss if there is enough interest if there are enough people willing to review the text what should the Charter exactly cover and and so on so this charter text is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:34",
    "text": "revision of the existing Charter so it it still includes all the things that we have currently on the Charter including if TLS with TLS 1.3 EPK aka PFS I polished the text a little bit and fix some typos but otherwise all the three paragraphs on on this slide cover what we already have on the Charter and not necessarily any any of the new items do you have any issues if anyone has issues with this text come forward now can we ask how many people have read it yari has read it because he wrote the initial Charter but perhaps it is is it related to our Charter discussions or do you want it on the Charter is it something it\u0027s a question of what do we do so there are people doing things with eat that violate the existing RFC\u0027s are pushing the mat all over the place and what do we do when you know things bypass the IETF and don\u0027t care with you and is any of these items are violating the no no this is this is something in addition to the Charter right but I sure think that we may want to have then we can have a discussion on that so I don\u0027t know what elf about the specifics of that issue but is the concrete action that you\u0027re proposing for us is a publication of something plication guidance it\u0027s more just asking what do we do a little bit right I mean allegedly if if the IETF is in change control for eat and people are implementing things and vaguely sort of standardizing them that finally the various RF seeds and do some inventive things with that review the question is what can we do what should we do there that\u0027s there I was gonna say that doesn\u0027t sound like a chartering of a new item Bernard\u0027s here so let\u0027s well I mean there\u0027s no e police to call have those individuals arrested presumably you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:35",
    "text": "something and then people could you know it it wouldn\u0027t making this guidance for example or people might decide not to buy it are you referring to security think Helen in particularly know there\u0027s so as background there there was some work in 3gpp on encrypted MCS in sin and a K and a ka prime that work is now continuing partly outside 3gpp from what I understand and and doing things that are not really clear it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not clear overall even to me why this kind of thing is happening and then the question I guess is do we have a charter item to work with people to get review before these things get standardized outside the IETF or well so we have the method number right IANA locates them and there is expert review for for doing that and there is no requirement that all the methods are published as RFC Schloss I counted there are 52 EEP methods perhaps that some guy we could provide some things to the experts that when they are doing the method allocation no that\u0027s not that\u0027s not right I don\u0027t think I just it\u0027s the banker stuff that doesn\u0027t have to be reviewed to get us met that allocation you do need to review this this is not vendor stuff this is changes to existing methods okay okay the labs so the I guess the question is are these people even going if be actually each other or do something are these people going to bring any of this for to the EMU working you clearly if they don\u0027t what are you gonna do yeah so do you would think people changing eat methods under change control of the ietf would talk to the ITF but a parent that doesn\u0027t always happen and I guess the question is do we want to see if we can reach out and review these things or have ietf state than this but instead of what security practices or this is good and this is bad I don\u0027t know it\u0027s all you can reach out if you know about them so I guess this is where like liaisons with 3gpp and so on can can help help us but there\u0027s no way we can force people you know if you don\u0027t even know about it we can\u0027t help them Romania to reiterate you go talk to people we don\u0027t need to change the Charter if we\u0027re going to formally do something in terms of producing a draft we certainly would need to and we\u0027ve already said liaison statement so we have license to the right organizations we can absolutely find those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:37",
    "text": "so alright this was what we dis text covers what we already have on the Charter and then the next slide we have some text on on things that that have been brought to the ITF and are currently not on the Charter this is some initial text and now it\u0027s open for you to come in and bash this text together so if you have comments what do you think does this make sense does it cover the things or the ideas that you had in mind if the working group wants to kind of tackle some of those issues I will support them editorially I think we should structure those work items similarly to the way we structure the other work items unless we\u0027re rewriting the text of them because all the rest of the murray provided guidance or updates to update foo and this one is more as more background than some of those explicit well the other items for kind of fixing existing things whereas these would be either new method or extensions to to method whereas all the previous were like how to do if TLS bill TLS 1.3 but if TLS already existed the same for eBay ka prime sure perhaps this could also be restructured so does anybody have any concerns or does this cover Elliott things that you guys are looking at forgive me for not being able to really read through the the text on the screen it\u0027s really hard from back there but in my earlier discussions with Mookie where I thought I had it wrong but he corrected me to say no I have it wrong I do have it wrong here\u0027s where you\u0027re covered I\u0027m trusting I\u0027m essentially trusting you guys that you\u0027ve gotten it Ronnie that what I\u0027m expecting is that we\u0027ll be able to cover it like either a teef update or you keep brewski or it\u0027s certainly we want to also include in that something like a new intern and I\u0027m not saying by the way that this force is the working group to take on any of that work just that if if there if we get into a an adoption call that it that it\u0027s right for consider when it\u0027s right for consideration we don\u0027t get it to charter issues for each of these items "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:40",
    "text": "you\u0027d be nice to kind of see who kind of working on them who would be implementing okay so for the out-of-band we can call these kind of out-of-band channel I guess introduction or registration methods are there people who are interested in working on this work item one two three four I\u0027m sure Thomas he\u0027s okay so we definitely have interest in and are those how many of those people are willing to actually contribute text okay great clarification I suspect Daniel amigo when you say I think test you mean reviewing well when I say adding takes me an authoring okay not necessarily doesn\u0027t necessary have to be a primary but we definitely need people to author the documents and then instead of just reviewing and in making comments it\u0027s very useful to have people who will actually contribute the text that will fix the document dieudonné that a remedy new implementation who\u0027s willing to write the code forgive my thickness just a clarification here mohit again which which sentences do you believe cover this sort of book not only I can see where you eat noob is covered in the QR code discussion where do you think that you keep the entire second paragraph so so the second last line the the reason it says minimal mechanisms is try to use existing things where it would be hopefully deep or some some method that has a TLS outer tunnel but because there is also this other draft which it cred so I didn\u0027t want to tie it down to EEP deep but the fact that it says minimal mechanisms with which limited use credentials can then be used for creating general use long term credentials first in the second paragraph the first paragraph is quite happy to receive changes suggestions the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:50",
    "text": "reason is there is true drafts so there is he creds and I\u0027m not authoring any of those two drafts I\u0027m just saying there were two drafts and I try to capture essentially what they\u0027re trying to do with the same text but if you want to put deep here specifically that\u0027s something we can discuss on the list as well yeah and I think this comes makes us back to both the previous conversation and then the forthcoming conversation is that it\u0027s clear that there is some teamwork that\u0027s needed in fact the one of the conversations I just had lunch was from people in the field area network space in which they\u0027re not even sure they want an hour TLS connection we need to have that dialogue I think here in the name towards common architecture now and so yeah in that case this text is in fact bare because I don\u0027t say deep so you\u0027re not necessarily restricted by having outer TLS tunnel and rather you have minimal mechanism so it\u0027s a growth broader swath probably there\u0027s there\u0027s little recent if you guys just when I\u0027m singing the charters giving that not part of the text and that goes to Romans point right which is you might want to put the you might want to separate out that text in perfect terms the third third line stick that into V it stick that into your deliverables text or something like that okay okay pepsin I think you already covered the question I was gonna ask but I think the second second second paragraph is generally enough and I assume that it kind of already covered the it creds use case also right so I\u0027m fine with it then we can probably do some word spinning but I think okay I think we should still have some discussion of this charter text on the on the list since not every breeze here and I think it could probably use some polishing yes but I Roman but yes again I think we still confirm on the list yeah absolutely and just to confirm the second part for the mineral mechanisms which use a potent ocation credentials that can be used for creating general use long term credentials are there people who are in interested in in working on this item these three four six okay okay how many interested in contributing text implementers okay great "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:51",
    "text": "alright let\u0027s see next we have an update on EEP noob so tall us yes just can you hear me yes okay so it\u0027s an update on hip nope next slide please so just this slide is a kind of segue to the retiring discussion so just a reminder that out-of-band means a second independent communication channel which is used for authenticating something on the primary channel and this has become a kind of common way of boosting security in applications and devices but if even though it is the scenario authentication framework with the all kinds of authentication methods doesn\u0027t currently support an open authentication and that\u0027s why we set out to to specify the ignore protocol for this purpose next slide here is our timeline we have been working actually over three years on this and kind of polish the specification and the in written implementation for linux and the modeling and verification of the protocol and as a new thing there is no peer implementation for Contiki in progress and the draft is in version 6 next slide please so I have two slides just to remind us what is in old an overview so it isn\u0027t leap a method for bootstrapping devices out of the box without professional administration that\u0027s kind of the use case that we trying to solve and the authentication is based on user assisted out-of-band authentication that success the user using a mobile phone to spend a dynamic QR code or NFC tag and in addition to doing just one time out indication the method registers the device these two Triple A it creates a persistent association between the Triple A server and the device and this association can then be used later for fast reorient occasion of the previously "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "registered devices next slide here is an art picture picture of the use case when when this method is used for network attachment so we have a new device that is not reality stirred on the network and then we have the network infrastructure with an access points and the Triple A architecture and most of the communication in this method happens over the EAP Channel in band between the new device and the Triple A server but then there is one message that goes over the user assisted out-of-band channel such as the user scanning the QR code but could be something else and that authenticates the inventor of key exchange and configuration the three killer that kind of critical thing is that normally in device bootstrapping you have the problem that you would like to register a device in the server but you need network connectivity for that but then you don\u0027t have network connectivity because the device is not yet registered and we\u0027ve solved that by using the EAP panel for communicating between the new device and the server before the device is registered and clearly this is has been a successful idea it\u0027s been now copied by at least two other tracks next slide what is new in this version well that the draft has been fairly stable so we have continuously just police the text and the details of the specification based on feedback from implementation and lessons from the formal verification however this time we did make one slightly bigger chains so in earlier versions of the draft we have overloaded the network access identifier now so that it conveyed the peer ID and the state and this doesn\u0027t really comply with the with the Evo RFC\u0027s guidance where it says that the identity response should be used primarily for routing and for selecting the eat method and for that reason we now cleaned up the draft and got rid of this overload of the NIE and the cost here is an extra round trip at the beginning of the eve conversation but it does help the implementations as well because implementations are not really don\u0027t have support for this changing the knife frequently so that\u0027s the only bigger change for a while then there is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:53",
    "text": "some of these smaller cleanups we added earlier a key identifier we to help the peer implementation but after some thinking we may want to in the future randomize the identifiers in the protocol for privacy reasons and the key identifier would then leak the peer identity so it\u0027s better get rid of that the cost here is that the peer may sometimes in rare cases have to try two different keys because it doesn\u0027t know whether it\u0027s the new or old key that that was used for some message and then we made some editorial changes so all the exchanges in the protocol all the it conversation have this common apart kind of handshake and we move that to a separate text section of course anyone who implements the protocol would do this necessarily in this order so you do first the common part and then branch out to the different exchanges and now the text follows more closely there how we would expect people to implement it and this previously caused some confusion with the implementers finally another thing is related to roaming support so the method allows the server to assign realm\u0027 to the peer with the peer will later use in future conversations forum so that the requests can be routed over the Triple A architecture to the correct server and this is especially useful in cases like Eddie Rome where roaming and there was a question about when should the peer start using the the realm and that it received and the answer to that is now written in that that text it is that using as early as possible immediately start using the servers and reown that is because it makes the growing more seamless in some specific scenarios okay those were the updates from this version and there is the next slide already so the we have analyzed this so-called miss finding threats against the pairing protocols and okay the hood so in the previous meeting in this articles were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:53",
    "text": "enacted in based on on these misspending attacks and we had now published a full report Theseus in CAS consists of an academic a conference report is available online it explains the rest and some mitigate this information will also excuse me you must quick quick question the slide says March 2009 you\u0027re talking about the presentation at the last Saturday I don\u0027t know where that came from it\u0027s 19 so I think they have less the video but and let\u0027s continue to the next one next slide please we\u0027re on the to-do list slide how ok I ate it was the video completely ok so so that here is my to-do list and we don\u0027t plan any major changes I don\u0027t have any plans to make major changes to the specification anymore unless there is some someone else comes up with a reason but there will be small polishing so one thing is that the message examples need to be updated with the changes made to the version 6 and then I am still a bit worried about the time outs and the usability aspect related to time out so we may need to do some modeling user testing about that and we have solved the problem of lost last met cities can recover from that and what we formally verified that it works but that should be written up and reported in some way and not in the draft but somewhere else and finally we maybe should write into the draft these hooks for future expansions which we have been thinking about along the way so things that I already mentioned device registration while roaming identify randomization configuring application parameters we are currently only creating a shared key for the application layer but not really don\u0027t give any advice how to configure other parameters and then maybe interplay with the manufacturer certificates and other credentials which themselves are not always sufficient for authentication but could help mitigate threats like miss finding okay next slide that should be the final summary slide and so to summarize EAP noob is an EAP method for user assisted of the Panda authentication and the draft is now I think very complete and should be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:56",
    "text": "quite stable we have implementations for Linux and the implementation of the pier on contiki ongoing work and then formal models of the protocol and of the security aspects the authentication and this seems to be some interest in this protocol that people asking questions and this could be a work item related to the paragraph for each other in that way so just stop okay thank you that\u0027s all I had any questions for Thomas okay thank you next we have Elliot up with cheap brewski good afternoon again this is a very quick update we\u0027ve done a little bit a little bit of work on ep brewski and no text but mostly been spending time coding doesn\u0027t seem to be advancing thank you all right sir review RFC 7170 specifies teep there\u0027s TLS based authentication as well as some enrollment support some really nice TVs in there which essentially I would say mimic est in some way shape or form RFC 83 66 specifies a voucher format in which do you trust an introduction at least the results of that are the draft IETF anima bootstrapping key infra says here\u0027s how you do the request to get the 83 66 voucher and this draft incorporates all three into a flow next slide okay so I\u0027m not going to go through how everything works because I\u0027ve done that several times in this room before and I want to respect your time here\u0027s what we did the first thing is the last time you saw the draft in Prague there were no security considerations it\u0027s not that there aren\u0027t security considerations it\u0027s just that we haven\u0027t gotten to him yet and I pleaded prodded poked and otherwise convinced Dan Harkins to help us out on this and he did and filled in what I think is pretty good claim section to begin with the Security\u0027s consideration section so I\u0027d ask you to please review that diagrams have been updated the principle reason the diagrams have been updated is that we had to combine the join registrar and each server in order to satisfy the the anima brewski and 83 66 requirements "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:56",
    "text": "such that signatures all match along the path from and on our well bound from the all the way from the pier all the way out to the masa the diagrams are not yet to my liking we have a few ASCII humps in them which I think I can remove just by splitting a couple of diagrams into two and removing elements in various places which are which would otherwise be redundant but that\u0027s very cosmetic what\u0027s really needed now is just to do implementation development testing we started that just by testing out teeth to make sure it works so we are obviously finding some of the same ambiguities that you Andy found and so we\u0027re going through all those right now our next step is to to go further we\u0027re we\u0027re developing on both sides of this in terms of both a server implementation and we\u0027re developing in the WPA stuff looking codebase as well and we\u0027re doing a little bit of testing and hosts a DBA PD to make sure that that this will all work smoothly so what we\u0027re hoping then a next slide if I even have a next slide yeah okay good yeah coding happening now a couple things that we\u0027re still thinking about along these lines is whether there are some 802 11 interactions here\u0027s the basic problem so in order to get to the point where you\u0027re doing the the t p-- transaction what happens if you\u0027re in the middle of Tokyo and you have 2,000 VSS IDs that are blasting at you saying join me join me join me and so you have it the device has a choice can it hunt through all of those to go find something that I can join it might take a very long time in the meantime its battery is done and so that might mean that we might need to do a little bit of 802 11 integration in some cases might not be 802 11 integration might be integration with with with Wi-Fi Alliance componentry or something like that with it\u0027s all based on 802 11 we haven\u0027t quite worked any of that out but we\u0027re thinking about it and that\u0027s really an optimization optimization on the flow that you see in the draft the draft basically makes various different portions of the exchange conditional based on whether or not you\u0027re able to use the authentication material that you have so I\u0027m going to I will do a quick redraw of the diagrams to avoid the humps again its aesthetic and then what I\u0027m hoping for is adoption in time for Singapore if we as we begin to see some code and produce some results so that\u0027s the update questions comments thoughts criticisms Tomatoes no tomatoes bananas alright I was waiting for yes we have no good could this voucher that he brewski "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:06",
    "text": "used be considered an out-of-band mechanism partly it is it partly could be let me give you an example of how it might be so this ties into the animal architecture and so there are two possibilities in that architecture one possibility is you go all the way out to the manufacturer and say hey is this yours and if so can I have a voucher please and that I wouldn\u0027t call that out-of-band I\u0027d call that in-band even though we\u0027re not specifying the the mass of communication the second part is instead of that I\u0027ve been given a voucher through whatever means I\u0027ve been given it right and I\u0027ve shoved it into my join registrar right at which point you\u0027ve received this thing out of and you\u0027ve shoved it into your join registrar maybe it\u0027s you know as simple as an Excel import or hopefully something a little bit more structured and then from that point you could you could just as easily authenticate so you don\u0027t have to do the cloud transaction immediately thereafter and I\u0027ll give you know another example of that flow which is it could be that the sales integration that might happen as part of this and you can see this with say the cloud-based IOT providers this is where they\u0027re going they may want to hand me a voucher at the time that I thought that the sale occurs and I can just cram it into my triple-a infrastructure right then and there so there\u0027s no cloud transaction needed but that should not affect the bits on the wire that we\u0027re specifying I hope that\u0027s what we have to test out over the next of the over the coming months and so the other questions comments thoughts bye-bye thank you and last but not least oh it okay so I\u0027ve given this deter Tommy giving this presentation or giving a variation at this of Acme and a variation of desert anima and what this covers is how we can use an acme CA in the crowd or just not be in the cloud on acne CA as a back-end for issuing certificates when you do an enrollment over teep so the high-level summary is you know teep specifies how appear can perform a certain role mminton ban by exchanging pic you see is ten and seven messages with the chief server teak doesn\u0027t define how the deep server interacts with the CA Acme defines how a client can interact with a CA and get certificates issued a dramatically what this draft covers it recovers multiple things but the thing that\u0027s most relevant here is it shows how to stitch these things together how a teep a client can interact with a teep server exchange because he has ten seven messages with the teep server and the tips are going to turn around and talk to an acme CA to get those certs issued and there\u0027s probably no changes required "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:09",
    "text": "to Acme your T but possibly T pisander specified and want to talk about that little bit so there\u0027s multiple different use cases covered in the draft and the one that\u0027s important is three here t p-- and Hana me presents this that Acme we agreed that the activations of subdomain search would be split out into a separate chart draft and what that really means is and a client can interact with on acnes and prove ownership of a domain and then the Acme server can then issue multiple certs against sub means without declined to having to explicitly prove ownership of all subdomains so what that means for for client integrations is that and the client which we teach server in this use case and would prove ownership of a domain once and then that client would be able to get certs from acne from multiple different clients hurts against some of the means of that primary domain these cases we\u0027ve talked about EST and brewski in anima we had a side meeting this morning and there\u0027s strong interest in pursuing and progressing the EST and brewski work so that a client will be able to talk EST or a clang to be able to talk brewski to a server and then that server can turn around and talk mapping to a CA to get searched that work would be progressed and but a logical extension and this as well is we talk client talks cheap to a server and that tip server turns around and talks Acme to a CA call flows here this is just boilerplate stuff this this is lifted from my draft its standard Acme authorizations of it straight from the Acme draft as well and it simply illustrates how a server interacts with acne and DNS to prove ownership of domain there\u0027s nothing new here it\u0027s pod repaired acne and what I\u0027m showing here is and it\u0027s a bit of an eye strain but it\u0027s taken from this current draft it\u0027s just standard boilerplate TLS 1.2 tunnel establishment using tip nothing new here at all and this is the interesting thing here is once the teep tunnel is established and the client sends a PK C is 10 T of the request in that tip tunnel to the tip server we can see the tip server is turning around and interacting to acne CA and to get that certificate issued but there\u0027s a couple of things that are not fully specified here and we haven\u0027t really thought through properly one is the mechanism by which the pier will definitively know what domain or what fqdn what identifier to put in the subject or the sand about me acting happy and and the other thing that est covers but this doesn\u0027t is potentially when that pkc on tip doesn\u0027t over desire on pickasee is ten requests a sense with deep server if the team server wants to fulfill that request but is not able to fulfill that request yet how does the tips ever signal to the client that yes I am "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:12",
    "text": "willing to give you a pkcs7 response but not yet so tip doesn\u0027t cover how to do that and discussion dot that\u0027s it really short presentation and it\u0027s just a broader interest it is of interest to the est and brewski communities of interest here is two rakat the next existing tip an existing tip do we need something to back off or retry mechanism in response to a PK c as ten TLV and are there any channel binding issues not covered by section 3 a 2 of t I\u0027m not sure I don\u0027t think there are but I need to review that as well there are some related drafts as well there\u0027s a couple of realtor offs hear that reef at house and Kathleen has for issuing acne being used to issue device certs but they don\u0027t explicitly touch on deep integration that is it so it\u0027s really interesting because a lot of what swollen are probably a lot of small enterprises don\u0027t even want to run any form of CA and the ability to to maybe link up to a public C or CA something like this so may be very very useful in number of cases the reason I got the microphone is I think what you\u0027re asking about the teeth work is that we need to have the equivalent of a 202 under a response code in the draft that we put together and I think the answer is yes we do I think one of the things that we need from the security our area as we go through a lot of the review around this is what are our resource concern what is resource where is resource consumption occurring and in the process of doing that and and the fun of the fundamental layer is that the if the CA is unavailable at a time at any given time somebody\u0027s holding state essentially saying as we were saying in another room no super you come back in five minutes but how to state expire in these circumstances we should be studying now a little bit thanks hone up Dan Harkins again perhaps this isn\u0027t the related grass they didn\u0027t read yet but how do you envision these devices get or these certificates get named so if you know the devices you know widget my serial number is one two three four I guess that would be in the CSR but then that\u0027s exactly the open issue that I mentioned going through one open issue is how to ensure that the device the station knows exactly what fqdn are identified to put in subject your sand key cap keep acme happy and in east EST and brewski the way that could happen is the device sends a CSR out treats requests to the server and the server responds and tells it what to put in the subject how it works here it\u0027s an open I do not know okay Joe solloway so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:15",
    "text": "it\u0027s kind of interesting to have that the the kind of I can\u0027t give you a certificate now come back later I mean the net result there is probably you\u0027re gonna not get any network I mean I think it actually could work that you you you basically reject you know you do it eat fail and and give the person a token to call back later within this state could all be maintained probably in the in the back end you could you could you could even work thought with T this one the three session resumption right so you give it a token to retry establish an UTI session later or yeah you would still probably need that this acne support call me back later yeah yeah yeah so there\u0027s probably see I\u0027m token that the client would have to maintain but you did acne would be maintaining the state on whether their sir was no on how to get the cert back so I think it would be possible you\u0027re just you\u0027re not going to have any network connectivity until that point which I you know may or may not be a problem yeah hmm boy so do do questions or remarks anything that happens beyond the deep server is not really concern of this group whether you Zack may or full bar right whatever happens between the e pier and the observer is what eeep is doing and I mean sure you could use Acme I have no tact Acme expert but I don\u0027t know whether Acme does client certificates nor does it even distinguish between client certificates and server certificates because my understanding was activist mostly for like domain validation and and server certificates and not for issuing device certificates maybe there is some some super sir so what we\u0027ve used cases for the thing that\u0027s getting the certificate is both a client and server so we have like sure but part is not the group to do that right maybe Acme is the group to do that so that there may be like there\u0027s a couple of things here right first there may be work required in the peak is he is ten pkc seven back off retry and there may also be work the question that I asked in the question that I open question anyways as well is the mechanism by which the station or the peer knows exactly but but it it it it involves changes to the state machine that t p-- goes through to in order to enable that okay the teep the t client and server okay the supplicant and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:16",
    "text": "authenticator okay have to add states to deal with this additional question acne already deals with the problem it\u0027s already stated do something point is that\u0027s why we\u0027re here discussing it is because it involves changes potential changes to state machine that octi okay and Acme doesn\u0027t know anything about that you do right so yeah maybe there is something we can we can look into that the second kind of note I wanted to make it should not be the device or the peer that says issue made this certificate it should be the deep server which is authenticating the peer saying that so so so the server is the one that sees this is this is the device that\u0027s trying to connect to me this is the knife that it sent to me and whether I issue it a certificate for deny that it sent me or for some something completely different it should be the server that enforces this and not like client saying hey can you give me a certificate for that guy in the next room okay so you\u0027re saying that this or would still enforce it when it sees the CSR but okay the server can enforce a policy but if you know the client has to generate the request okay thanks any other questions on this topic all right now I think we run through our regular agenda I don\u0027t know if Bernard if you ever got to cover the topic you wanted to cover at the beginning when we missed you or if anybody had another topic up here comes Bernard yeah basically I\u0027ve been working offline to get Alan the contacts he wanted and I think I may have that so that that was my only my only comment relating gallons questions okay great thank you very much Roman I\u0027m just bringing up a pet topic that I\u0027m sharing in all the working groups I love the fact that we\u0027re talking about kind of drafts and I love the fact that we\u0027re saying let\u0027s wait for the code to tap to help us I think that tremendously improves kind of the quality one thing I would ask that kind of this working group is can we put a list of those implementations relative to those drafts somewhere where it\u0027s easily accessible perhaps not to those that regularly come to these meetings so there\u0027s a better sense of what the running code is behind those drafts so we\u0027re groups like TLS dots and others "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:17",
    "text": "have done things like that do it in github do it in the tract wiki I would recommend not just the list I would recommend you know running code versus this draft and potentially even which version of that draft and that\u0027ll help if we decided to interrupt testing and it certainly helps me when I advance drafts to say it\u0027s not just us having written some words it\u0027s we have some code backing us to give us confidence to progress the droughts great thanks but I working all the different business other business Dan what is it aside from cookies I send a note the list I have a new draft out that fixes the attacks against ep WD that were highlighted in the dragon blood paper so please have a look comment and thank you all right when or did you have another no I think he was just he didn\u0027t hit leave the queue alright see you next time yeah I just had a question about whether we would think about Interop test for some of the TOS 1.3 stuff at some point it interrupts us yeah like at a hackathon I know I think well that\u0027s something we\u0027ll have to take up and see if we can find it but I think that would be a good idea okay thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:30",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] you "
  }
]