[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:23",
    "text": "[Music] so good morning everyone welcome to the EM music session here at 101 I am beau Berman and this is my co-chair Fleming and resin on the screen you have the ietf note well should you not have seen it before or not ready we strongly suggest you do so did anyone not sign the blue sheets we have one note taker Ronny Evan do we have anyone able to join the general jonathan is coming in the room Jonathan would you mind getting in the jabber room for us thank you when you speak please use the microphone and state your name and for the percentage we have a nice pink square up here ITF is dependent on good document review review and we ask you to please review documents in your own working group and also at least one other document from another working group this is today\u0027s agenda it\u0027s reasonably short we have two documents being discussed today it\u0027s the session description protocol there 4566 miss a few open issues and the short presentation on status for the SDP offer answer procedures for ice anyone wishing to bash that at Ajanta so for the working group status we have no published RFC\u0027s since last meeting but we have quite a few in the RFC editor queue I believe many of them are have interdependencies so expect many to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:26",
    "text": "be applied republished as once at once we have one draft in ITF last call until lost of March and we have two drafts the bundled negotiation and the trickle I sip in is G review currently the SDP simulcast is publication requested we have no drafts waiting for write-up but we have two drafts in working group consensus that\u0027s the RTC web data channel STP negotiation where we have a few comments and that\u0027s the same for the 4566 base a few comments that\u0027s still to be addressed the ICP document is and working group last call and there we have some Shepherd and review comments just as the previous two documents only Evan I didn\u0027t see any any message on the data channel is the PNG did I miss something because I\u0027m don\u0027t understand the status of that the data channel is deepening yeah we had I believe the author posted a new version we had a few comments based on the Shepards review and other than that I was not aware anything was it Yamazaki one that was just posted there was us rpm MSRP one was just posted yeah okay I\u0027ll check it I\u0027m not I thought I didn\u0027t have any work on that that\u0027s why I\u0027m confused to see that you mentioned that there\u0027s something I have to do if I remember your your comment correctly you answered that those comments would be addressed but we\u0027ll fix that we have no new work items we have three drafts that are not on the agenda or already covered we have a new author for the MSRP usage for the data channel that was recently updated we have the previous milestone for the opportunistic negotiation draft which was extensively discussed among the 80s and the decision was there that they\u0027re related draft insipid brandy would be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:26",
    "text": "continued and this one will no longer be needed so we have also dropped the milestone for that one and the last draft is the P UK s that needs review yeah and actually I know a Martin who was one of the authors of this draft he was actively soliciting feedback so could we get some volunteers to review the draft don\u0027t all speak at once no no volunteers okay so Martin who\u0027s one of the co-authors of this draft had asked unknown key share he has asked for feedback on the draft he\u0027s not aware of any open issues but he would like more review so he was asking if we could find somebody to help review with the draft so that is the request here is anybody volunteering to review this draft okay Thank You Jonathan anybody else take your mark all right thank you guys and finally we had one as the P Directorate and the science desolated expert your review in the negotiating human language in the sim working group a follow-up on this slide that we had presented before this is the table with the RTC web dependencies that we have hearing and music it\u0027s starting to look pretty good we have number of drafts that are in RFC editors q already as you saw previously we have the bundle in 9sd review we have simulcast publication requested the rid is in ITF last call and there is the trickle I season is G review and the only one that is not submitted for publication has working group last call and it\u0027s with a few comments ice if STP and that is also here on the agenda today anybody have any comments on anything if not Ally Europe next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:28",
    "text": "okay we have been working on this SDP revision for some time just a few minor issues are remaining hopefully this went through the Cherry weave and we got some comments from Flemming I already addressed most of them by the help of some people in the list and then some some of my quarters but there are a couple of still remaining ones and then we would like to go over them today hopefully close them and then you know I can push another division and then maybe we can go for publication quest so number three I\u0027m using the issue numbers that I posted in the list just to be in sync so the comment says we have a say text in section five point nine about the time zone stuff you know the text wasn\u0027t really clear which time zone it was referring to it turns out that it is the UTC but I mean there is another field called the Z equals field which is the time zone adjustment so if it is if it\u0027s always UTC there may be do we need an adjustment field in the first place that was a comment and maybe someone who has been familiar with STP for a much longer time than I am might be able to answer this question the time zone adjustments there for daylight savings time they\u0027re there for announced sap sessions way where the there\u0027s a specified time for the session and it spends daylight savings time is to show you when the daylight savings time adjustments happen John Donne together time zone adjustments are specifically for repeating sessions so this is these these are the initial session in UTC repeating sessions which repeat like once a day you have to do the daylight savings time it\u0027s a primitive and semi broken version of what the vcalendar did in much greater detail later because it\u0027s actually a harder problem on this but yeah that the idea is that this is especially cuz this is for repeating conferences in this bag right yes the way it was implemented was this seminar repeats once a week at one o\u0027clock and well daylight savings her tiny changes in the middle there for calendar a different time okay looks like it\u0027s gonna stay there okay next white that was easy okay issue number four we have the P time IMAX P time values we decided in one of the earlier meetings to make "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:29",
    "text": "these non integers floating numbers and their fractional values so that was a great in a meeting some time ago but now I don\u0027t see Magnus in the room but he made a recommendation on the list saying that we should leave the PT I\u0027m a max beta alias in that equals if I if I if the MP lines and duplicate to use on media stream level and you know nobody really got back to Magnus on that recommendation on the list and I wanted to bring this up here in case anybody who\u0027s a comment on this have a comment from hope I\u0027m fine with deprecating it but we still need to put something in this index because if we\u0027re gonna deprecated it so I think we still have to answer the question one way or another Fleming and rayna\u0027s individual I\u0027m not sure exactly understand what it is that Magnus recommends but if you\u0027re talking about deprecating these I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s a good idea because there are other people that are using them today I know that much I think Mac knows his motivation was you know there could be multiple you know P time or max P time values for for the for the media that is using the same specific payload type number and then you know it would really indicate anything significant so there could be multiple media types under that different P time values under that payload type number yeah I mean I think the limitations of Keaton and max Pete hammer well understood but that doesn\u0027t mean that it\u0027s safe to deprecated them because like I said there are people that are using them for you know all the perhaps wrong reasons but that\u0027s all that there was Colin Perkins you mean different P type numbers for an EM line even for a payload type number yeah I think I agree why me I don\u0027t think it makes sense to deprecated this it works perfectly well for a large number of use cases through and it has limitations and we should probably document the limitations but and possibly recommend the new deployments would do something else but yeah it solves the problem for many cases and I think I think we have to keep it okay thank you pit and we just came out the shortcomings all right you know we still haven\u0027t answered yeah we\u0027re still I mean the original question was you know somebody raised the question of whether this ought to allow fractional values or not hopefully we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:30",
    "text": "make this decision sometime you know ATF 92 I agree so I mean we could just say yeah it\u0027s okay the way it is but I mean I think somebody raised the issue so I think we need to respond to them well I think the initial comment came from Fleming saying that he always thought these numbers were integers but yeah this is really a question for implement this more than anything right yeah that that was my assumption and they used to be integers if if that\u0027s not a universally shared assumption then you know I find if it is then again I think we have to be careful with changing things in a non backwards compatible matter especially if we\u0027re recommending not really to use this right except for backwards compatibility and legacy issues my memory might not be exactly right that my recollection is that in 4566 this just said it should be a number you know in text and there was no syntax and it didn\u0027t say whether I\u0027m just gives news yeah whether it\u0027ll of fractions or not so I was in the practice was in the process of trying to put some syntax in for it that the question came up and at the time which is like a couple of years ago you know I think we I couldn\u0027t find a full history but but we discussed it and decided that we thought maybe you ought to have fractions in it and so we ended up with syntax and fractions right so let me just ask the question I mean more generally in the room you know what a people\u0027s opinion you know experience implementation etcetera okay : fuckin so I have a hazy recollection we added it because there was a codec that needed it but then I went and looked and couldn\u0027t find one but there are lots of payload formats and maybe I missed it he said if the number will be an integer we will just leave it as an integer in the P time or max P time le but if there\u0027s a need for fractional values we will support it that\u0027s what we said at the time and Jonathan I mean Opus can do two-and-a-half millisecond decisions which is needed for very hard real-time encoding so okay so we got a use case yeah flowing and so I mean Olli I think what you just said I mean that text I think makes perfect sense right because that gives you the best of both worlds shouldn\u0027t break anything that doesn\u0027t need it and if something does well obviously it would support it okay all right okay issue number seven and this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:40",
    "text": "is section eight so you know Fleming at this comment why is the existing registration to 37:11 not used to why don\u0027t we just remove it from here I honestly didn\u0027t understand this comment very well but I mean why why does it hurt to have it here so as an individual I can I don\u0027t know if it hurts it was more question of is this what it should be referencing in the Ayana registry or should it be referencing 37:11 i mean the number is that the reference is in here because someone complained about it last time we were if this document okay okay I mean we we need to list the protocol the the protocols and whether they\u0027re I on a registry references this document or 37:11 I mean it the I on a registry should probably reference 57:11 I don\u0027t think it does any harm if this says this is a legal value I mean if we\u0027re going to list the values we should list all of them right they say as a PPF and a p PF and all of those well which is trivial to do great but if I recall correctly of course I don\u0027t remember the section numbers offhand was this in the ini ini registration section is right so I think there is an existing registration 237 11 and use you\u0027re suggesting changing that now 245 66 bills no I\u0027m not paying a registry all the text is the text here just lists the values which are in the registry I think and references the documents so we are saying it is it\u0027s not really saying register this under this registry right that\u0027s I know this document is fully in the registry in the registry as reference for defining some names that refer to some existing profiles yes this document should probably list all of the things which go in there in that registry and say you know the values in this registry are at EPA VP at EPA VP FSA VPSA vpf UDP whatever it is and lists the references for all of those and the registry should be made to match these listing that the legal values for the prototype field okay and then I suppose so we should put did not die in a editor saying that you know you should really make sure that the table the registry is up to date with all these lipsticks I mean if you put put it in here then the registry will be made up to date when I know this is a document holding the key yeah I think I disagree I mean what needs to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:43",
    "text": "here is instructions Diana to register things that aren\u0027t already in the registry from something else and I mean so like if the registry currently refers to 4566 then we probably ought to have something in here that I mean we need to have something in here that refer yeah you know that re-register is it since we don\u0027t want the registry to continue to reference 4566 but things that are already in the registry because they\u0027ve been registered by some other RFC I don\u0027t see I mean why putting them in here is helpful this makes it more complicated for instance if this if if someone were to to Rev 37:11 and and therefore its replacement changed their ego had a new ini registered in consideration section the change the registry to point it to it then then we just have a conflict with this document so Colin Perkins I actually went to read the registry so the registry the only thing that the registry has pointing to four five six six RTP AVP in and UDP which seems like the right thing to do the rest all reference and there are actually very many of them yeah and they all reference over the appropriate other documents so having read that I think the right thing to do that they\u0027d likely agree with Paul and take back what I said before this should just mention RTP AVP and UDP and say there are other values go see the registry okay what this should probably what I think this is probably doing is saying what goes in the registry so we should make sure it\u0027s clear about you know what what value you need and which I think it is it just says you need the name and the reference okay okay there are many more of these than I realized we\u0027d registered so just for my note I understand that to keep like this and to head that way the reference to the registry for the others I mean that\u0027s just just list this RTP AVP and the European and and is everything to do we remove the security P from here and then we say there are out of the area that into the registry and this is what goes into okay thanks like at the same section okay a similar comment for transport protocols we have an existing registration for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:44",
    "text": "UDP TL which references t-38 and the Fleming says it should refer to a 73 45 and I just checked this yesterday I think that\u0027s a correct statement comment and then should I just put it not for editor to fix this is that reference to UT PTL made the registration fee TTL made by this document or is it just no so just talk to the the INR getting to fix it so the chairs should talk to I honor and say look look was a mistake here please fix it okay okay so that\u0027s an action item for you I don\u0027t have the answer in front of me I yeah is this saying that RFC 73 45 has a I an a consideration section the hedgers registers is the definition for 40 38 no no the existing registration has UDP TL which seems and Fleming says this court in correct it should rather referred to as chapter 345 and the the action item here is for you know Fleming to contact ima and say you know you shall fix the Australia reference so this really has nothing to do with our pissed raft I agree it has done to do with our draft I guess my question is does if the references but yeah Paul surrender it it does 73 45 have anionic consideration section that the register is itself if the register is UT PTL pointing to itself it does okay no I just looked at it only it\u0027s only Jonathan since 73 45 is only UDP GL / DTLS not Roy UT PTL as far as I can tell okay then who does the UDP tale in the first place I don\u0027t know okay maybe t-38 well anyway people they will probably get this fixed one way or another there\u0027s a nerve well but III think I mean the comment from Jonathan right is is correct right seventy three forty five those actually did not register UDP TL it registers it over TLS which is a different thing so the initial reason for the comment was that there is a requirement here saying that you must reference an RFC and here we have a registration that does not you know maybe we\u0027ll just ignore that and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:45",
    "text": "say you know whatever that would be the easiest way of dealing with that we can follow up and run that down but it doesn\u0027t seem to impact this document no wouldn\u0027t what I mean maybe it\u0027s the right answer but wouldn\u0027t wouldn\u0027t I mean if this document remains like this then the only way to really fix the thing it sounds like if if currently the only definition for UT BTL isn\u0027t is is BFT 38 then wouldn\u0027t it require someone to submit an RC the references to 38 that that there the registry could reference more like you know we need to choose one is it affects us document is because of the this Ayane registry requirement and basically just edit this report this registry doesn\u0027t allow registrations by IT new documents but we\u0027ve done it anyway so maybe we should change the and I\u0027m not exactly sure how we should word this because we don\u0027t want this to be just specification required or something like that but we don\u0027t or maybe we should just say we\u0027re okay we\u0027re grandfather a t-38 and just tell I Anna but I mean I don\u0027t know that docking you needs to say that or just Ellie and I guess we\u0027re grandfathering that whatever comp against that there\u0027s an RFC somewhere that gives guidelines for writing ionic considerations and it has some suggested wordings for this sort of thing and I believe one of them is a standard a standard produced by recognized standards body and they\u0027ve got some suggested words for how to describe that if we want to generalize it so don\u0027t use so far as either specification required or RFC to quark I\u0027m sure that our others ask I honor and they will suggest appropriate wording okay they\u0027ve done this if you want to generalize it that way and I relocate you you know reduce the requirement from an RFC requirement to like a specification required by an in recognized organization are we okay with this microphone please Jonathan I was saying I\u0027d be more inclined to grandfather t-38 then give the IDU blanket permission to register these things going forward I I will decorate Stefan I mean as an individual "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:49",
    "text": "I agree with that as well no I think there is so I think the suggestion right now is that we will grandfather in c38 and that\u0027s it and we will keep the requirement as it is arrives to the court it\u0027s already in there so all right next slide please okay issue number 8 this is the media format section so this was a comment from Flemming and Paul where are these registrations to be done by any instructions and actual location of the corresponding registries are unclear so I mean there\u0027s a registry but nobody really seems to have big clear instructions for this registry so what do we do with that now our RFC 3 5 5 5 describes had to do this right but this is only for RTP for the media formats so that\u0027s the okay so I mean for the RTP case it says you use the media type registration which is the mine that are my media type registry work an RFC 3550 5 describes the registration processes and should possibly be cite it ok and for the rest it specifies how to do it for UDP should be registered of a protocols cutting the rules of the proto spec so it depends on the proto that\u0027s being described so for RTP it\u0027s RFC 3550 five the UDP it\u0027s what\u0027s written in here for anything else depends what that proton Pro is okay okay we should probably make that clear in the silicon Colin coming question for you do we need do we need additional specification around I mean how are those registrations for those other protocols done do we need to require that somebody has to write procedures for it or I mean right now it seems very open right that was the issue not only not clear I mean it is very open but that\u0027s because it depends on what the other protocol is okay I mean it basically says if you\u0027re using something other than RTP or UDP here I mean if you use flute for example then the flute spec should specify how you do the registration I\u0027ve types for for it and if that isn\u0027t clear we should clarify that the wording but it is it is intentionally very open because the the namespace depends on the protocol I think I think it\u0027s fine that it\u0027s open but I think a little bit more guidance than around how do you restrict that openness once you actually have a particular specification would be helpful yeah I mean it may make sense to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:51",
    "text": "put in something that says you know the proto value defines the namespace or whatever protocol is defined you need to need to specify how that namespace is managed I almost changed my mind bagger so it\u0027s come in anyway so it is clear then that that the namespace is definitely governed by the proto and there\u0027s no need for uniqueness the cross proto\u0027s yes yeah I\u0027m good yeah and I think basically this is a requirement jonathan acquirement on the RFC is we the previous slide was talking about basically when you when you register a proto one of the things that has to specify is what the media formats me and how they\u0027re registered good yep confidence I mean I think historically the only one of these for which we had any sort of well-defined policy was RTP and it\u0027s basically the hailer historical reasons and I mean if it\u0027s Harold walked in just as we started this discussion and we had a very very long argument about media types and ITP many years ago I\u0027m sure he recalls it took a long time to get there and at least some of the ambiguity is due to the the nature of the discussion of the time so for the note taker the we agree that we are leaving it more or less the way it is right now but we will tighten up the specification to say if you have new prototypes then I think Jonathan had some good text suggestion basically saying that that new proto needs to come up with procedures for how you manage the media format namespace under that proton Colin yeah I mean I think if we wanted to tighten it up we could say for anything other than RTP and UDP you might you know the new proto must describe the registration policy okay so for the note taker you got it must specify Alistair must define the registration for media formats names all right is it the last light okay one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:56",
    "text": "more okay the CT and a s so my of your comments should be max attributes is going to be in RFC sooner than our draft so it should be rather just let it go with that draft or should we should we ask I need to refer to that RFC actually or should we should we ask you to refer to our draft clapping and raise and so I mean I think it should point to forty five sixty six bits because you are changing the definitions right you\u0027re updating those right so that\u0027s why I think the registration should be updated accordingly new objections to that Paul are you okay with this as well I think near the comment earlier if I remember correctly what am i all right I actually don\u0027t remember if I if I had a comment I don\u0027t remember it so yeah I I don\u0027t have a position in this one okay so today too early in the morning something like so I don\u0027t remember really year I was a MUX attributes so um all right we have we added MUX attribute stuff to this document or not I don\u0027t think so right no actually you know we are updating a couple of registries and then we added a column for that right so so the Kerner so I had so I Anna updated these currently to add the monks have to be its reference because that\u0027s active it\u0027s extended the definitions right right well why did the registration change okay yeah so I mean so my question is do we still need the reference to monk\u0027s attributes to refer to what the MUX advocates draft did so that the IANA graph should refer to Perdition six miss and amongst that MUX attributes or just refer to fundraising C\u0027s expense isn\u0027t in question and clearly the fort of I think you think you have to get up into the best the question has read the MUX attributes part still be there as well and I don\u0027t remember exactly what the MUX attributes registration did enough to know I don\u0027t remember this stuff did the max "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:02",
    "text": "attribute document already strange the registration did you do a neurologist I should just put the text that what you should doing this what type it is order just I I don\u0027t recall it and I\u0027ll have to go check on that okay so I didn\u0027t think they did registration either just lunch and what is the policy for for it well they rework the registry format but I don\u0027t recall if they also changed any other registrations Mac said to be strapped it\u0027s a column for each attribute that says median accession only bought meat yes yeah I know that but the question was did they just go and update every registry that isn\u0027t it that\u0027s specified in the Dakin because they have a lot at least of all these attributes that they provide input about I don\u0027t know if they change the register for that for neutral registration you must have this new definition in the registry but I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know so the question is if now that you\u0027re doing a registry should you update the registry accordingly tools to specify the max attribute also as part of the registration if you are changing the registration of this of this value okay does that mean there are any changes should have been already implemented believe so yeah sure we can just go to the Aria and see what changes they did place today all right so the action item is checked the current register a given that the max attribute is in the RFC editor queue and say you know how they actually changed or replaced registries and then you know based on that we can we can refine the text over here because by the time we go through the process those tables are gonna be refreshed in a way so right that\u0027s right all right Thank You Ronnie had been Campbell before you sit down on this one the open issue seven got Adam and I looking at the text for the proto registry and if weird it should be registered and then further down it\u0027s well it can be experimental or informational but should be standards track and these are all kind of unenforceable the way they are or if it makes it over might make it tough on the expert so just to let you know we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "talking about that and we may bring that back up yeah obviously it\u0027s been the way it\u0027s been for a long time that\u0027s legacy text but but it\u0027s weird confidence that there were a lot of legacy uses of that field at the time 45066 was being done which is why this text is so weird we may want to clean it up I don\u0027t know I suspect most of those are gone by now I suspect the math stuff has disappeared by now it was a long time ago in that case I think the area Adam and I are probably an agreement that the working group should look at fixing that and picking one of the currently defined policies and if we need some text to grandfather stuff it\u0027s already there that\u0027s fine all right so for the note taker Ronnie you got that all right Thank You Ali mark next all right so my guitar I see past EP on this draft we are not able to make it this morning early and and so us we met on I met with Zubaz on on Monday and we had at the time five open issue that we were going to present but I think on Tuesday sue us met with Krista who is working on the ice visa and apparently the as I serve or the remaining so many issues so they are supposed to source were supposed to publish a new version of ice sdp and so I asked us to send me a slider which you have here there is only one once right so hopefully we will have the new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:04",
    "text": "version and and the response on on Krista and flaming reviews soon in meaningless so I am reading like like users loss right so the next step will be to remove that receive nominations references remove the generic isolated residue and simplify clarify the other officer section and at the cheetah if you have any question of command I will the exam to sue us but any question comment I can help with I can maybe this is a clarifying question generator PDR versus submitting an updated draft is that one of the same or not no it\u0027s not a PR is a proposition to modify the document and publication after that so when should we expect an updated document so let\u0027s go yeah I think you will not see a new version of the document before me and again it\u0027s not in my okay this is a Ben I just wanted to remind the room that this is a cluster 238 lynchpin so I understand people can get work done when they get it done may seems like a long time I don\u0027t know if I can make any specific recommendation other than I\u0027m a little sad but I guess we do what we can do yeah I I would certainly a volunteer to work with us on this but I am NOT back in in the US and he\u0027ll meet up for so I could not even help on this honor - you know I mean I I think I\u0027m in the chairs point of view I mean we\u0027ll try to contact the authors and see if we can get this expedited also give you a sense of competition I think this draft and flex back payload flex back or in in a race to see who can be the final linchpin what\u0027s the winning criteria not having the RFC editor frown at you when at all when it all comes out at 1finity your draft fault sign when they at RFC all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:21",
    "text": "right I will I will try I will contact us who has not next week I am both but do we have after and see if we can accelerate and at least have a new version need poor appreciate it to do I welcome a one one other comment and it\u0027s I\u0027m not going to tell people how to do the work but draft revisions are cheap and often these things are easier to review in the form of a graph then in the SPR for some people okay as I said I reload contacts to us to eat from yeah I am a core so I don\u0027t want to be the last in the crystallizer so let\u0027s see if I can well something you can do that yeah alright thank you much that is it unless anybody else has anything they want to bring up alright thank you everyone and enjoy the rest of you day yeah "
  }
]