[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:19",
    "text": "nice okay folks we\u0027re gonna start if you\u0027re at the back of the room chatting then come in or go out or whichever okay so this is the lake working group just our first meeting as a working group my name is Steven Farrell and I\u0027m Ally short tonight so we\u0027re here to help we have those slides we have them to people taking notes and etherpad and jabber scribe there\u0027s the note well here\u0027s the agenda anybody want to bash the agenda so just to explain I think John\u0027s presentation is probably the media space and here it comes in kind of two parts he\u0027s got about six or seven slides the beginning just kind of providing context and background if you can kind of just keep it to clarifying questions for that bitch that\u0027ll be great and then there\u0027s one slide that says this question just before we get there we\u0027ll do a home to see if the people in the room would like to adopt that draft confirm the list obviously later and then we can go on and discuss the details of the requirements and comments people have on them that\u0027s okay so any other agenda bashing I think Michael Richardson had to be in the LMO working group so militias gonna just present a couple slides he gave us is that all good in that case John now I would see what happened so I hit this button so this is a presentation on the lightweight a cape Oscar requirements draft it\u0027s now in version 3 it has been updated twice since the last ITF is the boss so what is Lake and this presentation wasn\u0027t been asked to not to try to not repeat these discussions from the SEC Dispatch in Tremont to the both Surrey will be quite little about radio protocols background lake is about specifying a lightweight authentication key protocol for Oh score and light weight is really the important thing here if we don\u0027t do it lightweight it will not work well for six days and orowan and then we have failed requirements for light weight is following what is comes to constrained by environments defined in RFC 72 8 what we need to discuss here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:22",
    "text": "is how do these constraint environment apply to an aka and especially which radio technologies which type of devices so this is not in news this is the first working group session but it\u0027s not a new subject and has been discussed in ace it has been discussed in six - dispatch interim there was a both and has also been discussed in other group for example extension a in six thick dish so the requirement dropped we have added a lot more material for basically the different required areas of requirements we also try to make the requirements more strict and more specific steel things to do but I think this is a good start recovering basic I think we\u0027re covering the areas that should be covered and think there is this sixth type of things we go through them there will not be a much lightweight is very important to radio technology but that will not be repeated here so first the lake is an key exchange for off score what does that mean means that it needs to provide what horse core needs so if you don\u0027t know that Oscar is a security protocol for co-op Oscar needs a master secret and that should have good properties oscar already have he exchanged without if a Hellman so this aka should provide PFS Oscar also need sender IDs which is identifying the end points and then Oscar needs some cozy algorithm\u0027s core is built on cozy as need Cosell great stop rate then take a shall use Siebel co-op and cozy what this boils down to is that it should not add too much code and complexity to implementation then because I just clarify when you say that Oscar needs cozy algorithms to use that just means it needs to know which ones to use yes exactly needs an identifier or something yeah and I think the current version of this requirements documents have too much shell there will be further discussion should be which which of the D so really should the may be some or maybe depending on the trade-offs JK should be able to this one is the Oscars and IDs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "if I remember correctly that\u0027s the way to associate the security context it\u0027s of the Oscar yeah yeah so there\u0027s two in different directions yeah I mean similar to the connection IDs so you\u0027re yeah should support the same transport co-op and Lake to not spend time duplicating functionality that is always already available in coop such as packet loss reordering the application fragmentation and dollar service protection wait hi so maybe it\u0027s on the following slides I\u0027ll ask anyway so is it on purpose that it doesn\u0027t say how is how\u0027s the key exchange authenticated are you planning to support our PKS PSK certificates yes I coming to that on later slides next type of properties is authentication credentials and crypto properties and we believe that it should support mutual authentication I think is a requirement for IOT we think the aka needs to support PSK or PKM public key certificates there\u0027s been a request on the list that it should take a should support different public key credentials for different endpoints ie one endpoint authenticate with a certificate and the other with a or PK I think it was Michael Richardson has also come up in discussion earlier should also support any are UT ways to identify these credentials this yes this list the list of what is currently available in ku has been discussed and is on the way of being designed for kausi a Kay should support shall support identity protection definitely here for for public keys late with different protection for for practical reasons for the initiator and the sponsor it would be good if they gave supported identity protection for PSK is come with a lot of trade-offs so it might not be worth it in them which occur pointed out on the list today and I that is part of the discussion later today the occasion support negotiation yeah this is honest um I was wondering about one aspect that came up in CFR Qi not too long ago namely the use of password based strong as a authenticated "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:23",
    "text": "key exchanges which people they are also proposed as a need for IOT environments and I was it didn\u0027t came up in at least and I thought it was supposed to be an intentional omission or I don\u0027t know it has not come up in these discussions the use cases we have seen in six stations or not it has not been a requirement I think it\u0027s mainly used for maybe home deployments so it\u0027s for further discussion if you if you think that should be included it\u0027s not included in the requirement document right now Tara Harkins are the public keys in these certificates and the trusted are PRK are they like a certified diffie-hellman key or certified signature key do you can well though well can you do a like without doing a DSA for instance could you do it with just a few almonds yeah I think so and yeah and that\u0027s also that\u0027s for further that is in the discussion at the end I think yeah take it okay I think that\u0027s requirement you might repeat what Richard said off the mic or Richard could do that I guess is Richard burns I just said it is possible to in fact to build aches that only use the H keys and that\u0027s nuts like yeah yeah I think more using if you have monkeys probably come from limiting message size that rather than requirement that somebody only has that and can only use that they K needs to be support negotiation of algorithm\u0027s core and for the a K has been pointed out people wants to be able to change algorithm in the lifetime of their devices and the negotiation selection should be protected against downgrade attacks by many new models more crypto properties compromise of the long term keys we need to protect against should come an attacker compromising the long term kiss you not be able to compromise past session key so-called perfect forward secrecy should also protect against passive attacker compromising future keys it should be forced to be active at least they ke should provide keep compromised impersonation so if you take the initiators key issue no cable to the attacker should not be able to authenticate the responder towards the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:25",
    "text": "initiator and then they should provide about against miss panty attacks and reflection attacks such as the selfie attack okay this is a little nitpicky but I noticed this in the document too and I should have commented um so on the selfie attack actually had two variants right one was a straight up reflection attack and the other was when you have multiple endpoints with on the same the same key material um you know they\u0027re both actors client and server like so are you saying both or just one only to Paul T right now there has been no suggestion to expand this to multiple parties having the PS case the two party tsk yeah to my knowledge the only way to fix that attack is to have asymmetry between the client and server role for the key I think you can have rules you could forbid the simultaneous connection or you could check that the reflected messages are not the same as I say that that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying so the on the the something paper right describes a setting in which you have two settings right one in which you are reflected back to yourself and then which you have two endpoints each of which can act as client and server the same key say you have like a VPN gateway that\u0027s got concert across two to two boxes right and so on so you\u0027re right the thief or the reflection attack you can stop that by comparing by comparing someone that one of the one of the not only random values but for the for the sir crossing attack you actually have to have as far as I understand it I\u0027m something different because you can\u0027t get on to separate out the key material client server and not let people act simultaneously anyway it\u0027s like we talked about it but like it\u0027s probably worth flushing metal bar yeah it should be friend he predict against all serious attacks we need to flesh out that so I was actually going to say the same thing as I could said because protecting against all kinds of selfie attacks you would need some kind of strong identities and maybe it might be worth saying that we are protecting against this specific kind of selfie attacks and we are only considering two-party communication even though two parties is a group of two so if you\u0027re not going to allow parallel sessions and so on it should be explicitly in the requirements document at the beginning for the benefit of folks that are removed if you\u0027re speaking at the mic you just speak your name and remain teenager since I\u0027m saying the next type of requirement is on application data there\u0027s been requirements put perform 60s among others to transfer application data in the protocol for exam for example "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:27",
    "text": "authorization tokens this could also be transferred outside of the protocol but transferring them in this protocol give benefits even if it\u0027s not protected and for later messages it might be protected so example this type of application data is authorization information that has PA proof of possession tokens authorization vultures could also be certificate enrollment request and there\u0027s been requests from academia to have the strict requirements for this so you can verify in formal verification saying if any protocol fulfills these requirements or not it sounds like you have some discussions later but this is actually quite it seems like quite a subtle point to describe is a key requirement is right exactly how it specially bound in you know cetera right is it like in particular just part of the protocol transcript in like as a so-so probably have to like really define I something like carrying it is easy um it\u0027s it\u0027s carrying a safe weight sorry yeah then light weight light weight is a big discussion in itself but as the both and SEC dispatch interim focused very heavily on lightweight ready protocols we are not repeating that as now main things that may be main highlights of what life it should mean is that it should have a few round trips few messages if you increase it to more messages it takes in some cases it increases the latency significantly and two of the radio technologies that has as a need for a lightweight aks lauraball and 66 Laura Vaughn has very small frames and then it also depends what kind of things do you put in them except the vacay a number that was mentioned for Laura one was 54 bytes for payload 60 is a bit more complicated than the amount of payload depends on the amount of hops estimates for five hopes are similar to Laura bond around 54 bytes but that decreases for each hope you want to support now the requirement is processing memory and especially code size yes so from the jabber Julian Catalano says actually Laura one can go down to 11 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:28",
    "text": "bytes u.s. regulation yeah yeah so 54 bytes is not the lowest Laura Boehm I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s possible to support 11 there\u0027s these are just example of constrain right away there is Laura bond can be even more constrained you have six folks that have eight byte there\u0027s probably audio radio technologies current and future that will also be more or less constrained but did they drop the requirements draft has substantially expanded this and try to put down the information from that was discussed in the buff and six dispar Richard is reference so I think you may be able to be a bit more specific on that first one I think all the candidates one might imagine plugging in here are basically three message protocols so I think focusing the work here on like a one and a half hour tt sort of framework would be it seems like it all constraints me I think messages here more applied to lower layer messages softer fragmentation whenever which might happen on different layers boy so three message protocols work fine when the lower layer is reliable a bit more tricky to implement when the lower layer is UDP or something so unless you\u0027re going to say it\u0027s TCP or something reliable I am not sure if we can just put the number three there I mean details one two is three are in can do three messages I think any you can as long as you have reasonable assumptions about retransmitted knowledge mate you can do it in three no somos it can you talk to the mic please so you will do the retransmission and acknowledgement that at the layer of the key exchange then yeah sure so basically I mean if you look at the details one for details one to design you can see this or basically on basically the the the person transmitted last rise that drives right drives the transmission except for like I said for the last light which is just a tail and then the and so like and then the thermistor protocol the server basically the server basically view transmits until it receives the until receives a client\u0027s message and then it just stops I didn\u0027t I didn\u0027t say it\u0027s not a pain I\u0027m just saying you don\u0027t need it only solicit acts right um so um I mean like I mean I mean you can do it on about things good about I\u0027m just as possible I think you know in this requirements talk when you could make a distinction between like a clear round trips like in other context I say application they\u0027re round trips and like transport round trips like I think we probably agree "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:28",
    "text": "that like one and a half hour TT at the logical ache layer is probably worth welcome sorry even if that requires more machinery underneath you on that I agree with Richard well it is Elizabeth just worried about the requirement for three or four messages in IPSec American group in eye coercion one we had three messages exchanges and it was a real pain because the retransmission logic was to be switched from initiated to responder for the first message and for I question two it was switched for the logic said all the exchanges must have an even number of messages for unreliable protocol it simplifies implementations a lot yeah I think this is can be a topic for discussion I think so far I heard what we have heard from six stitches that they prefer three for example but there are there are trade-offs different also are the trade-offs then that for example P is K hiding and this motion mature cutoff just regarding the sixties requirement what you said about three pass we discussed essentially that it would be more preferable to sometimes to have a four pass protocol if it wouldn\u0027t require fragmentation than a three pass protocol and one message would get fragmented into into two frames the last slide on a gave frequency how often is the aka going to run which was a discussion topic on the list I don\u0027t remember who raised the question but that\u0027s a good question I think it\u0027s hard to give an exact answer for all devices in use cases for for the most extreme use cases running a defilement is probably to have a in the B to start with they are out of scope for Lake as far as I see it then you can use score without a K typically you will run the gay ones during bootstrapping but then you might you will probably run it more some of these devices are not very stable they will reboot and then you typically run them depending on how how much you can save in persistent storage Thomas had this an exam I mentioned that before specifically if you care about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "efficiency and for example taking the issue of the recovery and how often you run into inter count is obviously important so for example devices that don\u0027t have persistent storage is often very difficult because where does the code actually reside right that\u0027s hopefully on a persistent storage it doesn\u0027t get sucked in from from the network and also this when you think about the impact the key compromise and that\u0027s those recommendations where and you don\u0027t mention them explicitly here but which one you mean but they often take into account existing work for example in web browsers in other in other environments where their communication situation is somewhat different also the assumptions about where keys are stored for example in a in a browser cache etc are also different so those need to be looked at before of a grain of salt I believe so how does just as a reminder before you came in I asked people to try and stick to clarifying questions until after this slide I\u0027m gonna do an adoption Carl and then have this kind of discussion you didn\u0027t you hadn\u0027t come in that good when you said but we\u0027ve time so I\u0027m not yeah I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t think we need to be strict we do have time so I mean where did this third point on this is obviously a sort of security requirement that we struggle with in MLS as well so on in terms of forward secrecy key compen keep my key compromise namely in terms on internet that is compromised at point T and for data before point T then it suffice is simply too rash to the keys it\u0027s not necessary diffie-hellman is change the diffie-hellman changes required for doing pcs up got my security however on when I say mr. deverel with that because on if unless you\u0027re doing basically um unless unless you\u0027re unless you\u0027re doing like continuing registering with the same condition as president a new connection you don\u0027t actually get pcs because he\u0027s compromised the Fen occasion he\u0027s vices to put to to uh screw things up so um I think actually I\u0027m not entirely sure this last this last point is correct um Richard can pull me elaborate more but I know it was quite an issue yeah I was just gonna say that you know this this is a requirement on the aq that it\u0027s going to need a little bit of but it\u0027s going to need a little bit of precision because it\u0027s just framing us in terms of like existing or send the existing technology yeah we\u0027re gonna need to distinguish rather we need like a session resumption thing something that\u0027s like session resumption in TOS or something that\u0027s like key update in TLS that just hash ratchets forward or something that\u0027s like pcs updates in MLS right because those are fairly different shapes in the protocol and so understanding which of those ends up as a requirement in this is going to be important as I understand it Oh score already supports effectively hash ratcheting um though I\u0027m trying to resign and may not be a traction but it doesn\u0027t say I guess because does think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "this is a master key I guess you actually rush it forward is it a ratchet or is it like as like more like session recite some more like one two session assumption remember as a reminder if you can say your name and you got a mic that\u0027ll be great yeah so in the in the reboot scenario we probably have just assumed that there is no state to fall back on so then a hashing solution probably does not work but that\u0027s a very good good thing I don\u0027t remember what the requirements documents assess it might be have to be formulated in more norm diffie-hellman terms requirements cited here for be a scientist and uncie is recommendation requirements for IPSec which they don\u0027t remember if it BSI or ANSI but for IPSec they recommend doing it if Hellman every hour that\u0027s not doable for constraint IOT but probably the constraint IOT should protect their keys they should do the fireman or retching more often than their time 10-year life cycle right so this actually I think is like quite an important point which is that um because we\u0027re also trying to minimize on you know bandwidth and computation if the purpose is having pcs or or or DL memory refresh in any case then what you really need is saying smells much more like tail a session resumption because you want to do just that if you helmet but you don\u0027t want to incur the RPK authentication cost the the signature or the set of the second diffie-hellman um or I guess third if you hum in but you go I baby that\u0027s right I\u0027m gonna like a signal type to be the same type protocol right has basically three four key operations as opposed to one and so if what you want to do is keep you fresh but you\u0027re not concerned about you aren\u0027t going with us right so um so I think they\u0027re definitely a sharp in this point if we think if we if we think I sort of read this is background material in terms of like on this because the questions are frequency often come up in there like how why does it really have to be because you didn\u0027t like once a year so who cares right but if this is actually a set of requirements that it\u0027s like no you have to support like you know refresh you know running it in the egg every every two hours or every day or whatever it is then actually it becomes quite important to have to bootstrap for me from the boots jump from the full public key authentication into a kind of presumption mode we only do a few elements so like that\u0027s a requirement five to sharpen up yeah so this would be this would be a full authentication this could be definitive so by a resumption good mood so I\u0027m wondering if if we can have this possibility where the server or one of the parties can decide on how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:29",
    "text": "frequently this is done if if the server for example knows information about the device whether you know it\u0027s battery-operated and cannot do Kirra fresh let\u0027s say more than once once a day or once in a week it can choose and then then the other side has to kind of follow that yeah that\u0027s a good point that if there is that definitely needs to be agreed somehow either in band or auto bania but or what I was thinking is one party is the one that decides how frequently this is done you know at least in my mind it would be this over that decides how how frequently this update is done based on information it has about the flying device yeah but I don\u0027t know the co absorber might be the constrain one so it\u0027s I don\u0027t know it\u0027s lying server is but one of the notes yes giving it to Ricky it\u0027s actually you say some pretty does IPSec in one hour that\u0027s very frequently I think more common is eight hours in VPN environments and this is not VPN this is very low bandwidth low base account I would expect them to do Ricky very seldom be like like a once a week or something like that and they\u0027ll be have to do about what are we protecting against I mean if you are sending ten packets during the week what is the you know the benefit for attacker to actually be able to decrypt those and the next question is that in some cases the keys are that required we know so of course one of the benefits there is to do frequent Ricky\u0027s is that if one of the device is stolen and the case is extracted from the device but then we intended a rekeying is much more expensive than such 24 because you have to talk to each other if you have to wake up every device in the network change the key so it\u0027s not that easy thing and in for example IPSec we decided so that we actually be hey Mike person want to be had all of this you know we have to do Ricky every eight hours we have to do this and we chose negotiate it and then we these are the actually completely bullshit because we don\u0027t need to do that either range has their own policy they decided to do Ricky they can imitate Ricky whenever they eat and if they might have a completely different policy so one in Mike said that okay I do it every hour because I I could do that the other one says okay I do it after the four gigabytes and whichever you know reaches first he\u0027s called the unfortunate anyway the one who has all of our policies contain forces anyway so that\u0027s going to be a similar kind of things would be used here yeah that\u0027s a good point and not meaning that this is taking as a counter example to many IOT devices today that use a PS k don\u0027t dude if they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "have mind Eddie use that PS k for for ten years until the battery dies so I agree with that oh maybe we shouldn\u0027t set the time but rather one side can offer and other side can always reject yeah and in the policy my top P time it might be number of encrypted data also so lightweight aka reduces the network formation time for for example six dish we have a lot of typically deploy a number of devices and they all want to connect at the same time when they reboot you want to have them too quickly reestablish security yeah and keep renewal we already spoken about I think that this summary of the requirements document as it is today there\u0027s still a lot of discussed and to specify better but I think it\u0027s a good start ok thanks thanks John you can sit down from it or not or whichever you like for a minute yes so we\u0027re planning to do is just find out how many people have read this see if there\u0027s a sense in the room that we want to adopt this ask a couple questions about process do we want to use github issues that kind of thing and then kind of have out the actual substantive requirements discussion and so on so is that ok I could you want it yeah think so um before we do that are you know yeah are you taking Holmes to think maybe like some come some predicate questions before you do that or do you want a discussion on the topic of adoption yeah so I think I guess um so I think this is a concern I agree with John I think and I guess um I think that the the the process question I think it is like because we\u0027re not publishing RFC we\u0027re gonna have to at some point where were like hey this is like done um and then we\u0027re like turning to do a selection process right on so um like um so I think the the the question then is like what the home for adoption means and hundred-dollar means the conventional thing which is that um you know this is we\u0027re taking this audience you can store the becomes a working document and we work on it for a while and at some point the future we\u0027re gonna have like a discussion about is this done enough to destruction process then like let\u0027s adopt I\u0027m in favor if it if the honey is hey this is like really a selection process that um so um can you repeat the one you don\u0027t like if the if the humming for is oh this is done enough to start doing a selection process then I\u0027m not in favor of that um so um but like I said I think it\u0027s a go starting if the hum is let\u0027s take it on as a working document and then refine it for a while and then decide we\u0027re ready to select then on playing board things yeah we\u0027re in your happy mode yes yeah so it\u0027s the first one the one that Becker likes okay so any other questions about that before we\u0027re so we\u0027re gonna "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "have a home just if first actually I backed out how many people have read this document including previous versions is that good anymore okay so there\u0027s about a dozen or so great so we have a home to say do we think this is ready to adopt as a indem that\u0027s with the cavity of the backer had that we\u0027re gonna work on it and then do a working a bass call type thing later before we do funny selection I wanted add we had two more of on Jabbar thank you so the question will be do we want to adopt those drafts to be home yes then he\u0027ll know so if you want to adopt this Taft please home now thank you if you think we should not adopt yeah don\u0027t tell us how many Jeffery plus three in jabber thank you if you think we should not adopt this draft please home now and nothing in Jabra I can see that great sound silent from back here yeah me too that\u0027s great because I\u0027ve got a little way we would have had to panic because what we\u0027d be doing for the rest of the day and great so we\u0027re gonna do that how do people want to handle kind of issue tracking or not know that we just uses mailing lists or do people want to do other things like with github and issues please give us your thoughts I would like github okay and and so to use the issue tracking in github yeah I would at least prefer if we had issues recorded and get out so I could like pull up a list of what\u0027s outstanding I mean as far as discussion of issues I\u0027m happy to have that on the mailing list or and github or whatever okay so will will cause that to happen or find somebody\u0027s do it for us I think that\u0027s the only process e type thing for now so now I guess the question is the discussion of the actual requirements so John has a couple more slides unless we\u0027ve gotten some mail from echo recently so there\u0027s probably a couple topics to bring up so we\u0027d like to have this question of those now please remember now is it in the next year 45 minutes yeah yeah mister let him finish the slides first so are there any ground rules we want to set up as we\u0027re teeing up the topics about how to field questions free answer is no is what I mean that\u0027s I I think the answer is no but I\u0027m not quite sure what your question was I\u0027m just asking because we talked about clarifying questions we did not really kind of follow that so go for a free-for-all yeah yep so these are discussion topics mostly from Kartik poster on the list in different one about static D H "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "requirements then Khattak posted a review on different security properties the echo poster review today or at least comments these discussion topics has not been updated to cover that but I think we have time for to discuss yeah yeah so one discussion is shall we use static diffie-hellman key sand and then how this was something me and Joran started and working on in the ad hoc document before summer we then Karthik posted on the list that this is independently that this is a good idea and for the latest version of Ed hoc we included that arrow keys used her as reference it\u0027s but it\u0027s not essential for the discussion and the reason by both we and Karthik think that static diffie-hellman keys should be it\u0027s more a solution but why it should be considered is that it significantly reduces it can reduce their overhead when you use a symmetric keys and this is especially when you use or PK the relative differences between signature a K and the static diffie-hellman a K is substantial so here as an example this are the examples from the ED hook document so here is here is the RPK with signature and here is the RPK with static diffie-hellman keys and you almost get down to what you get with a PS k are you assuming CCM 18 here not heed hook is using that but this doesn\u0027t assume anything well I I guess um right on I think so I think I think I think there is um there\u0027s a consideration here which is that the certainly in tell us and I think in deadlock as well on the negotiation is partly protected via the signature over the transcript and um and so the on and and so an attacker can\u0027t downgrade your symmetric-key symmetric keys however in this mode the only signature protection is provided by these by the symmetric cipher suite and so and so basically in um so if you\u0027re using CCM a you only had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:31",
    "text": "a 64 bits of security against NC downgrade right and so on and so it seems like basically and thats protest less than a shoo-in on in this engine as I say because because um because the way a tax design is really would be in TLS like I say on but um I don\u0027t sure so I guess I\u0027m nitpicking because I think you Office Lee get you obviously guess is the actual advantage with if you Almon that you do it they do over a person issues I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s quite as large as this um because I think I think you I think you\u0027d want to use like a like a like a 20 octet or 32 octet Mac rather than simply they ate out at Mac only storage for the transfer transcript Mac on the on I think where that actually brings me to I think is is um is the bigger point which what the requirement looks like which is which is what is the sort of guarantee that the this RUC guarantee the see you see or CR Garrett or CK guarantees of the of the eight versus the guarantees of the of the transport protocol yep I think bigger max can be discussed in general also for any PS camel do you want the same length of Mac in the authentication as you want in the not doing that I\u0027m concerned about that as well yeah I think I think basically that um having an ache were the only security for the anti downgrade is provided by the it\u0027s provided by the but by that by the channel but application security transport gives you a Streamy weekend young great defense right because it means that you\u0027re basically it\u0027s only the strong is the integrity check on the on the on the record layer whereas whereas if you have a arm whereas you have either\u0027s injury the entire transcript or you have a strong knock of the entire transcript then you\u0027re strong even if you\u0027re extraordinarily weak record layer and I guess Michael here right as a magic imagine you had like a record layer were like no integrity um or you had one with you know 32 bits of into a check so now you have a million generator all in there are in the PSK case um whereas you would in our PJs again assuming it\u0027s only sign the whole transport I think does yeah it might be might be reason to allow different Mac sizes in the different but it\u0027s also I think I said 54 before where I think 45 is the number in close to the available payload size in both Laura bond and six dish with five hopes so it might be if you go to 16 bit if byte Mac in the PSK you you need to change to fruit 2 frames then the question is is that it were yeah yeah I think my guess yeah I mean so I guess also important distinguish between the the transport level Mac and the eighth level Mac right so um so some some protocols like like I mean I think like so so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s quite possible say look we\u0027re just gonna absorb an extra an extra Mac only in the handshake "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:32",
    "text": "messages but we\u0027re not gonna it in every message I mean it and so like one advantage that is then you can have you can have extraordinary just Brit security security value for the handshake in for that for the transport layers yeah so is that issue captured somewhere in one of the male\u0027s that somebody\u0027s enter in the document um I think I don\u0027t think so cuz like on isn\u0027t because not cuz I didn\u0027t but I mean the document is any count great right dozen really define me hunger it is and so now probably so probably that so I can find a file an issue when this is sure to clarify what any down really means because actually it\u0027s actually it\u0027s um subtle so I did note in my comments the a downgrade on doesn\u0027t apply to this annotation scheme because obviously is what printing you from down being downright in the first place but so it\u0027s like just important to like clarify what a downgrade means um and and and what it defends against want those not Terro I don\u0027t know did you cover that in a minutes Troy yeah so basically with static definite Hammond as I already said the signature is basically changed to connect and there is numbers different ways of formatting this the messages and doing iteration that\u0027s not important for them requirement discussions but I think the important discussion here should we work on a solution that supports static diffie-hellman keys especially for his K for all K and my feeling and the feeling from Karthik is yes we should I think the solution needs to be chaotic system was that maybe we can only do static diffie-hellman key I think that in some theoretical sense that would be good but I think we we will probably need to support PSK six dishes today built on PSK signature x.509 signature is typically based on signature keys I don\u0027t know if all see a support if you have mom start to give Helen well I I agree I think we should I think I think it was somebody else know what I was gonna say it\u0027s like I wonder if if like there\u0027s an underlying extensibility requirement and there\u0027s there\u0027s some semi static drafts in TLS working group right now that are basically taking advantage of the extensibility that TLS has in the signature types and in the public key type so you put in certificates to make it very quite seamless how you can take what was originally a signature based protocol and swap out signatures for us sending static max so a though that was gonna I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "was have a general comment about extensibility but it seems like ensuring we have extensibility in signature types and public key types might solve this problem for us I think that\u0027s probably true I was gonna saying different they\u0027re not necessarily conflicting which is um I think we clearly are gonna need to have both city I we really need is a signature store works just get away too many cases people not gonna have to feel my keys right and and I don\u0027t think and and I think like it\u0027d be good to support actually filmin I think would be egg okay I mean like you know we got like like you know six months ago instead heard of this we like work talking a sexy feel min so like we thought it was good enough that\u0027s integer so but maybe it\u0027s not like a hard worker but obviously if I\u0027m we\u0027re gonna have to obviously the size issue or earlier but obviously cuz you\u0027re substantial size advantage so it\u0027s worth be it\u0027d be really good to be able to support it on the on I don\u0027t think I don\u0027t I think so and I don\u0027t think it makes sense to only so yeah I think that they\u0027ll be good as will support it the RPK say um yeah I think we should support one like this is correct so yeah so it seems to be I think the whole requirements is probably to support PSK and the certificates with signatures them static development kids come from requirements to try to optimize the message overhead as much as possible then second bullet here is how much flexibility in using different types of public key credentials we should allow and what our requirements for that has been requirement Mitchell Michael Richardson has expressed expressed that he he mode like the solution to support mixed or PK certificate authentication so one party attempt gauge with his certificates one party attends with the or PK I had picture that earlier if you believe done that static development Keys will be used with or decay and you would probably also want to support signature in one direction and static development keys in the other direction well that\u0027s more what follows if you use that in different keys no comment then second part here of the discussion item is raised by was raised by Karthik "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "couple of weeks ago he commented on the protection of the PS PS ki-10 to fire and in his comment he took current ad hoc draft as an example where the PS k identifier is revealed not confidentiality protected in message 1 pls do the same thing and the question here what should the requirements about this be so but Celtic suggested was to move the ID identifier for the PS k to message 3 then you can hide it against the active attackers but you run into other problems might which might be worse than the confidential of the PS k identifier so if you only if you the protocol seriously by Karthik then at the end here of message 3 / TV is not authenticated then you need to add more messages other aka or application layer and if you do that then you don\u0027t really have a free message protocol anymore okay I\u0027m assuming you\u0027ve another slide on this what do you another slide on this yeah following up but yeah yeah well I\u0027m sensing I\u0027m saying I may be getting ahead of you but I\u0027m sensing your recommendation is we do not do this that\u0027s mine yeah I think it needs I think that should probably for practical it would be good to have but for practical reasons probably it will stay as it would be good to have yeah yeah um I think I think my concern is it is it distorts the product like it distorts the protocol quite a bit and it makes it hard as you say but you got three forms of protocol also means that um that as you that on some things you might want to do um so you alluded earlier the idea of having application data carried along with these messages on and in in in in your in sorry can you can you go back to this either one of them any of the public key verticals yeah perfect um so in this protocol right anything you anything that V sends to you in message to is a fennec aidid so at 0 v RT t traffic however in but in and and that would also be true if you had the PS k in if you the PS k identity in in in in a message one but now in this case that is not true and i have a protocol like while we despair it like like under late like security security properties depending on where you stuff the PS k and so I think that like just like like unless we have like you know we\u0027re attached to do requirements so if someone comes to us and says you know sick petitioner whatever says we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "obviously have to have this property well we\u0027ve gotten pretty far like in the IETF or that reckoning this property and I think like this is like gonna make our lives pretty miserable so I\u0027m not in favor unless someone comes and says hard wiring for their application yeah I agree I don\u0027t think we should expand this to full message party for this reason if there\u0027s any other reasons to expand it then this can be discussed but right now I don\u0027t think so the next slide is so this is following up Celtx and review of the requirement draft couple of days ago I think it was beginning probably Monday this week and he suggested that the requirement dropped described the desirous gold of identifying information in in general and he suggested four different levels where level serie would be all identifying information should be protect against passive network adversary\u0027s one is information from one device should be protected from active network attackers and to both by information from both devices active attackers and identify information must be deniable repudiate 11 if the peer is malicious and yeah going back to I think it\u0027s good to clarify this stricter I\u0027m not sure this protocol should we will reach even zero based on the discussion here with the PSK that is in depending on what you count us identifiable information but in general the PSK identifier would be identifiable information if you send there what kind of algorithm support that might be identifiable information if you use if you send sender IDs or TLS connection IDs then whatever number you put there might be identifiable information so I I think already zero here might be too strong I I agree I agree and I don\u0027t actually stand point three that seems like actually that seems like actually quite a strong property in it I don\u0027t think any signature based scheme meets that property so I mean the um that the diffie-hellman basically means do of course because Yuka because either so I can for the transcript the inertia games do not so I I I do this hierarchies quite weird um my impression is that like essentially every ITF protocol this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "is every ITF a Kenny because ever designed has this into the same properties here well except for tails one to which I have even worse properties so I think like we\u0027ve got a consensus about like what these don\u0027t look like which is to say um we don\u0027t worry too much about finger printing of the initial messages and we tried it and we try to do the protection of the entities the way you described the described in your document which is to say that the initiators identity the funders entities secure as passive attack attackers the initiators against active attackers I think that\u0027s where I set of trade-offs and I think yes what your document says so I think like I\u0027m not sure we have the big a ginger yeah what I get agree with with Kathy is that we should document the requirements or properties that we want in more clear way I agree with a cure that you should not probably not choose some of these these are good better come with this properties come with trade-offs that goes probably against the lightweight Ness I think the main main thing we want to achieve here is like less we don\u0027t want to create the most theoretical secure protocol it should definitely be very secure but we don\u0027t I think this might go too far or for practical reasons for example I protecting the identifier of the PSK comes with a lot of other trade-offs in message number of messages then third part of this discussion is security properties and properties of the application data we go to request on the next slide comes application data what request from academia to try to specify the security property of this in requirements growth better so any solution documents could be for many formerly analyzed and checked if they meet the requirement document or not then Karthik this Monday he sent list with the request requirement document contain a lot of security properties Khattak came with suggestion how they should be made more strict and clarification and some small changes first so this is taking probiotics mail so PFS against key compromised categoric against what material and we won\u0027t loss of the long term key from the initiator and their sponsor loss of the thermal key initiate to respond so bad RN g and i would say definitely the first probably not the second and the third but i don\u0027t know if you can easily "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:39",
    "text": "if you very easily can get protection against the bad oranjee sure but yeah they say this is like car thieves advertisement for it if a helmet so um one as you say we are your any sensible protocol already have um to is like super hard it basically requires having basically typically do it is with these diffie-hellman protocols where you say like it the that you listen it\u0027s not a key and therefore and they\u0027re in there for mo keys compromised that\u0027s like their environment so that\u0027s like sensible like where the static is like stored in some little box if i\u0027m what keys not but it like these environments is like the same like they\u0027re used in memory so I\u0027m not really worried about it on the I mean not worried about it like like beyond like the you know I think I\u0027m worried about it but I mean like I\u0027m not where I don\u0027t understand this a Nereo in these environments where like you lose the ephemeral key but not the static keys other ones much more likely um the bad rng on the good news is we already have a fix for that which I think would is um which is the CFR GT after hardening randomness and that totally compatible with the signature based protocols so but the good news it\u0027s not it\u0027s a compatible protocol change so I think we don\u0027t need I think we should just like I think we should stick with number one is obviously requirement number two we should nothing about um as a requirement and number three um like when we finally get around to writing the protocol it should like say why don\u0027t you just use that that\u0027s it for yeah Chris would just to expand on the the basic idea of the CFD draft is you take the long term private key of the responder in this particular case and you compute a function of it you mix that with the output from your RNG and then the security of the like your reminisce is the minimum of your bad energy or your private key so if your private key is exposed and your bad energy everything\u0027s over everything\u0027s bad but if you have better energy and you\u0027re probably key is fine it\u0027s always well so I would just take a look at that draft and it\u0027s easy to do it\u0027s compatible yeah seems like it\u0027s compatible with any solution protocol list yes it\u0027s very protocol agnostic yeah quite honestly it the first two it depends a little bit of course on how you implement these type of things in currently what I\u0027ve seen people doing more and more is to separate out the key exchange implementation from the way how you handle the the key storage and so if you can properly protect the long-term key you will already have two things in place to to do the the protection of the ephemeral key because you just make calls and then basically use the keys kind of a big keys that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing MPLS we actually separate it those out you can actually look how how this is done in our code I haven\u0027t done a survey on some of the other embedded implementations if they actually allow you to do the same or where they gloss over that issue it was a fairly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:39",
    "text": "substantial change in a way how you how we did the API is but it may be if someone has some spare cycles some researchers here in the group they could actually take a look at this it would be really interesting to to see how this is done and how actually make some recommendations to improve it like those would be practicals in in terms of what people deployed today and it just as a question when you did that work where there are any changes you wish would have been made to protocols to make that better or easier or is it all just implementation that wasn\u0027t that wasn\u0027t really anything we like we used that obviously we\u0027ve here less so we didn\u0027t had to do any changes on TLS it was just the implementation on the way how we pass around the keys and there obviously if you want to take into account not just as software use or a software storage of the key like in pure lean software handling but rather cryptographic modules then those typically use different api\u0027s and so used making the API to work with all these different designs was a little bit tedious but yeah yeah seems to be agreement here to do one not focus on two and reference the CFR G document for tree then here was a request from academia to specify more clearly their properties of application data here is suggested formally requirement for the 80 but that also this depends a little bit on how many messages the solution has if you have a typical three party protocol like Sigma I then you get the first matches is completely unprotected second message is confidentiality and integrity protecting against that passive attacker and what you can put the message tree is confidentially integrity protected and you know who the other party\u0027s this can maybe be specified more clearly acre yessir doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t sound quite right I think a g2 has confidentiality it gets the passive attacker but integrity against an active attacker because at least in Sigma I the g2 is GOI is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:39",
    "text": "vente cated a message to and therefore assuming that assuming the client is an initiator on you know got the proper GTX then there\u0027s and then he has integrity for the data that came from the server yep um other than that I believe you\u0027re correct yeah okay yeah this seems like this seems like like right otherwise yeah but basically this this is for a three for three message protocol if you take Sigma or for example then you get unprotected unprotected to tree here if you take Karthik\u0027s protocol and add something then you get unprotected to and then the three day and yeah he\u0027s in my yeah but I think yeah is the authorization request does it contain just is it kind of only at here please give me or is there please give me and here\u0027s a nonce here\u0027s some other stuff like what\u0027s what\u0027s in the authorization because I think because I\u0027m looking at this through sort of like the eyes of ours and I noticed like the whole dens the information you carry in each of those tends to be quite important from for overall security is not just a-- if you think about the authorized and that the ex doctor request it\u0027s not just or give me an access token is there\u0027s more than that yeah is that just an example how you do would send a certificate requesting security protocol I think what sixties want to do is to send the token containing the actual keys for you to use in the security a.k that correct so this is not a loss like authorization token this is just some resembling some token in in request one with actual key to use in a ki has been discussed so this is a profile of brewski that we\u0027ve been discussing and this is a profile of brewski anonymity as we\u0027ve been discussing and essentially in 81 we discussed the sending of the voucher request and getting back the router is in 82 essentially so yeah I think this needs what type of information people want to send in different messages should be discussed simplest it\u0027s completely independent of the aka but I think in in some cases you want to send the key to use in the aka in a authorization token the might also be sir so that the authorization token when "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:40",
    "text": "you use that you want to reuse some of the randomness from the a K for example to save overhead so there yeah so they um they might not be completely it\u0027s important that whatever you send in a application data does not violate the security properties of the aka so this needs to be clarified yeah that actually brings up an important point when about Petra key separation that the that uh so I mean the second message especially right you want to use different keys to and safer at the application data and and safer the contributor so I mean I think I\u0027m not sure I\u0027ll think about how to document this um this is a nice or struggle with as you remember a lot until us how write this down but um and and did you get it right because of nestea entirely but um so I think but trying to like there\u0027s a lot hidden under the under those last two polar points and so we should probably figure how to document those better yeah I think in typically what you send me messages would be protected completely independent of the aka in message too I agree it makes sense to a different key but that would probably also lead to to max which we might not want to have and then it might not be right yeah I think we\u0027re going to talk about like what kind of like CK guarantees yeah I think that\u0027s it for this discussion I don\u0027t know if there any other discussion topics that people want to have otherwise it okay we have we have like 20 minutes so I\u0027ve got the 61 object five minutes remote five minutes maybe to talk about whether we want to have inter meetings and stuff like that and so I think we have like time now to bring up other issues yeah I think I think that one thing that um I think we\u0027re gonna need to spend time on is like trying to sharpen up the sort of like frontier what\u0027s possible um I mean like the you know I mean as a little discomfort with a sort of like as small as possible I mean if he I mean a wall it is true obviously everybody costs they\u0027re like we know there were cliffs and like try and understand like you know what where those clothes are a little bit of hope because like I just think like I don\u0027t want to do like we\u0027re seeing this in quick right now is like you know he\u0027s like it\u0027s a lot of fighting about like how much screwing around to do at the very end and I sure don\u0027t want to be like it were you boss call and have like a shard of the basically someone says well like I like I can remember like you know what want yeah like you know the Chartered risky tells us oh my god we got like recycle so um I was trying to get a sense of like we\u0027re the you know like I think I think we spent a little the minister work the working group so it\u0027s great but I mean like doesn\u0027t I\u0027m trying like document week like what the requirements meeting practice I wasn\u0027t clear what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:42",
    "text": "what\u0027s the what\u0027s the action following from yeah actually I think the action is and this was my review a little bit is that we really we need to figure out how to like sharpen up the size requirements that\u0027s somewhere else is something I expressed a little bit earlier I think that I\u0027m not totally sure exactly what the form this needs to take but I feel like there is there should be some requirements in here around extensibility right clearly we need certain fourth degree of cipher agility at the very minimum meaning some other forms of extensibility but invite I\u0027ll try and think about how to put that more precisely and then send some feedback to the list but yeah glad to think about your what the authors thank you spell yeah that should be added if it\u0027s not they should be possible to add new algorithm a be new ways to authenticate may be news ways to identify credentials and and so on yeah an interesting thought experiment might be this take question that came up earlier like it might be that in an initial version of whatever or whatever okay we come up with here we don\u0027t have a baked flavor to it but it might be nice if there was sufficient extensibility in there that a Paik could be fit in later mmm I\u0027m not quite sure how to express that in like requirements language yeah no that\u0027s a good point concerning Akers comment I think right now the document does not it has a lot of discussion about the radio protocols it does not have numbers but I think there are numbers that could be put in numbers that was discussed during the both presentations for example we are born if I remember correctly there you have to make assumption what kind of transport protocols you have in and what options you have in these and so on but I think number 45 came up something like 45 maybe was 47 for a single message I think there are similar numbers for six dish if you assume five hopes which might be a good assumption you should probably discuss but there the number of bytes available for the body decreases for if you have more hopes it increases if you have fewer hopes MB IOT is more flexible then you don\u0027t have a very fixed frame size so but everybody choose save saves energy and latency and creates less lost messages so we do have a few more minutes if there are any other topics people want to bring up on the requirements document right now or seems like not from the jabber "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:50",
    "text": "yerens has John one question from both Karthik and Acker was if post quantum is a requirement is this a good time to discuss that and yeah my view and your answer would be posted to them to the list is that it should be possible to extend it to post quantum in the future I don\u0027t think the focus right now in Lake should be post Kentucky exchange yeah I mean III I agree with you I think you know we\u0027ve spent a lot of time like um you know screwing around with like like trying to reason out post quantum and like you know we\u0027re nowhere near I mean I think I mean certainly there\u0027s two questions where one is post one on key change one\u0027s post content occasion I don\u0027t think we\u0027re ready for either of them um I think this you know I think as Richard was indicating what we need use a suitable amount of sensibility so that if like if and when we want to do that work we can do great thanks John so the fish is gonna present on behalf of Michael who\u0027s gonna be answer I don\u0027t know yeah so these requirements have been brought up over and over again so I\u0027ll just go quickly I think John mentioned them already quite a few times during his presentations there shouldn\u0027t be anything controversial so there is this document in the 60s working group that specify that we call a zero touch drawing this specifies essentially in a draw enrollment solution for six dish that is the document is a profile of brueski of constraint voter and constrained voucher documents in anima and and also the ESP over coop s document in in ace we essentially here wanted to minimize the overhead what what goes over the wire during the exchange so we\u0027ve been discussing these requirements and essentially um on the first slide inside i\u0027m doesn\u0027t wish to have detail s frame overhead and this frame does that refer to the record layer or regulatory morass that michaelis I\u0027m not sure Michael did these slides I think if he refers to the message overhead of TLS but we would need to confirm with him so I\u0027m just presenting on behalf of him yeah because the ACE for example that the ACE document that you point out that\u0027s obviously intentionally designed to have ESP over co-op s and so if you don\u0027t like the TLS then maybe you then maybe Michael should have not picked ace work but yeah make sense so a couple of requirements there that being brought up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:51",
    "text": "on the list before essentially we would like to send certificates by reference rather than by value over the wire we would like the two peers in the run in the a cron to be authenticated by different types of credentials for instance someone use case that we discussed is server being identified by an RP k and the client being an identified by its ID of ID which is a certificate that it uses to enroll into an your domain yes I\u0027m not quite sure on following the second half of that second bullet so you say sir identified by our PK which is base enter client which these you Center clients you can print about requests what does that mean so it means that essentially the client needs to receive the RPK over the wire okay yeah and okay that it doesn\u0027t have it initially because it discovers this net the new net for the new domain on dynamically I see okay the RPK is carried is carried of the wire on what 75 20 or something right okay thanks so and so that means the client so so I guess then how does the client authenticate the RPK I\u0027m not sure okay this is a salient question because on because if their way if they complain authentication no I\u0027m sorry yeah obviously there is a third party involved the authorization service that certifies of this RPK so essentially in the voucher request that client sends onward to the authorization service it includes the RPK that it received okay so and then there is an exchange coming from the authorization service where the authorization service vouches for this RPK to the client right i guess but again i guess then I want to push back on this then I want to push back on this requirement because it seems to me that a better design would be for the server to send a digest I why does it why doesn\u0027t it what is that what like my point is like is like why um like is that instead of having the server send the client the RPK there\u0027s a client then asks some Oracle is it gets a one bit response back wouldn\u0027t be better to have these servers in the client identifier for the RPK and the server called the Oracle and gets the RPK back yes so much would be I mean this is a profile of brewski this is how they\u0027ve done it okay yeah okay okay okay I\u0027m just but I think it\u0027s relevant okay okay well but separately but it\u0027s like you know to put which were trying to save plates on the wire at this interface like this is like not out this like this is like you know be just burn 32r tasks right so understand the last thing that you said I think one thing to recognize is that like I don\u0027t know exactly what sort of network topology have in mind but in some of these apologies they\u0027re gonna "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:51",
    "text": "have this what this air interface which has which is extremely low bandwidth and they\u0027re gonna have I don\u0027t know how you\u0027re talking to that the server you did about your request for but if that\u0027s not over the same your interface um if it\u0027s like over a wire um then you want to move data from the urn or face onto the wire and so this is this RPK is 32 cats or so right and so um you know if as soon as that\u0027s 55 509 and so on and so if your if your your interface to the voucher server on is like faster than what you want to do is you want to how to identify or hear your server give you the RPK so you just save those ready to our tests go ahead can you go to the previous slide so this third draft in the list are you sure it\u0027s ESP and not ESD so is it encapsulated security payload or enrollment over secure transport because I\u0027m confused those acronyms refer to different things so someone done in the audience says it\u0027s it\u0027s s so that draft is incorrect that that kind of confused me what would help here is for you to say that our requirement is that that they a ke should support where the client has device certificates and the server has RP case so kind of having this high level because otherwise I was confused with just the first two slides yeah this is saying we start to start that the client has devised certificate or a to do one AR certificate and server has our PK and then we want a ke to magically give a session keys perhaps that\u0027s a easier way to frame the requirement second I\u0027m not sure we should get too much influenced by this requirement when we are designing our ake a ke but that\u0027s just my opinion okay great okay so a couple of questions in terms of the draft adoption will confirm the list do people prefer to get another revision the draft before we do that call for adoption or just go ahead and do it just go ahead and do this what people are saying great as well yeah we\u0027ve got a check and do people want to you know in terms of working on this we\u0027re gonna use github an issue tracker the issue tracker there and so on is do people have a preference for virtual interim meetings or what yes virtual in are between now and I 107 so yes that you would attend or yes as an ad you think it\u0027s a great at it no hat yes I think it\u0027s a great idea okay so any other people seem to so when I would naturally think kind of like maybe January ish but so from chapter we progressed a lot today have one in December urine and Jim "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:53",
    "text": "+1 to be Italian during January and February yeah so we\u0027ve suggestions there for December January February month and the same bar might be a base ambitious because in terms of people getting home from here and doing stuff and actually making progress I mean I think I\u0027d like to try and like open issues and get hope and then close a few easy ones hopefully and then have an interim about the things that are we\u0027re talking about would I think be what I would suggest so that would be more January than December I\u0027m seeing the room temperature here is warm so people are falling asleep or something good which is good roman deal you might I propose that we load up get we commit to load up github by early December we can chew on it maybe you start talking me January late January for the virtual yeah you\u0027re only suggesting to make a doodle see if people can attend in December yeah Roman just said there I mean you know I think there\u0027s a bit of lead time in terms getting get issues open talk to vote eliminate the easy ones so December might not be that productive yeah I mean I mean bringing you a 30 day there\u0027s no 30 a it\u0027s two weeks ok well I can tell you December is a nightmare so uh-huh I mean even now it\u0027s the 20th so we looking at the fourth we like the earliest day you do it it was very good pretty carry towards the fourth yes I\u0027m hearing and sympathetic with the idea of trying to get the getting get people working on the list and with gifts in the next month and then have a call maybe January and February feet it\u0027s yeah okay I think that brings us to the any other business I forget okay any other business in that case thank you and we see on the list thank you "
  }
]