[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "foreign good thank you yeah can you hear me now yes um you are looking and entering the meeting okay I have the impression that uh I mean the application plays me in mute after a few seconds so as soon as you don't hear me just ping me okay um the only slide set I see is um uh those one from the pub sub and sign them told me that um Daniel I proposed some slides earlier today actually oh okay see then for approval okay um so I'm not sure I can cover 30 minutes but yeah yeah still I have um let me check I probably have them on my Ericsson uh would it be okay if I share with you the the desktop uh as it works for you but if you yeah that's something they should be available on miteco for an even easier sharing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:45",
    "text": "foreign so I just approve your slides Marco okay so um no I probably have to to do something with the material maybe update yeah yeah um Logan was expected to to start the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "meeting but uh he's he has a hurricane so um I told him yeah it's fine I'm Gonna Take It um okay they're at least I don't see them in the data tracker entry yet okay yeah I see them now that's right so should I try to share them yeah I mean no no no I mean I can see them on the um even on a on the miteko so okay if it works for you I can share the PDF through miteco now it should work yeah yeah it should work so so go ahead I've just requested permission to share slides I think you need to grade it I I I I I need to Grant it okay that's done oh but I see selectable only the pub subsides never mind my screen never mind I can share my screen or can you see it now you try please Grant again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "no and that's because you need to manually import them in miteco first okay so I request to share the screen okay great okay now if you see the slides in my browser yes okay uh yeah I'll be quick it's just the status update on the ongoing work on both uh drafts in parallel revoke token notification and Oscar GM admin notification uh yeah we went through uh the the list of things to do uh two interview meetings ago I've been working on the electroscopy um on the working group GitHub uh I managed to do almost uh everything especially we thought about um adding examples uh when the cursor extension is also used I did that and I took the opportunity to collect all examples we had already uh together with the new ones and have all of them in an appendix because it started to be quite a lot of material anyway I also added the are there any other new appendix I mentioned that I had in mind about uh collecting and explaining together uh uh the the different parameters and constants that we are introducing so they don't just appear in line in the text and when I was doing that I noticed that one of those especially had um an inconsistent name compared to the other ones so I just prefer to to get things aligned uh while working on the document as a whole I also noticed um I think about the of course optional uh possibility to use a particular query parameter defined in a core document pmax it appeared in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "only two sentences and I I believe exaggerating with normative language that of course resulted in a normative reference and this parameter is not at all a vital building block for this approach is just a possible way uh to influence the authorization server in sending observed notifications like the file in a core document so I prefer to rephrase the text to relax it and to be not normative anymore which also makes it sufficient to have the core document as an informational as or an informative reference and as a side effect now the ace document does not have any normative reference anymore that are not um which should be good overall uh yeah I've also gone through a number of uh clarification and minor fixes in the document but not in critical what I have left mostly and I'm still working on that is a number of security considerations uh for which I had no note row notes and that I have to compile in in proper text for the security consideration um section um yeah I don't have any particular big issues remaining in mind So the plan is the same as uh mentioned last time having a revised version covering all of this uh before the cutoff and if no other issues or open points arise uh that version should be ready to consider for a working group last call and this is revoke token notification any question or comment on this one I hear none so I move to the next one um yeah I'm working in parallel on this one that requires a bit more work but still you can see the progress uh also on the GitHub repo when unfortunately"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the editor scope is not uh deployed correctly we still have that problem um I've completed a number of things especially adding a new section uh discussing a number of considerations about possible multiple concurrent administrators um responsible uh even if to different extent for the same Oscar group under the group manager and I managed to fix a number of things I I noticed uh for the case when when callal is used and then I have a list of ongoing steps that I'll try to take care as much as I can also before the cutoff um some of those are also security considerations because right now we have only one very little paragraph I think that there's a few things to say uh both on the uh actual operations that can be performed at the group manager as well as on on the Practical actors involved and especially the group manager and the administrators foreign this is also ongoing as mentioned in the last interview when I presented this I really want at least to start uh translating the correct sample and simple diagnostic notation using also uh but c bar and I started doing that already uh while working on the document I also noted that um it'd be good to Define one more error condition on the group manager in case it is requested to create a new group configuration or update an existing one in a way that it would result uh into something that the group manager itself doesn't support so that that requires I believe a new related error code I'm not talking about a co-op responser or code I'm talking about uh an oscore GM admin error code to be transported in the payload um of course but we have a number of other error codes already so it is just about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "following the same uh pattern about the error or the code point and recommendations for how an administrator should follow up if this error code is received uh and then a number of qualifications that I also noted would be better to um to include about possible reasons to deviate from uh recommended default parameter values if um one is not specified by the administrator and on some operations affecting multiple resources at once in principle that would require to be performed um atomically um so I expect to cover uh all that uh before the cutoff if I don't complete something it will probably be about the choral examples um then we also talked about a future document split uh yeah I don't think it will happen this time around for this cutoff but I understand that it will happen uh possibly after itf116 also based on on the discussion and the well the checking of the mailing list um thanks Daniel so I understand this will happen it's about having the current document as dock one to proceed after having removed the coral related content and having uh that a doctor as a new working group document focused on on the use of this approach um on Coral instead um by the way since that was started also the previous interim uh the plan for doctor is not at all about obsoleting or making a beast anyway of dock one I don't think even about updating it uh it's just a document rescribing how to use uh this method with coral um there was an early thought at least about a document name uh anyway uh and I think I mentioned this name and it's like here at the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "can we go for something as simple as this what do you think oh yeah yeah sure I mean that's uh I mean I just wanted to I mean the only reason for that discussion and it's not um it's just to to make it clear to everyone so so no one get upset when you when you arrive with your new document and uh sure I wanted that path to be took me down there of course and I'll raise it up again at the f-116 anyway uh okay sure and um yeah I think that that maybe you sent to the list defined as a timeline something around the working group class call of Doc one uh yeah I think we should do the split uh first yeah so that then the working group last call focuses on dock one as we want it to go ahead and would listen to that actually yeah yeah but um I I also think that it's it's um um it it will avoid any confusion if um now everyone I understand we will have that document so um when you do the split with whatever is in the coverall dock you just submit it so we we can have this adopted um and uh but if you wait a one year or six months people won't remind so no no no that way plan is to have a new version of what we have today submitted before the cutoff covering as much as I can and no documents split yet and after the ITF meeting I plan to do the split okay submit doc two and yeah if it works for you it can be um a working group document right away or I don't know if you want to go through a formal for adoption for me I I think we I think it's fine to to have it adapted um right away I mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "it's a split yeah yeah you just receive a request for just confirmation but yeah yeah I plan to do that after ATF 116. as I note in this Slide the split is not um uh super straightforward editorially because now the coral content of course is intentionally Blended in a nice way so I'll have to spend some time in taking out all the parts and make a new self-standing document but I'll do that after a while yeah sure and this is uh all I have so we are on the plan okay so that's good thank you Marco thank you um I see seek them online so I'm wondering if she is willing to to me I mean do we have any question first regarding Marco's presentation only I had if they can just uh at some point during the meeting I wanted to give a quick update about the key Google yeah sure you can I mean um sure yeah I mean um um so do we have any questions regarding Marco's presentation I don't see any any comment known I don't see anything that is blocking so um it's mostly to say we are aligned with what we mentioned and um I don't see any blocking Point nor even questions uh um Marco is expecting from from us so um so I think we're pretty on track which is good um yeah so um I see sigm and Ricker so Ricker you want to make a shorter update about the shepherd yes yes the quick update so um the actual Shepherd write-up I have that finished now so it's about some final formatting to not turn two long lines and I'll submit it should be during the day and for the actual Shepherd's review"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "that I um also almost done with again some formatting and making it a bit cleaner to point to the right sections and such but I should be able to submit that um by tomorrow or latest Wednesday okay so that's perfect um so when is the deadline for I think it's in two weeks it's in three weeks but uh oh three weeks okay yeah so that's perfect now I plan to address Rikers review before then hopefully in a few days I can revise the draft then um and that should be done for requesting publication that's nice yeah yep that was that was about it I had to to say oh we lost Daniel again yeah so thank you Ricard um I I was saying that um um as soon as it get published if you don't see a request for publication in the 24th hour uh just ping me back again and then it's going to be in Paul's hand and um and and and I hope those uh two or three documents are going to be in the rftq very soon so that's perfect now Isis yes I'm here could you hear me foreign yes okay because I don't hear Daniel's response now yeah sometime I am um for some reason every day I mean my audio is being mute but um I didn't hear the question but um uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "mean can you hear me and Marco confirmed if he could okay flights I'm happy to give a quick update okay I'm going to try that so do you see the slides now no no um should be good now yes okay uh let me give you a quick update um I've been working on the document but I haven't bumped up the version number but hoping to put a new version um by the cutoff date I asked Marco to join the authors um and um he kindly accepted because I've been picking his brain a lot about key group com as well as making use of a number of solutions from Key crypto.com Oscar so it made sense some of the updates that the document includes um some of the discussions that we had with Marco in a design meeting which looked into clarifying terminology making sure that it is clear to all the readers that this document is about a security group and not an application group and the distinction between the two is clear that the application group corresponds to that pops up group around a single topic and a topic can have subtopics so I also made an effort to go back to Pub sub document and see that our definitions of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "the terms are very well aligned to Coyote Pub sub as well we discussed a few things about how the mapping is from the security group to application group at the moment the way it's written it's kind of considers the one-to-one relationship between a security group versus an application group so a topic name is representative of the application group as well as the security group which makes things a lot simpler when you are asking for different permissions um in within a scope um and then we also considered the possibility of one application group being used by multiple security groups um so we haven't closed that option but it would probably require a good example why you might need that and also following the choir pops up document we and Michael's earliest suggestion registered a core PS GM to represent a resource for group membership and then I would have to follow um the choir pops up a little bit about how the resource Discovery regarding the group membership resources will happen um and then again following Marco's suggestion um I did support for extended format of scope registered the content format um and clarified um the KDC and how it acquires credentials for publisher clients make sure that it follows the requirement from key gripcom that the publisher clients are not just cause a keys and also differentiated between the new clients joining a versus returning clients in the case where KDC may have already a token for the returning client added more support and clarifications on join error handling which was not existing in the document and then also talked a little bit more on how to support token transfer methods"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "other than posting the oath said info and registered a exporter a sign challenge to support that token transfer during the detail as handshake next slide so there are a number of updates the document which can be seen in the GitHub or apple if you go next slide I can talk about what's to do sorry for breaking garan um majority of the things that I say is on the slide hopefully it will be covering a good summary so this is planned for cut off um and one of the things that needs to be clarified better is the client workflow especially about when the client approaches the um resource server and if it's not aware of an authorization server the optional as Discovery and then getting the token and maybe doing additional resource Discovery including a KDC Discovery then approaching KDC and getting the right keys for doing confidential communication so that workflow needs to be better described the scope format needs to be cleaned up and needs to be expanded so that we can flag when the uh to the as when the request is for a KDC or a broker scope and then other Pub sub operations at the moment we've only support publish subscribe operations in the scope format maybe other operations need to be considered added in so that will be much more clear once I kind of review the pop sub document and make sure I understand what kind of permissions may be needed in addition into the scope format and then maybe we want to do this for a future proof a reserved uh kind of place for admin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "related actions operations the most important part is the handling the join response and how the closer key returned and how the non's construction can be done we consider two options one option was base IV and sender ID provided by KDC partial IV as saying for all senders and it's set by KDC again and then option two was again base ID provided by KDC and the partial IV space divided among senders this option was the option actually the late dim discussed with Francesca and that was in the GitHub issues the option mentioned but we feel the option one might be a cleaner solution to create you know those unique nonsense for each submission um and this might be something that we discuss in the working group other things to do um group reaching this is not planned for this version because there's a lot to do to clean up to clean up in this document but for the next versions group Key Management Group key re-keying at the moment it's written as it is a default point to point routine um but maybe we need to think about a solution that incorporates the pubs up nature of the communication um and other things that needs to come up in terms of Co-op core pops up which might be flagged as necessary to add into this document I gave an example of Brokenness Pub sub mentioned in the co-op subdocument for instance and how do we support that um and the the important thing for the cutoff is the finalizing the group requirements list and not the only"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "optional possibly but the actual main requirements group requirements finalized and the documents plan for 116 116 is that we have a clean document that is the most basic pops up groupcom communication um described in this document basically and that's the overview I have for this document it does have a few versions in its um in its future and it's not ready yet okay uh Marco do you want to do you have a question because I I see you in the in the list yeah I have a few comments starting from the previous slide then of course that can continue in one more design team meeting but I have a few quick comments uh right um here on the second bullet point a core psgm um I think it's even simpler than than what uh than what is in this slide um if we follow the same speed of kiru kamoskor it's really the resource type of a resource at the KDC and so for the group membership in terms of membership to a security group and it's not involved in in other kinds of Discovery like of topic Discovery and that's covered in the core document through different resource styles for resources at the broker yes that's correct yeah right I didn't mean to say it was it's included topic Discovery now it's related to related to the security group Discovery basically okay so it doesn't involve resources of the broker okay no okay uh can you move to the next slide uh right on on the topic of the um scope format"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "um with AF um yeah an inner bullet point said other core Pub sub operations Discovery create read and remove um so on the Discovery uh part um that's also defined in the in the core document of course and that shouldn't really require any particular um access control of permission uh it's just about using a web linking directly from from the broker or through resource directory and find out the the data resources where to publish And subscribe and for a topic uh on create read remove um so I suppose this refers to um yeah creating the topic and its configuration and possibly updating it that's the administrative part of permission and the core document is covering both parts so the administrative part and the using part this Ace profile is covering only the the user part so this is about deciding if we keep focusing on the user part only and probably it's the best thing I'm happy to clarify I'm happy to clarify that way the only thing that is a little bit bothering me the difference between create and publish when a topic doesn't exist because if I read correctly the co-op pops up it might be the case that the publisher might come to a non-existent topic and then the broker may decide to create the topic and accept the publication so we might need to say a few words that that's not an acceptable um way of working for this particular um broker basically as far as I understand the direction um in core the topic configuration has to be created first before a publication"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "can happen seemed to accept publish with no topic as well so I'll clarify that but okay I'm happy actually this is this is great simplification we can remove the app operations that are admin related completely from the description and maybe clarify that this only covers just publish subscribe assuming it's only considering users we did plan another um the scope for admins as well yeah the future proof reservation is good but I think it's better off if this document focuses on authorization for for the users and then possibly a future document like Pub sub admin uh focuses on the permissions for administrators of topics uh like for for a group of school case we had one document for the users to get the key material and the documentation I think it will it will keep it clean and then yeah just to make sure that we add a line that these are the only operations supported for that reason and we're done okay that's fine uh yeah and without spending too many words uh the discovery of uh topics at the broker for users and of configuration for possible admins again at the broker um is really entirely taken care of in the core document so I don't think we should Define really anything new in that sense uh here we can really be streamlined on the authorization for users okay um but then you also mentioned somewhere in this line the discovery of the KDC oh this is the thing that we discussed yeah if you haven't met uh if you don't remember we discussed this in the design meeting um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "sorry go ahead no and I I think we should uh we should take a slightly different way than what I suggested myself a design team meeting uh that was about including this information as metadata and a topic configuration but anything about configuration should be uh precluded from uh from users it's only for admins um so a better way for a publisher of subscriber to find out the KDC Associated to a topic can be um well it can happen when discovering the topic uh the resource that the broker were to publish basically and using web linking again and again from the broker or the resource directory a link to the topic resource can go side by side with a link to the KDC and those two can be related by the Rel Target attribute and we are doing something similar also in a document about the group of scorecays so if you provide um well enough detailed link format responses for example when discovering topics you may at the same time also give an indication of the KDC to go to um so this should be defined in in this document I think but building on the topic Discovery defining the core document anyway yes okay and the the KDC Discovery uh the the workflow needs to be described that's why I've uh mentioned that the discovery I mentioned in the pub sub operations it was encompassing Beyond KDC Discovery uh this is something again we discussed in the design meeting whether um when a person gets a to you know when when a client gets a token or the person get a client gets a token and approaches"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "the broker can we assume like by default do other operations that was um that's why this slide has that information um but yeah okay we can you you you're saying that by providing enough details so you can also amortize the KDC Discovery within the topic Discovery in this document we can extend the topic Discovery via web linking in a way that it can also provide the link to the kec okay then doesn't require extra permission any extra particular operation it's just a little extension to the Discovery functionality from the core document that's that sounds good and and then one last thing on the brokerless pub sub thing uh that you also mentioned uh if you look at the um editor's copy of the core document um it seems that that part is gone um all together okay I'll post the link in the chat uh for convenience so this is the branch where Jaime is working and well you can also check the actual editor's copy but um yeah that legal section that was opening for a brokerless alternative is gone so oh that's excellent yeah that was a question mark yeah yeah that was a question mark because I was looking at the latest version of the published version of the collab core Pub sub and I had a question mark there whether you know it's going to stay or go basically um yeah okay that's fine if it's not in the edit the in the editors copy of the latest version um and that's what's going to be submitted next ITF and then there is one less thing to worry about exactly so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "I have one question um regarding the two options um for the key how you um so is it uh I mean the the the the problem I see with um option two is that um if the the IV is I mean because the IV is provided by the KDC um I mean the IV knows how many centers there are so it's fine to do it once but um over time those number might change and it might be willing to to have a longer IV or a Subspace so I'm wondering if option two makes sense or um yeah we've we we agree I think Marco also agrees so because he was suggesting option one else with more uh offices I brought both options because I thought it's worth discussing as this was the first solution I found in the GitHub issues as the initial plan and then there was a communication disconnect and I don't know how that plan changed or was improved on but we were questioning that and in Marco's review that came up as well um and we were thinking option one is a better option but we thought it would be a good thing to bring both options and say why we pick one over the other and so that it's clear to the working group basically okay yeah yeah sure and option two would also work because you you split the total partial space in advance and assign an available chunk to a new publisher but we did we did talk about running out of the space and trade-offs I think option one is better trade-offs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "than option two in different ways they both work of course option one then requires to build the actual Cipher nouns uh in the non-trivial way and I expect would consider a construction similar to to the one of our score as long as they are discussed um it's fine but um I just wanted to make sure yeah larger partial AV space practically usable by every publisher yeah okay so just before um we move on I I just want to to present you the not well I think you I mean did you see the nut well no it's still my slides but again there's an overview thank you for your performance um and joining uh me in this um but the next version is um going to be more uh focused on cleaning up um and fulfilling the requirements of key groupcom basically okay yeah so that's good um I I think it's a it's a good step and um since this draft is becoming more active it's it it's really fine um I agree that we need to to Target an inter intermediary version for um for the cutoff and then um and then update that document regularly so that it can be sent to the publication I mean we can have a publication request in the in the next few months I don't see anything that um that is blocking us from advancing I mean there is no issue being"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "raised or concerned specific concerns that we think needs more discussion so this is a this is a good point so now I think you can see the not well yes it's a little bit late but um still it has been mentioned so so we know that those discussions have are happening in the this um these rules um I just wanted to to show them because um we have to um and now um I mean I'm wondering if there are any other topics that we want to discuss yeah go around please go yeah can you hear me yeah good um sorry I was late here maybe you already talked about this I was curious about the the two meetings scheduled for uh for March here one in the week before the ITF and one at the ITF meeting have you decided or have you discussed having both or or one of them and if so which so I I can only hurt was there some problem with my audio no I think it's me but I'll just say it again are we having the meeting at the ITF 116 yeah yeah sure okay and the entry meeting the week before are we having that too or do we need"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "both I didn't tell you maybe maybe you were offline for a while or maybe I was yeah yeah yeah regularly I don't know why um he's a so I think the discussion is whether we have an interim meeting yes or no um I mean uh what do you people think um is it useful is it not useful Marco here I cannot take we try again can you hear me Daniel yeah I cannot take the March interim meeting I have a conflict that they I think I mentioned that already when the initial Poll for the interim meeting started oh yeah yeah you told me so I really have to skip that one and well after all I wasn't even assuming there was going to be one because it's the week before ATF yeah yeah sure um so who who would participate to that meeting if that meetings happen who thinks it's a bad idea um I could participate theoretically but maybe it's better to skip since there's going to be one that actually may meet in either way so I was going to comment that we are working on the update of uh enrollment over secure transport over Oscar which is an old document that has been hanging around for a while and hasn't been updated in a year so right now we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "working on updating this and I will be requesting to uh to present this during the ITF meeting I unfortunately won't be available during the week before when the interim is I believe scheduled so for me having the meeting at uh ITF would be would be great yes so um I mean is there anyone saying that we need to have the meeting because I mean just you can say it in the chat because I've received only half of what you're saying for some reason so um so I I think is Constant saying we should have the interim meeting foreign yeah it takes 10 seconds to switch on the microphone um so no I think it's generally a bad idea to have an interim in the week before the uh IHF I mean if you don't have a meeting at the ITF then that's uh um okay but um if if you do I'm not quite sure how we would just to root the work between the two meetings to make this this useful and we're not going to have any progress between two meetings right so the video is down here again yes we did resume again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "hello and we can hear your customers yeah but we cannot hear Daniel yeah indeed indeed yeah just to confirm with you that you're not a problem yeah no he's offline now he came back and maybe you shouldn't be using an Ericsson Network for this so um yeah I think we we have a consensus that we don't have a an interim meeting um any other thing that needs to be discussed okay so I think if you're hearing me I think we can adjourn the meeting and I will probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "um laughs yeah but what do you think we cannot join the meeting but then you cut in the middle there yeah so I was just saying I will have to talk to the mythical team so maybe there is an interesting bug which is what is happening now okay thank you everyone I think we can adjourn the meeting and um uh see you um next time thank you bye-bye bye foreign"
  }
]
