[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] I\u0027m actually not sure and I have no idea where where Paul is we generally we have a practice of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:15",
    "text": "swapping off meeting responsibilities this is this meeting is his so I\u0027m not quite sure where things stand and we are still Paulus okay so first order of business do we have a volunteer to take notes okay thank you anybody to do minutes this is your chance to do a solid for the IETF okay we also appear to be devoid of slides so let me see if I can at least reject this basically we\u0027re expecting this to be a fairly brief meeting paula zahn jabbers I just I just did but if she could hear from more than one of us very nice all right so basically this is the order of business for today in terms of updates there are no changes to the Charter the one thing that is notable is that one who blasts column 69-62 disclosed yesterday there were some comments on that need to be resolved before the document is sent on to the iesg but they do not appear to be serious enough to require going back into working group last call again so it looks like we\u0027ve achieved a major milestone here yay thank you for everybody who\u0027s done so much work in the use of tracker we\u0027ve got 17 open tickets no knowing the core documents gossip the gossip document is still an iesg evaluation we\u0027re waiting on the ad right up I believe Becker yeah yes okay redaction the proponents are m.i.a it appears that you know we certainly do not have anything approaching consensus to take on mid-action in general and the people who have been advocating for it have kind of gone missing so that is on hold for the you know until that situation changes a threat analysis it\u0027s still stuck i i know Deb has volunteered to revise the document and is waiting for some text from Paul in the meantime that are the authors he can\u0027t read the document without changes on CTD NSF still in the brainstorming stage we don\u0027t have a document and we don\u0027t have uh at this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "point you don\u0027t even have a proposal on what exactly needs to be logged CT binaries I think you may recall that we had a document at the last meeting that people thought the problem was interesting and appropriate for us but that the document was not a very good place to start Tiana\u0027s extension for CT question mark does anybody know what\u0027s going on with that I read I rich sauce aren\u0027t they just putting it in the OCSP extension that\u0027s what I need for this is really drops yeah it\u0027s just work okay so in it so there\u0027s no additional work being proposed here is that correct okay that\u0027s interesting because like we have support for it and Firefox and I thought chrome did too yeah I did too so yeah so that seems to be slightly mismatched the documentation and the old engineers um yeah I mean one of the things that isn\u0027t it\u0027s a future work that\u0027s been a piece of future work for several years now is a client behavior draft and we really like to get that going but it you know it would be most appropriate to have somebody from browser land pick up the pen on that sure what are you in this case just the Copart registration right and you say this is critical registration in description of how the code point-like is used maybe someone from google let\u0027s do this given that but on the client behavior that\u0027s sort of total browser policy right I know I mean yeah there\u0027s a couple of claim payment covers a couple of things I mean certainly there\u0027s documentation of this but there\u0027s also um the API question right so yeah I mean there\u0027s a bunch of stuff that would be covered Emily Stark Chrome I I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t have any contacts on this I didn\u0027t know this document existed or it\u0027s supposed to exist or something it\u0027s supposed to exist yeah I\u0027m yeah I have no context but I\u0027m happy to take this back to Google and see if we can find out what the deal is okay that\u0027d be great thank you say what yeah I don\u0027t know how I mean I didn\u0027t put together in this agenda I\u0027m not sure where this came from so yeah the situation appears to be this East 962 documented their code point mmm "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "so is okay so sounds like who I don\u0027t know pretend this agenda like I don\u0027t know is is this a separate there\u0027s a name a document for this there was a new document even exist there\u0027s no document that exists um it was I was as I said I was surprised to see this show up on the agenda and I put this agenda together and not sure where he is I mean so so the I mean for what it\u0027s worth the I think yeah I mean I mean I\u0027m not saying that the doc I\u0027m not saying that the write-up is here the right up here is like ideal but it does seem like there is a good point of tension and it is register Vienna and so probably we can live with that though I admit it\u0027s not a very that the description is like four paragraphs long and it takes up this much the document but I\u0027m not sure anything any action is really needed here yeah and I you know my recollections from since 1962 this is that it actually has been spelt out a little bit that discussion so okay so let\u0027s yeah so this is I think this discussion is moot so as the log monitoring API there somebody\u0027s yeah somebody\u0027s got some text checked into github does anybody know anything about this all righty all right um I think we\u0027re done actually you know this is sort of the state of things if you know it sounds like Emily\u0027s going to take some questions back to Google about the possibility of starting a new document on client behavior if somebody from one of the other browser vendors wants to pitch and that would be that would be helpful as well I\u0027m not volunteering for that this is this is ad hat on like when are you done when are we done well at this point like we have this one major deliverable 16 inches YouTube is that right that\u0027s so there are a couple of questions about the possibility of taking on new logging new applications the two that are on the table are DNS SEC and you know binary code distribution but we at this point we don\u0027t have credible pieces you know basis for either right so see I\u0027m you know kind of looking at that and yeah I mean so you know there has been a live discussion of a log monitoring API and a client behavior drive we don\u0027t have documents for those either we probably should have a client behavior Josh just you know on on the basis of the questions that Richard brought last year "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:24",
    "text": "yeah I mean a lot of those were closed but they were also closed with the expectation that there would be a client behavior document right so I guess I do think if we could there be a fine paper document but I also think if we could not seven working group this and doing anything so um I guess I would propose that perhaps we try to try to recruit somebody who will do that and if you do not count procore you\u0027ll do that we give up and declare defeat and thankless working group okay I mean like the other documents basically like the DNS second the wineries like absence um you showing of interests like basically they\u0027re not gonna show up so yeah no I think that is a you know it\u0027s a badge of honor to close down a working group so yeah I\u0027m not exist if there\u0027s exciting work being happening but there\u0027s just sort of like you know if we\u0027re just ever just a place over for like maybe some work on something good that\u0027s not useful right there\u0027s been a lot of we could but not a lot of yeah okay um absent anything else we\u0027re done thank you yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:25",
    "text": "you "
  }
]