[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "nice picture this room "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:22",
    "text": "so we almost ready to start the etiquette having some lost instruction on how to round the laptop okay so this is the mpls working group meeting in Montreal we had do top schedules when we started that we actually found out that we could make it through hours so from having lost the room to actually have an awful discussion we actually went to pretty squeezed agenda but during the second session growth session for only 15 minutes even make sense so one session the next session is cancelled so we have a number of changes since lost time first of all I want to actually join me and welcoming your troller back to the MPLS workgroup designer the last time you were here of slum and wasn\u0027t it yeah we have one chair Nick he\u0027s back in Yemen a vacation I know that that was allowed but landed this we have a new share peroxide please welcome Tara and since very Flavius poster secretary we also have a new secretary action with that I think we\u0027re ready to start you have the note well on the screen I say as Chris said morning meeting I\u0027m not going to read through all this but it\u0027s important that you do so please read the note well and understand what it means basically it says whatever you do here it\u0027s a contribution diet gap okay and next slide so the administrative things around here we have all your streaming so when you talk to the meeting you stand in front of the microphone them to pretty close because they are set draw the load if you are presenting that is they in crossover are use the chip stand on that or if he slips do it and when you start speaking state your name on that we have it I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:22",
    "text": "don\u0027t think we have any meet that go presentations so that should be but I mean they do meet echoes the etherpad is up and running so if you want to add anything to it you can do that at the meeting going on you find the online again then slice at that URL next like this so again the bashing this is that draft we intend to this is a status report and the that we attempt to discuss I think that the preeminent slot at the end is no doubt enteric will discuss the gang model graphs during the status report any comment okay let\u0027s go on there are blue sheets circulating fill them in and they turn them not to be shares but to Mack over here next like this so we have killer artists that be been fixing this time both of them are fairly uncomplicated the first one was to use the zero instead of a o or if it was the other way around I don\u0027t know so this is verified its editorial waiting for an update and visible I\u0027m the data tracker until that object happens the next one this is sometimes you actually make work for yourself so what happened here was that then we are Sierra to publish the draft they forgot to put the paragraphing so we made in the dark but to put the paragraph back in and that\u0027s now they\u0027re also listed as an editorial in author and also available or visible in the data correctly the Aesop\u0027s we have had two outgoing in new incoming that\u0027s actually the opposite to what usually it is the ones are that the two nations are fairly easy one is say together with other working group react to responded on any relation from I think heat that it was 15 on a work done for of TNT "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:22",
    "text": "standardization work and the other one was also question from the stereo 15 on a clarification on ambulance sharing protection fairly straightforward next document status there had been a couple of metres of hidden talent in new grads this time you suddenly have free drafts our sorry our deceased where we haven\u0027t had any new RHCs this time we had three new RFC\u0027s so thank you everyone that is involved in authoring reviewing pushing on these documents so that you got published we have documents in the policy and askew the first one was blocked because of a Miss from the mr. F is gone it\u0027s a wrong and big cluster that the RCA doesn\u0027t work in previous now and they say that somewhere before Singapore all those drove all those documents we do in to author 48 so when that happens to be prepared and actually respond quickly there we have documents with the is key they are progressing around the well I don\u0027t think there is any draw the real big gaps though we are waiting for a revised ID for the biggest protection framework I haven\u0027t seen that yet but it should be progressing we have one you there wouldn\u0027t do document and that\u0027s the special purpose labels terminology short draft should be very easy what the author that was a if you don\u0027t have any further comments hungry we request what group does called try it to me Singapore actually all of the documents we have until working you part of the data tracker it has been updated the are doing something to our doubts even though I kind of push hard on some of the others and we have two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:23",
    "text": "recently expired drafts both of them all on the agenda and that part is Buganda will be miss off iris about myself and swap still working to explain what what the issue is next thing we have new individuals rafts all of them or on on the agenda and that we have updated individual graphs I have a can\u0027t find any surprises here there is one error though because I\u0027ve been working this afternoon drop Shang MP lisanna or Ahmad multicart is no longer in the video graph to see what you\u0027ve done I accepted it just after noon and then we have an issue that was brought in yeah I have waited a bit to see what responses we got that there is a mismatch between 30 to 36 but the 33rd estate was widely implemented and 50 36 and some some implementations go through as 50 36 and some at 30 36 and that\u0027s a label for month and if certain if they cannot explicit where the unirrigated should be put in that that feel so it\u0027s we have assumed that it is say on the least significant bits but we will actually start a poll to some of the key implementers and ask what we have done and see if we have everyone doing the same thing and once we actually understand the situation out there we will actually write some text around it around what what should happen so if some of the reports on this is actually reports from at least ultimately from the the author\u0027s so if we picked up a little bit here and there if actually reminding working group document author that directly supposed to give us a short update you send you a mail before every meeting that you need to respond to that and tell you tell us what the situation is on this page that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:23",
    "text": "second draft it\u0027s also wrong it\u0027s actually not waiting for the Shepherd right after review it\u0027s actually I have that I have a sensory request for publication for this up today so should probably be somewhere else in the list and this actually affect the or more extent LED or or more extension and it should or perfect air drafts in spring and each subject they have or moderate salsa so they should be possible to progress huh okay ah go back the first one be at the directly we try to set up a meeting discussing this draft among all that some people that have been contributing to discussion on the list one of the key people Carlos is not fear so we are moving the discussion to the working group mailing list okay next the MDP made is a long-term draft still there for a long time we actually just waiting for the MIT doctor to find the word to close the working group dark hole and then go ahead and request publication and we have close to encrypt loss called for the summary fRRR z de and again on the special-purpose latest terminology draft we think is ready to for working group last call but we will wait in a couple of weeks for four comments so if you have ideas and comments please send them in ingress protection framework has one disgusts left and I totally mean today he will help fix up the horas que 287 length clarification anticipated a and the RI RSVP FRR we have comment that we need to address sr over IP I think this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:23",
    "text": "is the text here was correct so probably when we wrote it but just now it\u0027s actually in the are s \u0027edit askew so we need Shanta so then you have yang models so hello but we wanted to give a quick update on the modeling that\u0027s happening in MPLS for p group we have a couple of crafts to begin with LDP modeling ml d p and l vp for unicast and multicast the first one there is a working group last call the requests coming in from offers and we will initiate this working group last call for the second one it has undergone a yang doctor review cycle and they received comments the authors should be addressing the comments now and get back circle back to us there are two other drafts for modeling in yang as well one for MPLS face both are in the yang doctors review one we got some feedback today and we will be here the authors will be addressing via the comments from the yang doctors and we will proceed for asking Bertie group last call once we have all the comments address yeah so on the ml DP gang actually you would do the working group club sport because I\u0027m a dork or that traffic oh sure definitely yeah beauties back to you Sleeping Beauty\u0027s I think this is the third meeting we have this list I actually put it on the mpls wiki you can find it through that URL those are drafts that was sent to the working group but never progress and it\u0027s fairly unclear or most of them if people want to throw them at progress I\u0027m an art so I asked you to look at the list see if you have anything there if you have feeling the information that tell us what your your glance or if it\u0027s just you don\u0027t you won\u0027t progress it it\u0027s fine but we won\u0027t have a you away your dirty clothes in the town "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:03",
    "text": "oh good evening my name is sha da we\u0027re going to talk about the EP ofx presenting on behalf of my quarters so we on the agenda we have background and problem statement and this was presented in bangkok and we have updates from previous version in next steps so that\u0027s the background so we have EPE CID the peer nodes that peer sets it and add Sid that are getting advertised from let\u0027s say SBR one to the controller and then this EPE Sid is getting used in building SR enter and SR path across multiple ASIS or it\u0027s getting used as a bottom label for a for a SR path up to the SBR - so what we want to do so in this example let\u0027s say there\u0027s a switch between a str1 and str2 and and the link shown here is is broken so in this case we would want to do an MPLS ping and traceroute and be able to detect the broken link and the way to do it is the controller that sets up the LSP knows what the EP meaning of the EP said is whether it\u0027s a node set and what are the associated links whether it\u0027s a year set seed and what are the associated links so the controller includes that information and you know the headend can do MPLS ping and traceroute with those facts and then the facts validation will happen on ESB r1 so there are three kinds of information that we need to validate first thing is the control information that bgp LS has advertised any PE cid and it says certain information and that information has to get validated when the packet comes in the OM packet comes in that information has to match with what what has been advertised the second thing is the forwarding state has to match so spr 1 says it is sending traffic on let\u0027s say 1 link the top link between asbr 1 and 2 and then when the packet really arrives on ESP r2 it needs to validate whether the incoming interface is matching with what ESP r1 said so the way this gets advertised from ESD r1 is downstream detailed mapping TLV this is from RFC 8 0 to 9 and there is no change from that so what we are doing here is we are just defining the facts for the epe suits for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:05",
    "text": "peer nodes it sets it and adjacency said a so updates from last revision so we the last revision had peer note said with a single set of local and remote interfaces so we changed the definition and to include multiple sets of local and remote interfaces that\u0027s because the peer node state could have been advertised for a multi hop ebgp session and there may be multiple underlying links so both the links though all the multiple links have to be included as part of the factor definition so the definition has been updated for this and there was a comment from last presentation to optimize the peer set seed that has been incorporated and the security consideration section has been updated so that\u0027s the definition for the peer nodes it so we have the local a s number remote es number local BGP route ready and remote BGP route riding we also have the number of interface pairs pairs of local and multiple set multiple pairs of local and remote interface addresses and there is an address family bit to indicate whether it be 4 or v6 so Pierre said said so that is local and yes number in router ID and there are multiple sets of this remote node information and along with there are so from based on because the Pierre sets it can correspond to multiple node sets peer node set so the changes that were done for peer nodes that have also been incorporated in the set side where there are multiple number of interface pairs along with the address one so that was there is another draft with with which is very similar similar approach there are some minor differences in the definition and so we are talking to the authors so beyond saying hi we have the same draft we haven\u0027t made much progress so we thought whatever update we have we could present it this time and it probably will talk to them tomorrow and then see how we can progress and one more thing before I take questions I wasn\u0027t too sure this is supposed to go in MPLS or spring I think I forgot what the decision was Sonique news in the media tonight "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:13",
    "text": "you know you\u0027re correct one of the con orange spring cochair so yes indeed there is another draft which is similar last time it was present in the in the spring there was kind of an agreement to tomorrow so it probably needs to be sorted out before bringing spring or MPLS to improve it in him well the definition of the effect would be good to be discussing spring because this is where art is a designer and discuss now if you choose a good point in MPs fucking opera and fine with two means of drafting and please this is again the same situation we have the local draft we need to produce in somewhere that you make sure I need to make sure that the other working group actually are aware of and part of the discussion but you feel to the sort of to be nebulous one because there is a good point so it\u0027s okay for me but so definitions effect really needs to be discussed in spring because it could really be rigidity so every update I post about the so here\u0027s how I see one working group is progressing we make reports to be three meeting in that personal but discussions on technical issues goes to the quality yes going said image necessary you make presentations in both but my point my point is to to reminder that for everything which is about definition of the fact we need to discuss the change in in spring because it\u0027s easy to say today but maybe in one year from air we will have older for that that\u0027s except to Suzy witches Sam Waldron from Google which go to the picture I have one question so here let\u0027s take if the path between switch and the SBR too is broken the packet is processed on the switch correct how does it get back to the source so the switch is not visible right it\u0027s a layer 3 connection between from ASPR one to SBR 2 and we have advertiser SID which which says it\u0027s sending traffic on those two links so let\u0027s say that one is broken so on a SBR one when the packet comes in it it looks at the forwarding plane it has two links so in the downstream mapping it says I have two links and then the ecmp tracing happens for in case of tree stump no i\u0027m talking about the via corresponds ok how does it get back to the source "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:14",
    "text": "yeah so I think we have another so my question is yeah say you are knitting the the next draft to be part of the solution so this draft is basically talks only about the fact effin ition but if you see end-to-end solution you would need some way of sending the packet back so I think that we have a next presentation that talks about how that can be done okay hi this is the for Francisco can you go back to that effect definition so I have two comments comment number one is that when you have pair set you cannot this is where your node you know I the next one you can go to next so in the peer said you cannot identify the interface on which the fact needs to go so we are listing all of them and in the peer node as well there\u0027s a lot of information from a user interface and and this is the problem with with the fact because the fact definitely has started from MPLS when we have like LTP and rsvp-te now we signal routing every time the defining an incident we are finding need for new FAC which is a problem because if you look at it even the information needed here how much parameter user gonna input is way too much so I am concerned about the complexity there is involve in a solution and we need to step back from chasing defining effect for every sip type to define effect that can cover all sake type segmenting is all about simplification so this is my major comment I have a follow-up presentation to that effect but that\u0027s my major comment yeah so it\u0027s not necessary that the user has to input the local interface and remote interface in all of this because this has to get advertised by a BGP unless from the router to the controller and then there is one entity which understands what does it means and that entity can somehow get that information you know in a encoded in effect so yeah it\u0027s all about you know how you get there a solution to work but I think the problem is that you rely on controls I kind of lost the the picture here because I think I mean it in text and use the pattern right your question in an email send it to the list yeah you okay fine thank you yeah but I just one comment you relying on control pain to verify control free so that is the problem Greg necessity I\u0027m looking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:19",
    "text": "at this capture and doesn\u0027t look at there is a typo that you probably will have either four octaves or for ipv6 you will have sixteen not six okay sixteen yeah yeah okay then okay I just double check reading it right yeah it\u0027s wrong in the draft what I would suggest you is that it\u0027s probably likely that local and remote address will be the same family so somehow highlighted that it\u0027s must be one family it cannot be were called us before and remote with six yeah sure okay yeah so make it more strict and if we can go to the other side I think that in answering Sam\u0027s question you said that there is some trace route takes place is it trace route from SBR or trace route from the head end it\u0027s trace route from the head end when there is an SRT is our path constructed using those EPS it\u0027s okay in my experience trace route and the CMP is a black magic so will be very useful if you can describe how you guarantee that you explore all available paths because I understand that\u0027s one of their key technologies okay hi good evening everyone I\u0027m Mukul from juniper networks and I will be presenting in terrorists om for Assad networks on behalf of others so the agenda of my presentation will be first I will talk about the problem statement and a few RFC\u0027s previous work which we have found which is related to this problem and we will discuss what is the issues with it you know with that and our proposal how we are trying to solve it and we have a working example to explain our proposal so Intel som problem is a well known problem we have I think it has been worked in the past but here we are trying to this problem I am trying to state is is applicable more for the Assad Network so we have 2a s s s 1 and s 2 and we have a and both the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:20",
    "text": "sides we have s our path setup there is a controller which gets the BGP LS feed from is we are from both the s and that\u0027s how he knows the topology of both days and and and it can push that information to the ingress r1 and also set up LSP across yes so in this example let\u0027s say we have I mean with the help of controller there is a LSP setup from R 1 R 2 SB r 1 s p r3 r3 and r4 now when you now this a LSP is a cross s and if you try to do a om mechanism the crosses then the router on the s2 might not have the will not have the return path and hence the problem is the ping and traceroute will not work across yes so these are the two previous work which we have found there might be some drafts but at least these two RFC is the first one it talks about pings and traced out from a PSM and this is not related to interests but the problem with this draft is it is it tries to set up a return path from each node using GRE tunnels which is which is not very scalable and it is operationally extensive the second draft 77043 it talks about for the MPLS LS fees interest M and it there they have defined a new TLV eco relay node relay address stack TL v which essentially puts the IP address of the router which does the relay but the problem with this is the packet for each hop has to go up to the control plane so basically each hop we are taking the packet up to the control plane which is again not good so the proposal which we are trying to do is for the SR Network we define a reverse path using a stack of cid labels so so we define a new stack TLV reverse path label stack TL v which is a set of label stack of labels which the ingress router can put when the eco request is generated and how it knows is it could be yr the controller or it is pre known by at the head end but that is not part of this RFC but it is possible that the head end knows about the return path and that it can be put into reverse path label stack TL v and the eco request "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:21",
    "text": "reaches up to the end point this were reverse path stack TL we will essentially contain a list of SIDS which could be perfect said decency state binding sites and essentially when the router at the second is when he receives the echo request while responding back all it has to do is copy those labels from the a request to construct the echo reply so is so this solves a problem that the packet does not go to control plane at each and every hop so it\u0027s all data plane forwarding across says this is the packet format for the reverse path label stack TLB essentially the key thing over here is the number of labels which tells you the or it is order set of labels in the reverse path starting from the receiving router and then it is a set of labels so this is a working example we do have a small prototype for this thing but if you take the same LSP which we had in the first slide let\u0027s say we have set up LSP is starting from r1 and ending at R for the echo request we\u0027ll go with this set of sets which have the terminologies these are the notes it for our to sbr one is we are three and node set of p4 are for change and for this echo request the reverse path will will be the set of labels starting from our four back to r1 so in this example the reverse path year we will contain this set of labels notes it for s are for let\u0027s say if it if it has to come where the sbr for then EP set for SBR for is we are between ASPR 4 and 1 and then notes it for r1 so so r1 will just essentially take these labels and put that while responding back to the echo request so that\u0027s all I think this is my last life sister adopt it as a MPLS working document I think there was a male but wheelchair okay yeah again Greg murski City I would have to say that this is not no idea so ro mentioned their Stowe discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:22",
    "text": "of BD directed and BFD directed used to have portion of this proposal but now it\u0027s a part of individual draft in spring working group on draft near Skid Spring BFD which proposes to use explicit list of SIDS for controlling the return for PFD so what you\u0027re proposing is already being proposed okay so I appreciate your looking into this draft and welcome your comments my name is Shonda so your proposal you also use an pls thing in NPOs is OSB thing is used to bootstrap D of this session but part of the proposal is that it can communicate the list of SIDS to be used to direct PFD but at the same time it mentions that the same can be used to direct response for are there spring out ping is itself so it\u0027s already there okay so we look into that yeah Sam Waldron from Google I won\u0027t actually go back to the working scenario I\u0027m I\u0027m okay but when things fail right let\u0027s take in the topology diagram if the the ping request fails for whatever whatever reason between ASB r1 and ASB are two or three Oh in that case is about three right right so how what exactly the return path label stack is going to use because you\u0027re populating with in this case whatever that cyd you\u0027re saying that this is what you\u0027re going to use right but it means nothing on that intermediate no but that all you\u0027re talking about the pink so pink if so that use case will be for the traceroute not for the ping the ping fails that once it is there is some breakage in that link we do not do a ping does not try to find out where the problem is that is traced off and the ping packet when it when the LSP is broken right it is going to be handled on that the device where it gets popped is it right because it is generating the ping I don\u0027t it is broken it is not expecting any response from the node at the intermediate node from where it might be broken okay I think there is a fundamental yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:28",
    "text": "I just want to comment on Greg a comment is it\u0027s two different things is here the return leave a stack is used for onm purpose it has no problem but using for B a B is a problem because you have SPF D so I it\u0027s a completely different thing I think if confusing recommend a very confusing it thank you thank you how do I do when I\u0027m a family farm economy pal now I will pardon the data craft instead after the houses because we how the cowboy Pablo lithographed defined that year incarceration for empiricism the performance measurements with the ethernet mac him i said to the other two realities little SL requires a wanker repeat of rotate packet to measure packet loss also the danger christ so when both himself 842 package tool relatively entry to alpha beta tricycle Oh how\u0027s the this message requires the follow identification alpha the measure that indicates ago flow this is a slight turn talks about how to method ax pequeños and delay when syncope white light the treasure to the murder total traffic of elope need to be happy she into overtime for packet loss measurement coloring the measured critical flow and flip the page Carla periodically you know the report is a countless of each block to the EMSL controller for peg the delay measurement my anomaly my packet within each block each note report is the time steps are for possession each mark - hi kiddo the EMS our controller the this inhaler for metal with alpha the fellow pays the p.m. encapsulation with the alternator McHugh Meza to my floor ided in the Kindle app owner followed by wine fluoride aleppo Green Cross for follow itlp t beat as bait and so on the novel or idealized arm here\u0027s the fellow identification a smelting unit unique and allocated by the EMS al controller based on the measure the architect in states such as ours PL p w there is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:29",
    "text": "one-to-one mapping between flow IT and follow no no threat the follow IP indicator level may appear main times in a lab stake with me threat to the floor I team a present which means the most of my floor I team a present again auntie Elsa labor let\u0027s take our potato Stefanik Avenue domina falafel oh and murder two packet loss ebay Tibbets SEO slit owner method on telling with the no trace receive the packet with that he said to one we may see need to you about the recent reception type to the EMS al controller as it is the bottom of the snake indicator here Isamu key features a little myself the first man is a year and I am where to turn are we being is based on impediments which is the more accurate this message about shocked by how come here madam enter the translator notes kind how to our work out based on floor ID whether to turn our waking is use the unified on method to measure the packet loss outlet daily they use the floor RT indicator plus Rho RT you know the current state packets are interval called time then we powder tool the EMS al control a parametric with their which is a wiring family the EMS our controller new calculated packet loss Delhi and printer variation in helped by half hour into ain\u0027t about no I will talk about how to in company encapsulate took up our EP captures the floor RT before animal ministers the MS our controller need Napoleon the unica flow ie to measure to protect it states that I teach in a network animate in the healing grass and that note the in Christ knows he inserts the floor idea the key indicator light boat alongside the way the floor I peel a pop at the same time the u.s. the u.s. note said that our PT bitch and froggy values the translated to know to look up look out for the floor ID level with high off of the floor ID indicator and the Preston Alfred may to the collected information to the EMS our controller which includes the colors out routes are for packet loss and cam steps the egress note helps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:30",
    "text": "the nephron for the ideal above with the alongside with a fellow ID level into to the Rafael\u0027s and I\u0027ll speak sorry I\u0027ll be out the lever stack this draft the answer is a most different layout of the floor I T in the draft the first way is when the this method applied to the art speaking at the young keelson and work the floor idea for the last variety indicator and a plurality our anti-isil about we applied to the rapini MP else in the network the floor IP indicator and floor RT at the needs of the whipping labor when use the wind is measured applied at all posts Alt key and Joaquin in amperes in the work they are needed to different floor ID values that ADA to see through idea planet to our key and variety flow idea parent working share the same we\u0027re in space okay yeah next steps as the thermo new wheels and commies realize this drafts always our commies and analyze as the phone working group for publishing okay I promise yeah direct from juniper I had your drop and I sent you some comments on the year reading cooked mature if you saw them but basically to general comments there is a year another way that the working group is working on is called synonymous flow labels that can achieve this working yeah I\u0027m not sure if it they can a look at it or this approach you think is better than or gives an advantage the other of this approach will introduce two labels in your stack if flow identifier labeled is special illegal yeah and then the flow ID and that one doesn\u0027t mean those so I encourage you to take a look at that and see if it fits your need or not second comment if you go back a couple of slides to where you have the encoding of the floor ID in this time yeah yeah yeah so basically your read of redefining the label and the encoding of label and what bits to mean different things you\u0027re setting certain bits to be for measurement of loss and delay in other things this is not usual that you encode certain bits in the label to mean certain things name pls haven\u0027t seen that so well it is part of the legal stack right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:32",
    "text": "yeah hi yuge what I\u0027m saying is that it\u0027s not the label but this part of the labels directly we have some discopath result [Music] we are late so very quick coming don\u0027t want to steal time from yourself you myself yeah it\u0027s very good comment Rocky\u0027s from Cisco have you looked at the IOM data fields because there could be one option of using IOM data field that allows you to do some of these things already sorry because these graph I\u0027m not that often in the draft maybe yeah also a kind situation not to say take it offline meet after the meeting and actually discuss it and see if you can reach a common view and report to the list good afternoon everyone my name is lacus Gandhi and I\u0027m presenting the draft on Iowa m4 SR SR mpls on behalf of all the authors and contributors so the agenda is look at the requirements and scope the procedures and the next steps so requirements is to transport the IOM data fields reaches our MPLS and cap so basically carrying the way i\u0027m information like time stamps by the data traffic to the scope is using the data fields already defined by i ppm working group and n2n I am we can look at the hop-by-hop as well in future if there is interest so the end cap looks like basically there is an IOM indicator label and and the IOM data feels that\u0027s defined in the draft for my ppm so the end cap node will insert the indicator label and data field and the d cap node will take a copy of the data packet and forward the data packet so the copy will be processed for there for the way I am and it will also remove the end cap so there are few methods that can be used for indicator label allocation and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:33",
    "text": "can use some feedback from the working group so one approach could be that we use an extended special purpose label so we are located label maybe say 1819 there can be a network programming label that\u0027s allocated by a controller for this and controller would go and provision all the end cap and d-cap notes or there is signaling where the cap node would signal it to them to the end cap node now there is some implication on passing here does it night does it make mean that you can\u0027t have a network without the centralized controller either a controller provision seat or is done by a CLI for example yeah so there is some implication on housing because we are changing the MPLS header and that there are some transit nodes that may use the MPLS header all the labels for guessing so now it may include IOM label there are some notes that may look for the well-known protocol type or IP hashing so now there is some implication there as well so there is definitely some more work and discuss and required on the hashing part for this draft so next so next steps as mentioned there is some work required for a cmp hashing we can definitely get good feedback from the working group some feedback on the hop-by-hop i ôm as well we welcome your comments and suggestions and we are seeking working of adoption for destructor thanks if you go 3 slide back one more so and the second approach is it global label in the whole network yeah yeah ingress and egress that\u0027s significant yeah it will be easier to just have one label let\u0027s say label you know 500 or so that means this this this purpose and everybody understands what 500 means in the network then it becomes a special miss kitty there might be a problem that characteristic to MPLS and the Saran POS is that you don\u0027t know where this came from so how you differentiate the source how "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:35",
    "text": "you attribute if you especially if you use the same label advertised by the egress for all the possible encapsulate errs how do you know where the source of this and where the statistics that repeater Soha it knows today right with the second let\u0027s take it to the list Thanks okay I\u0027m presenting on behalf of my colleague and I\u0027m one of the coffers of this draft so path segments Sid has been adopted recently as a working group document and this draft raises and will start discussion and proposed solution for using the path segments as interworking between a certain POS and M POS domains so the path segment is defined in this segment draft which is a working group draft for the spring working group and it identifies the path and allocated by their egress not only identify this for the purpose of OM and performance monitoring but also it may be used for correlating for inter domain and in bi-directional in the domain path correlation so in one of the possible scenarios that we have multiple domains from their access to the core network and need to do and to end om and with their incremental deployment for example of Sorrento LS we might have a combination of a Sorrento s domains and IP MPLS domains and then we considering their scenarios how this can be organized whether we\u0027re considering two models one is a stitching and then its encapsulation so basically they\u0027re tunnel for the domain in case of stitching then we have for each domain path SID which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:39",
    "text": "we refer as an iPad and then they can be by the border node correlated from one domain to another domain and then thus providing end and correlation for the nesting or tunneling model there exist and end path and then each node might have and what\u0027s called as an S path and for their nesting domain or the main which tunnels from s are MPLS it\u0027s absolutely a path so the end-to-end path identifier is transparent so it\u0027s only ingress and egress are dealing with it so this is a start of this work the reward of be worked on and there will be new updates we appreciate comments and your interest and working together I hope I save some time already in the spring draft right it talks about path segments for stitching the multiple domains and stuff King can you send the reference to this draft because well again in my understanding of this draft it does not go into the detail specifics it goes that it\u0027s possible so let\u0027s take it of one who are we one question by using path segment for stitching instead of using binding signal okay this is good question I\u0027ll I\u0027ll have to think about it but thank you for question yeah I think the brackets against a path segment is the the traffic that\u0027s coming in and binding CD is the traffic that\u0027s gonna leave so you need to stitch the bindings path segmented binding City but both of them are used to torque from juniper so the path segment is go to stitch well the path segment basically there needs to be a correlation from one five seven again it\u0027s in the stitching model there need to be correlation between path segment in one segment to the pass segment in the neighbor down stream segment by the boundary nodes yes only by the boundary nodes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:47",
    "text": "so low Anderson I\u0027m going to talk about a set of registers actually a subset of the register under the heading LS beeping traceroute register in the Ayana and it\u0027s basically all the TLD and subtly reduces plus the message type and return codes and one more I have had as long as I\u0027ve been averaging being shared I have had a problem here by understanding the rationale between behind how it was done so let me try to explain so they have a background it started out at 43 79 a43 17 I defined the structure 1829 updated 43 79 and changed some of the registers but not all and all the changes that was in 80 29 did not get into the actually I Anna radius I said there is a disc appearances between what the current RFC says and what actually in the radiuses 80 time to wake up I\u0027m some other continent somewhere the the 8126 it\u0027s more or less contemporary with the 80 29 but it\u0027s rather different there are subtle difference that actually affect the registers and when we did the last working group RC 81-66 we actually took what is in 80 29 and actually put that into the register to get the model to work from there are two groups of radius they are taking the simpler one to actually show much my points 43 79 it\u0027s a very technical solid document and it says for the Ayana registers that it needs to values from the specific pacification required procedure needs to be done by an experimental error see this is kind of an oxymoron it\u0027s not wrong but it\u0027s kind of complicating things more than necessary so this is what it looks like ah okay so updating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:48",
    "text": "things - uploading things to the ITF actually got rid of mine my my building so if you look at a registry for example message type there is one part the standard action no problem at all it works just fine there is another one that says specification required and says that it\u0027s only experimental RSC\u0027s so a specification required is almost any document with you with any stretch of your mind can call a specification and it actually brings in the requirement for designated experts to support Ayana to allocate them if we look at the experimental or a C\u0027s but there are only four types of documents it sirtf IAB iesg an independent no other document so why use something that says we can take documents an entire world to actually describe what we\u0027re doing for type of ITF documents so 80 29 changes the experimental RSC in 44 43 79 to RC but basically this didn\u0027t ever get into the IANA registry but basically it it has the same problem we have a lot of any we can do any IT FRC but it\u0027s the same problem it\u0027s much fewer documents but no one actually indicated in the specification required sorry about the animations so we have one more thing here saying specification requirement RC needed in note is actually saying the same thing as using the registration policy the RC required Stuart give it to Korea to he came late so we can without any problem changes to a RAC required saying the same thing as a t29 says here are the list of possible registration procedures and I actually come to the conclusion we should use them we should not try to invent our own so I proposed going from specification "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:50",
    "text": "required to RC required an alternative would be to get high def review that was actually exclude the quite number of documents but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s necessary so the update we have made is actually aligned the concept with 8126 we added code point for experimental use actually I\u0027ve heard from people that actually were part of co-authoring a43 79 but when use the experimental orosi needed you allocate a experimental code point but that\u0027s not true you act you it\u0027s a general code point that anyone can use it\u0027s just it\u0027s specified by an experimental RSC and then we are listing all the registration procedures even if they don\u0027t result in any allocations even if they prohibit allocations so this is what the register would look like with what I\u0027ve been talking about so we have the standard standards actions we have the RFC required we have experimental use and we have private use the last one is properly then the private use I don\u0027t feel team member hood yeah I think that\u0027s all no okay yeah we request for a working group to review this and actually comment on it I think you should just last call it now I\u0027m kidding I you can\u0027t you can\u0027t do it working group adoption Paul if you want but you can\u0027t do a last call fortunately I didn\u0027t say my name so it\u0027s okay so QED compiler I was probably on something when I put experimental RC required you\u0027re completely right there should be RFC specify so I mean in so specification required it should be an RFC which is what I wanted I don\u0027t know why\u0027s that experimental so I received a part is I think the right thing and then the others are other is right I mean they haven\u0027t changed I think for the private use usually back in the day the when I was actually thinking about these things I would say that you need a vendor code pint before you actually but but yeah yeah but here I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s space for that but no go to the way you have the final listing of the I think yeah yeah for this one so I think this is what you should be doing so thank you so you know to say that the Keerthi was actually one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:50",
    "text": "of the cores about one of the leading authors of a43 79 so yeah for offer consideration in some occasions and it\u0027s been kind of popular to make 0 and 255 as a reserved value so not use them ah but no now we\u0027re talking about something else those saw the registration procedures when the list the assignments then we list 0 as resorbed so that\u0027s another part of the table and if further questions okay thank you so I can study direction my name is off early I\u0027m going to present the draft on behalf of my co-authors basically the draft is asking question for us we have in s our various segments and every time we define a new segment type we have to come back to onn and define a new frack type for validating their segments so this is the desktop here but it actually requires software upgrade for the nodes that are deploying the network and rather than one end being working in lockstep with any forwarding definition that is deployed it started like behind like epe for example is deployed but there\u0027s no fax there\u0027s no NN and it causes a lot of problems and when we when a new fact type is is is defined and it requires the software upgrade it also had implication on the usability from the user point of view and now explore a bit more I had that question when sure they were presenting the draft and is some scalability on you so this is some of the fact that are in the discussion and you can the main point here is just sheer amount of information that is required by the user or by the system to input in order for us to do a ping to remote said to have that thing set up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:50",
    "text": "and it\u0027s a lot of information and same thing is is that I mean let\u0027s say we define prefix said fact for prefix it but it doesn\u0027t work for flex algo so it makes a stink one step back and then say that can we simplify this what is that we are trying to achieve what is the data model or for anis our data plane and can we make it consistent definition consistent with the data model of the SR data plane so that it works once for all for all the fact that exist today and they\u0027re coming future so that\u0027s the problem statement to simplify the process the second routing is all about simplification of network operation and we have a problem here we cannot hide that problem the other thing is also that if you look at enforce I can remove that that when you have clear node said you do not know the target ahead of time because let\u0027s say if you go between the node 2 and then 4 and node 3 are peers said here notes said so they share the said the decision whether the message will end up with more number 4 or no number 3 depends on load balance again node 2 and node number 1 who\u0027s the node asking for ping does not know that decision so it cannot fill in the information about the egress we\u0027re supposed to receive the packet all it knows where this it is cities a row ties by note to the seat value is X but I don\u0027t know how node 2 is going to load balance that said and where my target is going to end up for this thing it will all depends on mu 2 behavior not what I can control same thing when I have a pair Regency between node 2 and node 3 at node 1 when Isis and I\u0027m pinging a Jensen said I don\u0027t know which link would be selected so I cannot select that and we have in our LC we have method that okay for pereira Jensi just put 0 so I mean we have X to get around it but we don\u0027t have a solution in the other drug the shader presented we said let\u0027s send all the possible there could be many many and then and then hope one of them would be there is it increased complexity and it makes when I\u0027m really like behind so solution is really look at the SR get a plane the SR data plane simple you have a segment idea and that segment idealized by somebody this is the common denominator it did it doesn\u0027t depend on the seat type what\u0027s the type is in all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:50",
    "text": "it does not depend on say step back and then simplify the facts definition that works for all sit type now and that may come in future as well since this is build on the data model this will work for sure now here\u0027s the definition of the sit again yes our CID and the C designer for some simplification for some use cases like bindings it we also include optional LSP endpoint which is if I know who should be responding I can put it that information but I\u0027m not going to go this busy slide but there is an exercise that is done whether this definition works for all sit types that we have defined or we have to define future or it doesn\u0027t work the answer is yes I mean you can review it I can come back to it if there are more if there are more time remaining but I\u0027ll go and illustrate a few example first so in this example we have prefix SID now here the prefix said which is for flux I\u0027ll go 0 and flexible 128 current definition of prefix said does not work for any alga the flex will go 0 and there they will attempt to modify the fact but it goes through the same problem so how it will be done is basically mode 1 was just simply say I want to ping a label Edward ties binode r8 this is the only information that is carried now we pick here agency said because agency it is difficult it is for prefix F so when it comes to no date no let will say yes I am the assignor for this said and yes this level match my table and then response goes back to the originator now we take this example and try to address the PAL region see which is not addressed by the RLC today the better agency case cannot be verified if in today because it saves agency is zero zero so here we have ninety seven seventy eight which is a pair of agency between link 1 and Link two between node 7 and mode 8 in in this example the fact would be choosen again this is agency they advertise by note 7 ok and this agency value is 93 78 so this is what is the bare minimum information that is required when the packet goes to note eighth note 8 and it can optionally contain the end point but end point is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:52",
    "text": "not mandatory but packet comes to note eighth note 8 can then verify that this is not a local this is a rise by 7 so see this 7 is my 3 neighbor and it verifies that it is this matching on the interface I receive this packet on with the pair region see there is a row ties by that node so in this case 93 78 so it can easily verify from his low local table that information so it works for parallel see it will work for the EPE cases as well and all now this is peer note said it works the same way because the common denominator is node 7 is eric izing and i jen Z which is 93 78 now packet comes to node 7 and it can either go to node 8 or 88 either way the receiver will say that the arrow tiser is not me it is let me check if it maelstrom labor does it allocated this agency did I receive packet on the right interface or not and then it will respond so it doesn\u0027t matter how seven is doing is load balancing the packet may end up at node eight and it would respond if it right interface choosen packet may end up no deity yet it will respond if his right interface is choose him and if his end of the wrong interface wrong neighbor then it the response will be negative as well so all the validation would be done and it works so in a nutshell we are trying to simplify the segment routing FAQ by defining fact which is goes back to the common denominator of the data model in segment outing it will do it\u0027s done for ease of operation because then user don\u0027t have to input all different parameters needed and we saw the complexity of all the FAQ and it is defined such a way that I mean it would be consistent with any future segments that would be defined and 4-iron registry I will skip this this was a question lower from you on the mailing list it\u0027s consistent with with whatever you decide but it is really an effect type of the TLB one sixteen or twenty one we already discussed this i\u0027m karis a spring working group in the other discussion that will discuss also in amperes in spring but the fact definition in more especially spring but we\u0027ll let chair decide how they would like to proceed with that they would like to ask for feedback there is some discussion that going on with sure though we try to connect and pass the prophets but well not able to and then we have meeting tomorrow that we will discuss more on this one observation is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:53",
    "text": "here as a matter of simple and simplifying things i think we are trying to pack lot of information in one thing which I do not agree and I will tell you the example so for example can you go back to the slide where you have note 1 2 \u0026 3 so this one no the biggest one the very big me yeah don\u0027t go back at the very beginning when you had parallel sits enough yeah this one so so you here you claim that note 1 will not know which interface chorus so I am talking more let\u0027s say BGP egrets adjacency seeds so today in BGP addition since it when it is advertised in the BBC pls update we along with our label we also advertise the if\u0027 index of the router 2 from where the packet will go out and there is always also if already a field which tells out where what is the if\u0027 index on which node 3 will receive the packet so that way note 1 or knows by a controller or something it can know given a level what is the if\u0027 index from which the packet will go out from 2 and what interface 3 will receive and there is already other droughts which is which are there to add all the information listed represented regarding given a node all the like if you talk about the set set what are the interfaces local road as well as remote node which will be known to the node 1 can answer then yeah what I said is that node 1 does not know how node 2 would load balanced any given pink packet based on the hashing that is putting in the pink packet whether it will land on node 4 or node 3 it would not know okay so the only way to do is to pack the entire list of possible peer node in fact and this is bringing complexity for both ingress and egress how you expect the operator to input this data I mean it\u0027s just going out of proportion and it\u0027s too complex for user to use it be world will for simplicity we are asking not more complexity I mean think of it I mean ICMP you don\u0027t need any of this I mean people are operating I could be six network for it for ages and and you don\u0027t get into these delicious comment I had was Greg norske a city and I would like to use this example that what you mentioned ecmp yes it simply is challenging but I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:53",
    "text": "see how you can guarantee that with your method york\u0027s for all possible downstream from two paths that they simple because when the message is received by receive note let\u0027s see if i\u0027m not for I\u0027m gonna check who\u0027s the advertiser of this said if not me okay that means the room it\u0027s a remove it is an agency see that\u0027s type okay it\u0027s the guy with a tie thing is my upstream neighbor yes what is the value if you did he wrote I this value for this sit on the interfere I receive the packet on and that\u0027s all I have to verify it will work regardless how you explore or downs all paths from to so how you can reach from two to four and all explore all three links from two to three because that\u0027s what important and in LSP thing if you look at this map so two will be your responder and to where we listen list you what is downstream and then you can use this information to reach explicitly of each possible path so I think that yes there might be some value on doing downstream responding on behalf of advertising but it must be complemented by advertiser responding and very buying the back yeah but when to respond it exactly know how is glued load balance so to knows information so we are not talking they will end to a wrong guy and we cannot do you need to explain in your proposal is how you guarantee that their head and the one can control the information in the packet that you construct so it reaches all possible edges that that\u0027s that\u0027s an alternate problem that\u0027s not the problem we\u0027re trying to solve that\u0027s the problem exporting the tree ok and then you can change the load balance a parameter and you can achieve this but but the point your problem the point is that when to respond back to the tie with the da snap DD map it can include the exert interface information because it knows how it\u0027s going to do the load so the comment that I have is the problem that you talked about in the beginning of your slides that we have these EPS it\u0027s implemented but we don\u0027t have om facts implemented for those that\u0027s a real problem but there is different way for solving it right so when we define a new set we also define the fact for it we make it mandatory right so that that\u0027s another way of solving that problem so that those all those upgrade problems and other things you talked about that won\u0027t wouldn\u0027t exist if we had done it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:54",
    "text": "this way but we didn\u0027t do it that way and we are in the situation now at least going forward we can make sure you know any a new cell that comes in comes along with no effect for that it\u0027s not only one in fact but it\u0027s also the information that is needed this one think about this information and there are operators sitting here they can say that a case like human come online and out of my order characters not possible but that\u0027s not necessary you know this information is it has been advertised in the network and there\u0027s one guy who knows this information one node in the network who has all this information and that should be capable of preparing the FAQ which is totally incrementation right well to achieve what to achieve what so you can verify control plane and you get data from the control plane to verify the control plane so what do we achieve by putting all this complexity in the system we do not achieve anything synchronization verification and and with this from what with what you\u0027re proposing you\u0027re completely taking away the control you cannot get it unless you get the information from the user and from a source which is not control you cannot verify something by getting information from the very source very source that you are trying to verify ok if you see MPLS ping and traceroute the RSVP or LDP the Heron prepares the fact and it sends it and head and how does it learn it it\u0027s a control plane learning right so that that\u0027s what we are trying to propose I\u0027m pinging this tunnel and it knows what is the fact of that tunnel it doesn\u0027t ask a PCE or some other control entity it is the one that has installed that tunnel it is the one that installed the tunnel ID is the one that selected in effect setting of the tunnel so whoever sets of the tunnel right will have that information in case of our sweep it was the head end in case of SR it\u0027s the controller so Weller sets up the tunnel should have all the information yeah but whatever information that has there learnt through bgp LS and this is a control identity you you take that as a master but you get it from control plane you\u0027re trying to verify it I mean that\u0027s an N and n the complexity here as well I mean there is a new something called as nil FAQ in RFC 8 0 to 9 which is pretty much doing the same thing what you\u0027re proposing a little differently yeah but there is no validation in nil FAC this brings validation at least there is a that can be a forwarding to invalidation you could send a video and then you verify the DD "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:56",
    "text": "empty in your next router you know yeah but if you want to use some generic om variation I feel that already exists and maybe you can take it off one we can take it offline but I mean there is no validation that in fact does it is there in the RFC Mukul from juniper networks one comment for B for BGP ep6 those seats are special in the way that if you talk about three routers one two and three those labels are allocated at node 2 node 4 node 3 and node 3 has no knowledge about that label ok so the flow chart which you have right that will fail I know you do not can you go and dig it offline the EP nodes is level is allocated at node 2 and the LSP ends right at node 2 so node 3 has no knowledge of that level so when you do a ping from the Headlee that LSP has to terminate at 2 if it is if it\u0027s a prefix it yes it would right so it will end EPC it\u0027s a little bit different and here the validation has to be done or for the outgoing interface not the incoming interface most of thing what you have talked about labeled corresponding to the incoming interface but if it\u0027s that if you were different we can take it offline bit words all right from Jennifer I did review your draft gave you comments on the list yeah in general I you know I\u0027m okay with generalizing the effect but not dropping information that this allow us to do control table data play validation so I\u0027m ok with abstraction but with abstraction you lose data that you need to validate so if you don\u0027t if you can find a sweet spot in the middle but do you have the information and you\u0027re generalizing a monkey but there is a couple of other comments also that I gave yesterday that comment look if my main thing is that this is too much information for any user to give if you use control plane we are fooling ourselves so why bring that complexity okay that\u0027s my comment we can take it off fly on a controller to tell me the information that is the packet coming on the right missus so it is complex your approaches know if I have an IEP I have local database that I see this guy I wrote I this this said yes if I receive on the right interface yes and in anyway yeah so let\u0027s take it offline "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "but but I disagree we yeah I think it works any it being benefit of the industry will bring simplification we would not have to keep chasing this stack after fact after fact it is a problem thank you I prefer that we actually let people talk to point before they actually respond and not interrupting talking actually about those Safari Sandra they do the same thing this time it was useful but think about in the future we let people talk the people make that point before you try to correct them so tarik has done us a service he actually introduced a font that actually disappears when we put it up on the IDF so if I remember correctly as it said the synonymous flow label drafts and it\u0027s gone there now I\u0027ll go back and I\u0027m not going to use that slide we have three different drafts that the main author Stewart told me are stuck and I try to figure out how and I try to write down what was the problem and Stewart says you got it almost right so I kind of stepping back and let Stewart try to explain what the issue is and where we should go from here I would prefer if we get a simple solution right let me explain where this is that\u0027s in pretty good shape I need to read it through again but it doesn\u0027t need much work it could go through to to last call the solution draft pretty good shape I need to read it through it could go to to last call except for one thing by the way they do I forgot to refresh them I\u0027ll refresh them when I get back to my office at home next week and I can got the sources again so which is a tank filled which is you as was requested by a group of implementers in order to simplify the internals of their operating system that is that is caught up by the control draft now several "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:06",
    "text": "corporate lives that go I stood at the front of one of these meetings and introduced this control graft very simple scheme that largely George and I put together a lot of work from George and it doesn\u0027t require us to touch any of the other control planes so when I stood up here people said no no no Stuart we need an rsvp-te solution we need an LDP solution presumably we nee now need a solution for the iGPS and I have not had time or the funding or anything to do this and I\u0027ve been requesting other people help me here so I can do one of two things three things I suppose we could feel the tank filled in here as reserved and take a risk that we got the size right or we could control plane that I originally proposed and if people want another control plane eventually they can write it or until someone with enough time and bandwidth to write the the control plane document that describes all of the mpls control planes but though they come forward and they write it but it\u0027s stalled because this working group said we want something much more complicated and I haven\u0027t got the time to write it we had a controller with would that replace the one in the middle as the one doing allocations for anonymous all right so so so this is the this design here actually has a lot of Merit right because it doesn\u0027t require you to touch the real control planes it sits underneath the real control planes and yes if the OEM system says it wants to do this operation then a label is transfer is sort of silently inserted to replace it so that actually has a lot of Merit as a system and no one I don\u0027t and then people I don\u0027t think we don\u0027t know look at the minutes people didn\u0027t object to that they just said we want a lot more we want our sleepy and we won ODB and etc and someone wants to write them I would be happy I\u0027ve been struggling with this for some time and what I\u0027m trying to understand is it that way of going forward with something very similar to what you have here simple solution but actually putting the hooks in to actually allow anyone that wants to do very much more than want to do that and how the battle so remember there\u0027s one thing the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:06",
    "text": "tag field that I put in is in the data plane it\u0027s transmitted with every packet and so I\u0027m always very nervous about doing anything in the data plane unless it\u0027s perfect because it\u0027s very expensive to change its agent Farrell I have two questions but I reserve the right for a third question the first question is just to check that I\u0027m not miss reading something all three of these drafts are currently expired yes yes certain my mistake I will refresh them no that\u0027s fine that\u0027s what I wondered by from fun second question is to the specific point of the control plane why don\u0027t we just document what people have implemented I\u0027m not sure that it I think whether anyone\u0027s actually implemented it either right and that and then I will exercise my right to the third question why are we debating last column documents that people haven\u0027t implemented because people tell me they want an RFC but I\u0027m fine with whatever we decide to do so that left us with another question but I actually okay actually we have been taking these two documents through the working group and people say wouldn\u0027t obsess they want to progress on so that\u0027s why I\u0027m pushing for a solution that we actually make them RFC\u0027s if there are suggestions that while this is not implemented it will never be implemented so why should we bother if that\u0027s the but I do hear people who say I would like to have the RF seeker and I would like to build it sorry Ryan Hoffman from Telus I haven\u0027t been following your work but it would seem an applicable action to this would be a mirroring SID that on hop-by-hop way I gave a secondary action to produce a copy of that frame for diagnostic purposes that\u0027s kind of what it does yeah I would think operators would be quite interested so I am find this you know what there\u0027s on a package of work we wanted it when I worked several employees ago several people have said they want it it\u0027s just they want a more sophisticated control plane or finding someone to write it I misunderstood you sorry anyone but it\u0027s smarter than I am anyone have an idea what you should do my take is that we should actually go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:07",
    "text": "with the simple solution we have but make sure that it has a possibility to be extended you if you want it all right I\u0027ll take a look at the bits that are embedded in the control plane and make sure that in the data plane and make sure that they\u0027re either probably adequate or we can change them if we need to without mass destruction George you know say something about this yes I haven\u0027t looked at the draft in several years indeed I am retired anomaly anyway so uh do we have a requesting process ID in the initial exchange because if we did then you know somebody who wants it to be requested through RSVP or LDP or BGP could make build an implication that says okay ours he\u0027s going to request this thing and then the request comes back to RSVP it\u0027s just this just yeah population maybe I should talk to you offline and take you out a retirement for a few minutes just tell me what you want me to do that which was for the minutes okay that sounds like it would work for me so this is the end of the meeting in Montcoal next time is Singapore couple of months out so have a good week here safe trip home safe if the Singapore and see you all there thank you ah we have one blue sheet you have one more where is that where is the second no one leaves room in a second between "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:14",
    "text": "[Applause] "
  }
]