[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "welcome to Singapore yeah um just go back one there we go um anyway you probably have all seen the note well before but I\u0027ll put it up here for just a second since it is Monday right yeah yeah okay blue sheets are going around no they\u0027re not blue sheets will be going around momentarily I believe we have a Elliott taking notes and and somebody do an Jabbar the I guess the next thing would be working group documents so who do we have up first yeah maybe Yuri do you want to just get up and say a few things about aka or are you ready for that that might be the quickest so I don\u0027t actually have any slide so I can put about the 54:48 this and then the PFS document both of its are working route documents the the base is about to be sent I see I believe and there\u0027s been a small update of that and that is through Joe\u0027s review identified that there\u0027s a few references that have received in new RFC or those revisions have been obsoleted or the RCS have been obsoleted and so I just replaced them with new ones so this was for the NAI RFC for Ike v2 RFC I think the IANA considerations are C so that\u0027s a simple thing I don\u0027t have any other open issues at this time yeah I\u0027m pretty sure that we\u0027ve this is document is well ready to go forward so I\u0027ll hit the button after this meeting mmm and then on the aka "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "side there were two updates recently one for the deadlines and then you know more proper updates today few hours ago and there\u0027s no huge change but it included a few things which I am listing here from my notes the first thing is that we changed the document to do an update it has an update header at the top and says update 54:48 or rather the the draft that will at some point get an RFC number because we are extending it noting that and then I changed the wording around what we say about this document and it\u0027s optionality it\u0027s optional but now it also says it\u0027s use is recommended basically based on you know better security properties and then there were some somewhat unclear references to the the curve 255 19 and how different numbers are generated so there was reference to can\u0027t remember that OC numbers of hand but but there\u0027s the the RFC that actually defines the curve and then this RFC that uses it for IP to and actually deleted the ike v2 reference entirely from that and just refer to the actual curve definition RFC and simplified some AKA and simcard terminology and made some other editorial changes so I believe those are hopefully largely uncontroversial things we did identify when Jen and I were discussing we did identify one remaining issue that we didn\u0027t quite know how to deal with so so this draft defines one algorithm the curve 255 19 to do things and what it does is that it carries this in in one attribute that defines like we\u0027re going to do this particular extension and then there\u0027s an attribute or for this algorithm this entire style of key generation and now the question is is it sufficient to have one algorithm must be already from day one have to maybe maybe not I\u0027d like to hear opinions and secondly how do we handle the registration of this number so so now it\u0027s kind of like everything\u0027s bundled together if you do this thing then there\u0027s one number that refers to this particular style of key generation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "and and this particular algorithm you could also separate them but then it\u0027d be more attributes and John had also suggested that Mina maybe would be possible to refer to some some other registry of algorithms of this this nature that\u0027s a possibility as well although I was looking at some of the existing registers and their numbers bases were kind of funny that they were not sort of neatly positive small integral numbers but it was a cosy registry that was a little bit funny in that sense that he googles and negative numbers and so on but I guess the main question is do we need something extra in terms of additional algorithms from day one and if so is the current structure of F attribute sufficient or not then you take a stab at both of those the first is by referring the question about multiple algorithms over to you know two more more knowledgeable people who are understanding of what the state of standardization of the various curves are because particularly at the nist level because if you have another standardized curve that i know i know they\u0027re coming along but i don\u0027t know where where they where they land it seems to me having a second having a another go to one is is a useful way to handle failover in in case of a crisis that\u0027s just you know one view of it at least the second point about having multiple registries is does having an entry in the registry what does it imply in terms of implementation if it implies nothing in terms of implementation then overloading sounds fine if it implies something about if it implies something about an implementation in terms of yeah you you have to be able to man have to be able to support it is it an empty eye is it an option then then overloading is bad yeah that\u0027s a good point but I think there\u0027s a separation between like the requirement level that even if we just write things in in our document we\u0027ll have to say and even if we have two or three algorithms we will have to say that this one\u0027s mandatory and these other ones are optional or all of them are around Natori so that decision has to happen there\u0027s a separate thing about do we actually reuse somebody else\u0027s number or not you\u0027re not song so I think it would be good not to to specify make the document more general and to support a set of algorithm anon it\u0027s correct to have a state mandatory to implement tree DPP when discussing Sookie encryption three people decided to standardize both curve two five five one nine and P 256 there\u0027s also has been in the past the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "general wish for treaty people to have now they did not choose that for Sookie but in the there\u0027s been a wish to have stronger algorithm a able to for government requirements government wanting to use celery systems I think curve because p-38 for would also be good to and maybe in a few traits will be curved for for eight but I think that would be very good no yes to support them for as mousses I think code to for among nine as mandatory to implement everything else optional but it would be good if the document could just the best thing would be if we could take the coastal register or the TLS register and just refer to that and say look here is how to to use any of these that already and rise also for this I don\u0027t there\u0027s complications how do we transfer them is there any TLS IPSec courses specifically and how do we transfer the identifiers but these are still for analysis perfect that would be in the best that would be the best option if it can be sold practically so I like the idea that we could have one mandatory to implement the current one and then add one or two more and sounds like you have good candidates in mind so so that\u0027s great we can we can put that in I can talk to you offline and the reuse of the register is still troubling me a little bit because it seems to me that there\u0027s when we add algorithm is always some specification needed that like use it this way and it\u0027s not just the numbers that that is in the registry so you actually have to maybe you specify also something and yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s a question of whether we can tests it doesn\u0027t magically add to get added to my implementation just because there\u0027s an entry in somebody\u0027s register value yeah I think it\u0027s buts easier to create your own register and use them because then then you also you know our control of your registry so you under end up in if you\u0027re using somebody else\u0027s register at they say no no we don\u0027t want to have that you know we don\u0027t care about that algorithm and they don\u0027t allow you to put something in there and then you want to we want to and because they add oh they are add stuff there that it\u0027s not usable for you because they say oh you have used is hash based you know to its own 103 you know megabytes office you know this public key oh it\u0027s no problem in our our call protocol it might the problem is your yes zones point was like I mean I agree with you that that it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "probably lower cost for us to do our own thing but that Jones argument I think was more like lifetime cost of this it\u0027s initially easier but is it cheaper in the long run if somebody else does does some amount of work there\u0027s that that\u0027s the trade-off okay so this is Elliott again short term long term okay short term clearly I think I\u0027m coming down on your side long term this is something that should be referred back to the IAB because it the there are so many different forms of encryption units in so many different places and so many different registries if you go through all the Registry\u0027s the stuff repeats itself again and again and again and again and again and so it would be nice if we had a clearer way in the ietf to do that but in order to do that it means that we can\u0027t have a lot of customization going on within the individual uses and that refers us back to John\u0027s work right in the TLS 1/3 document how much Stan how much customization has to go on in TLS one thie to adapt for ETLs tea etc etc etc that\u0027s the long-term issue yeah and your reference to IAB there this I am ember doesn\u0027t know what the answer is at least but maybe there\u0027s some other IAB members that do the round number all right so it sounds like there\u0027s there\u0027s some more work to do here in terms of just getting you know and a couple more algorithms in there and just figuring out what the mechanism will be thank you all right next TLS one three so this is a presentation of using TLS with using ETLs with TLS 103 it\u0027s in version 7 next slide No that was too fast there so there\u0027s been two updates since the last IDF based on oh thanks based on the post working group last call comments changes from 5 to 6 is based on support in current Els implementation especially OpenSSL so OpenSSL does not support sending the empty string as application data even if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:10",
    "text": "it\u0027s allowed by the oil sea so to fix this the epls rod was changed to sending a bomb byte of zeros now it was a big tariff occasions that the server must the client must send single byte but the server must accept everything quite standard then there is yeah another changed also based on open TLS is that up until s does not allow the server to send early data in the server hello which is allowed according to the RFC but not implemented in open SSL so we updated Roth to also allow sending the commit message in a separate message that\u0027s and then between 0 6 \u0026 0 7 was a review by Jim mostly editorial and clarifications the commitment message is now called commitment message everywhere there are some privacy considerations on padding and listing that TLS 103 has padding and recommend its use then there is additional references to the TLS 103 or C on security considerations and clarifications and there is a reference to the now working group adopted dropped ITF emu so about certificate used an informal reference it does not depend on that next slide the only remaining issue that has been debated on the mailing list most working group last call it\u0027s where did he allow ETLs 103 with PSK and if yesterday to answer how to allow that so they\u0027re starting by a comment by two months ha that EPA EPS K does not provide any identity protection and does not provide perfect forward secrecy and he suggested to allow PSK in eap-tls damn there was some discussion that EAP password provides perfect forward secrecy but a password is not really suitable for IOT devices so I think that\u0027s we end our UT use cases or where people has been on the list has been wanting to use PS k authentication last lately on the ITF list I think most of the comments have been positive to doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:11",
    "text": "this has been wish to use this in IOT use it in T and so so but if we should do that and the question is should it be should this PS k use the same method number and should it be defined in the same document on the first question I would say yes I don\u0027t think it helped having it the same in different number the second I think a new document would be the preferred I don\u0027t think we should wait for this and I think we need time to discuss any issues here yeah yeah I mean important thing to understand with this is that EAP TLS is used in very high security installations where additional modes are not just a bad idea they are forbidden okay so if you add this stuff into the RFC will get it banned it will not only not get implemented it will be forbidden to be implemented so don\u0027t start messing with this and adding it like a zillion additional authentication modes do it separately because you\u0027re talking about extremely high security installations which will not allow PS case and other stuff and adding a zillion modes which have never been implemented and never tested is is an attack on on on national security it\u0027s not this isn\u0027t like an useful thing to do it\u0027s very negative and we can we\u0027re going to end up for bidding this RFC from ever being implemented if you do that so Bernard this Elliot the reason that this whole conversation came up was that we\u0027re we\u0027re working out actual operational flows that we need for IOT right and for fallen boarding and so that we see the value in using TLS PSK it\u0027s defined right so the question is why can\u0027t we use a mode that already exists another code point for it that\u0027s fine but if if somebody\u0027s the point is it was forbidden in the original drafts it was forbidden for a reason it was because it there was there were security proofs that were required to get it deployed those proofs are been validated by what you\u0027re adding here okay so so people wanted to do very specific things and only those things and and only those things were allowed for those particular installations there were very high security certificate based things want to do something else just get another code point do it there don\u0027t add all of these all of this additional stuff which will and that it\u0027ll invalidate all the security proofs that are there you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "cause a ton of problems and because of that you will have to be banned so this stuff I mean you\u0027re just going places that you just don\u0027t go there just get another code point and you know do it separately just so people who are people who had negotiate this particular code point know exactly what they\u0027re getting that also implies is that any sort of new definition within a clientele that the tls people divine means it can\u0027t be re-employed here without without further being standardized well point in where in which in which show okay do everyone just so the document currently says that external PSK is forbidden so my suggestion would be we keep that and discuss PSK in additional draft then people are free to implement that if they want to the other alternative is to simply add the code point right and discuss it in this draft so don\u0027t we don\u0027t have to constantly revisit I\u0027m sorry so we don\u0027t have to constantly revisit ETLs again again mohit no hat so as author I think it\u0027s it\u0027s non-trivial to just say yup es case are allowed and we are done with it as you as we have seen from the discussion on the list there is all these questions about what identities to use whether PS case using epls with PS case should we allow resumption tickets and resumption PS case so it\u0027s not a done deal personally I\u0027m fan of small modular documents I would favor so I agree with Myrna that probably having a different method number makes sense anyways or type code and then having a separate document and figure out the issues as we kind of implement this because currently TLS PSK at least is not implemented in in the open-source WPA supplicant so as we learn along the implementation we will probably need to make make changes and there\u0027s no point holding on to the TLS spec until that own forces confirm authentication piece kids are fine with any TLS it\u0027s just the X T external off Pierce case need to be split out sorry a presumption PS kazar find extra are fine in TLS 103 those are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:11",
    "text": "fine that\u0027s absolutely fine okay it\u0027s just the external piece case need to be split out fine okay yeah seems to be so CS any is to use a different code point no objection to that it seems still a little bit discussion whether it should be in this document will not okay so let\u0027s just just want to check the room is anybody opposed to using a separate foot code point for a pls PSK okay so I think that\u0027s part that\u0027s a good direction to go forward with the next question would be whether do you use the same document or a different document we can take you can let\u0027s take a hum here this is something I\u0027m pretty sure we\u0027ll have to take to the list first question will ask is if we will use the if we should cover EP SK in the same document and the next question will be if we should you do TLS PSK and a different document so hum if you think we should do it in the same document if you think we should do it in a different document [Music] pretty pretty close so I think well we\u0027ll have to have some discussion on the list but Elliot yeah so there\u0027s a reason why I think we should do it now deal with it now because Alan and I and a couple of others have gone through all the effort to sort through these issues already on list and we we\u0027ve done all we\u0027ve done a lot of the work we\u0027re coming close to closure on it and so to spin up another document to have to do it has to causes two problems the first of all it\u0027s a lot of work to spin up a document for this the second issue is that I think about it from my reader standpoint which is okay great now I have to essentially I have to come reconcile two documents to figure out how I\u0027m going to do my implementation and I think that\u0027s actually more complex from even having a single document oh and I\u0027ll give one reason why I think it could possibly be a separate document and that is we will need some guidance from Matias working group and pasta dinner after this one two three to give some implementation guidance on differentiating between presumption and authenticating PS case and getting that guides from TLS might hold up this document yeah own freedom okay not I mean we can I think that we that should be brought up in the TLS working group I don\u0027t know if we if you have you guys done that I\u0027m not sure if you\u0027ll get the guidance you want but if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:11",
    "text": "we should be bringing that up if you you know you can post an errata or spring it up on the list so I agree with the one also I don\u0027t want to publish an expect which doesn\u0027t have implementation so if you are going to wait until the TLS PSK implementation has move forward in WPA supplicant this we would basically hold on to the TLS document as well which is more or less ready to be shipped so that\u0027s another reason why I want to do it separately so that we can have some time to implement and learn from that it\u0027s one thing to say yeah we have figured out all the issues in the draft but I\u0027m pretty sure when we actually sit down to implement there will be some some questions that that remain to be answered okay were there any comments on jabber it\u0027s okay all right it\u0027s so I think we\u0027ll continue discussion on the list of both resolving the issues with PSK mode like the identity issues I think are primarily the issues and then also work through this separation of the documents or doing it at one document yeah second bullet went by it should survey allow authentication with both certificates and external beers case this is just a draft in TLS right now how far it has progressed but probably a later question I not clear that that is even forbidden in the current epls relationship between identity and I when using external PS case there there has been quite a lot of discussion even suggestion in the on the list as yes gender seems to be a greater poem that when using external PSK you should also provide a realm that can be used as an anonymous nigh and then discussion I think no clear answer it should be distinguished external PSK from resumption PS case John yeah on the point relating to providing an anonymous nai with with PS k so Alan and I went around on this couple times the issue we have to be careful about is you can\u0027t always use that anonymous nai you have to or it\u0027s or I\u0027ll simply break frederick federation i\u0027m you have to be somewhat circumspect as to how you use the anonymous nai so for enrollment purposes maybe you need to do something along those lines if you\u0027re talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:11",
    "text": "about t p-- for instance but you can\u0027t if you\u0027re already enrolled and you want and you want to essentially use the nai to route on then which is not an unreasonable thing to do we do it but if that\u0027s the pretty massive use of eep at this point okay I just use an anonymous nao and this actually impacts eat new it back steep and a few others too yeah actually I think to the current text in the EPL s103 document says that anonymous nie is you must support recommended to use must use privacy friendly identifier I think that would apply also for choice you can still do Federation and routing with anonymous nigh as long as the realm is correct so if you have ever used at your home there is a field where you you put the anonymous knife as long as you put the correct domain part in the realm or in deny your authentication request will get routed to the correct server side I don\u0027t I think there was an incorrect statement to say that you can\u0027t have anonymous nice because you need Federation and routing sorry sorry what I meant to say you know he\u0027s right well we\u0027re there\u0027s a separate discussion and I mix them up there\u0027s a separate discussion going on about when to use a standard realm identifier and that\u0027s where things can break Federation that\u0027s and so you\u0027re right you\u0027re absolutely right you can use anonymous any fourth bullet is to distinguish between external PSK and resumption PSK and officially and be any guidance I think the it might be hard to control both of these external peers case you might have control of might also come from some other source you might want to reduce existing identities in the organization and derive identities from from that the internal resumption peers case are typically decided by the TLS application so the EAP implementation might or might not have an influence on that depending on how much they want to reuse or me mess with a TLS code but I think these are both of these things are things that should be discussed but I don\u0027t think we can end up in any must look like this it\u0027s more like guidance no our Dan Harkins already done with this slide after yeah so you mentioned the CFR G is working on a pig selection process so if we do separate things and have T let\u0027s 1.3 as one document and PSK is a different document why don\u0027t you want to wait for the PSK one and just to do a peg because it\u0027s probably a heavy and not very iot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:13",
    "text": "friendly for small devices I are you gonna do it diffie-hellman in the PS k yes then it\u0027s not bene I mean it\u0027s like a diffie-hellman and a half to do okay yeah a balance pay right you could do something that\u0027s considerably more than a diffie-hellman and a half but I mean I I think would behoove this group to wait a little bit to do the right thing because even with doing it diffie-hellman it\u0027s still susceptible to a offline dictionary attack after an active attack so I think using a pig would probably be a really good idea yeah I think if you use if you use password with the PSK brochure it\u0027s weak I think passwords MPs case or some sometimes people misuse it but otherwise it\u0027s different use cases you have PSK in IOT where you have some so you have some distribution system of these PS case and that\u0027s secure them when you have human involves setting things up then you have passwords yeah forgive me I was about to come at the same thing a PS k is PS k businesses say it\u0027s appreciate key it\u0027s not password yeah it\u0027s a strong long entropy and in the IOT environment it actually might be that in for lots of the other environments it isn\u0027t so that\u0027s why I think that there is still a use for especially in IOT environment for EAP a PPS K in that case because it might be even even if it\u0027s a little bit only foster it still might be enough there I think we should all disabuse ourselves to the notion that you know the guidance we recommend in in the security considerations of an RSC is how it ends up getting used and saying well PSK is a PSK and on a password and therefore people will use PSK with PSK eat a big long giant strings and not not with passwords because we know that they\u0027re not going to do that people use the tools that they have and they sometimes use them wrong so if we come up with tools that are misuse resistant then it doesn\u0027t matter if they use it right or wrong because it\u0027s still gonna be strong and that that\u0027s the point we can\u0027t prove to idiots I mean if they use make me a tasty code as their password it doesn\u0027t matter if our if using pay core PSK if the part if the password is same for everybody I\u0027d known by that you know everybody so so I mean it\u0027s nobody follows or of any of anything what\u0027s right we are you know losing anyway if they use weak passwords one letter passwords it really doesn\u0027t matter whether you are using fake or PSK alright ok let\u0027s let\u0027s not make arguments from an absurd position you know the absurdity of somebody using a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:14",
    "text": "one a one letter password you know is is not not as a serious argument so what ok so we have a little little a little more discussion to be had on the PSK topic but I think if we decide to have the PSK in a separate dropped and I think the the EPL s103 draft is ready to proceed I think there\u0027s still a question on identity still we need to make sure that that\u0027s clear and there\u0027s no ambiguity and in there even with certificates so I just we want to make sure we verify that what questions that so how you know what what goes in the identity field I mean so there seems like there\u0027s still confusion and Elliott was bringing up there may need to be a specific identity format so in general the document does not really specify I think the NAI so I think it needs work I don\u0027t have the specific right here so but let\u0027s it may be fine but we need to make sure that it\u0027s fine okay can we I am you only see the atom in four PS km for certificate extensions I don\u0027t know if there is something specific for each LS in that case we should make sure to very concretely take that discussion on the list yeah okay next yeah so this is about certificate handling and I have serious slides on this this has been no comments since the last time and no updates if I interpret positively the draft is done and ready to proceed so I would see as the working group last call if any at least that forces people to review just has anybody reviewed the latest draft I mean I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s changed at all but say well we\u0027ll begin our working group last call sometime after this meeting how can you put yourself in the queue you\u0027re up sir "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:23",
    "text": "coming through okay yes excellent okay so on this is just a summary my thoughts on identity so as you\u0027re saying earlier the the current epls document is a little thin on the use of na eyes and when and where so if you go through go to the next slide there was some discussion I had sent a long email to the list which I couldn\u0027t find in there in the list archives there\u0027s the short summary is that we should I think we should really recommend using the anonymous any eyes everywhere clearly people should be allowed to do other things if they want but then it won\u0027t be compatible with roaming which is a very very common use case so if you go to the next slide there\u0027s some additional discussions so this is sort of the summary of which identities are where you have the username which is used in triple-a routing the eep respond slash identity and then the PSK identity or certificate common name which is commonly used in TLS they\u0027re often the same they don\u0027t have to be I think we can agree that the eep identity and the username have to be identical on their requirements in the various Earth\u0027s needs to copy the EEP identity into the user name field so if we go to the next slide common practice is that the EP identity is derived from the common name for certificates a lot of you eyes also allow people to enter an explicit outer username for P TLS or R or T TLS with TLS 1.2 SOF identities exactly the common name because there\u0027s the certificates they\u0027re usually public for TLS 1.3 key identity should be anonymized so we can say that generally instead of having the user configured two different things on we could just say the comment the EP identity is derived from the common name by using the realm portion so it\u0027s routable and maintains user privacy so next slide so for PSK identities whether or not we allow ETLs use PSK for pre provisioned PSK identities we can recommend using "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:26",
    "text": "the NAI form when we know that works or if there\u0027s a need for identities which do not match the NIE requirements we can just say people use whatever they want for the PS key identity and then separately use the NAI for the eep identity right so the idea here is it doesn\u0027t really matter what the PST identity is we know that the anonymous Nai you always works for routing I\u0027m super go to the next slide and resumption the eep application doesn\u0027t necessarily control the derivation of the PST identity for a resumption so it\u0027s safest to assume that it\u0027s just it\u0027s opaque blob which is not utf-8 and not an nai and therefore cannot be used for the EEP so again we\u0027re left with and nonnamous nai which then allows the assumption to be routable and decouples routing from the PSG identity so we can use different identities for every resumption which gives us some level of privacy even though the MAC address is usually they\u0027re always the same and then it doesn\u0027t affect read ability of the packet some of my earlier comments were that the resumption session should use the same EEP identity as the original authentication so if you\u0027re using an actual username for the original TLS authentication it\u0027s probably a good idea to use an actual username for the resumption simply for consistency if you use the anonymous nai everywhere then you should just use it everywhere so next slide so yeah we assume that generally medication will be routed if it\u0027s not being routed and identities don\u0027t really matter and people can do whatever they want but in general it\u0027s good practice and people pretty much always do this nowadays even if the requests aren\u0027t routable they just use the anonymous na eyes everywhere and I guess the the my recommendation haven\u0027t looked into this is is I think the EEP TLS draft should be clearer as to which nai it\u0027s so which identity it\u0027s recommending and why and I think it should recommend the anonymous nai everywhere and I think going forward a litte a little bit the TLS 1.34 other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:27",
    "text": "you types documents would probably also do the same thing that\u0027s it for these slides if we go to the next one I think nope I think that\u0027s it questions comments Alan it\u0027s Elliott I really mostly agree with pretty much everything you said I had a question about handling normal TLS certs if you go back to like that that slide not PSK but just the the other other form of a is your presumption that there is something that approximates a realm within the cert generally is the common name and people use that but you know based on other discussions on the list we probably should have a separate nai realm o ID in the certificate too and then that can be used for the anonymous outer identity that\u0027s a whole effort discussion as to where that nai which which field of the cert that nai comes from is a separate discussion with I for now I\u0027m just waving my hands and going it\u0027s in there somewhere if the search says it\u0027s for example.com we probably want to use example.com in the identity as an anonymous realm so the reason I mention it is that there are some implications here relating to I Triple E 8o 2.1 AR which has no such form as I as I understand it and so I like your answer earlier which is just use anonymous na eyes but what if that has other implications we should explore them I don\u0027t think it has other anonymous implications this is really the text on this slide is really more just background as to what people mostly use now in the common on derivation the common practice and after going through this and sort of running down the checklist of all the different possibilities everything comes out with use the anonymous nei so I think that should be the recommendation in depend why it\u0027s worth having an explanation but it\u0027s worth also just having the recommendation of you know just use the anonymous nai everywhere always no matter what yeah you\u0027re not sorry you say that it should be a recommendation but the EPL s103 draught will already have a recommendation it says that anonymous knives are mandatory to support and recommended to use so I don\u0027t I don\u0027t really see concretely what you are when we think for this certificate use case for the biggest Kay use case you have local other I\u0027m speaking as an implementer I I guess the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "text on identities is buried inside of the resumption section so it\u0027s not clear that for normal authentication you should use the anonymous nai I had some tax I sent to the list I think I also open a github request I think it would help to have a separate section in the document saying identities which you can then discuss hey some certificates have these identity some don\u0027t for resumption in any case for this list of reasons here\u0027s why for ETLs the eep identity should be the anonymous nai realm because i guess for me it\u0027s it\u0027s not clear if that text is buried in the resumption section it\u0027s not clear to me as an implement or reading this that this field which is separate from resumption should have a particular value for particular reasons sure so mobile mic resistant which is that you know at in some systems i have seen the radius server make different suggestions of different methods for different people right so what that means is that there can be more than one i done more than one anonymous in AI used by our an organization say they decide i security users are going to all be forced to use the apt less and lower security users use something else teep whatever and it\u0027s worth thinking that the the AP identity right is not method specific it\u0027s for any method so we\u0027re really talking about here kind of upgrading privacy for really everything not really specific to EB TLS and I guess my point is that when you\u0027re asked for an identity you don\u0027t necessarily know what method you\u0027re going to use so saying this is this is the identity you should use for EB atilla\u0027s those are not necessarily correlated with each other oh okay yeah I mean to a certain extent yes but I think we still need to have some recommendation for the implementers of ETLs as to when they\u0027re trying to negotiate TLS they need to have a have an initial starting point for the identity and that\u0027s where the recommendation of this anonymous nei comes from okay I think that\u0027s it then okay thanks I think we\u0027ll have some more discussion on that Allen I guess it\u0027s it\u0027s still you so can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:27",
    "text": "you join the queue yeah okay I don\u0027t have a lot to add on this document I think there\u0027s just one slide if we go to the next one I think the documents okay did get a response from Microsoft supporting this approach for peope it\u0027s not clear what to do with fast the text in the document is sort of my initial stab in the dark but it would be good to actually have some review of that for fast and maybe something from implementers saying that this works and there\u0027s interoperable but I don\u0027t think anyone\u0027s really done much of anything with with fast and TLS 1.3 I think based on discussion on the list the T pop dates probably belong here and then I think the document should be published close in time to the ETLs document I know the the response from Microsoft was that they wouldn\u0027t touch anything including epls until they could rev all the other TLS types - or TLS based EGH types I know that e TLS is implemented for TLS 1.3 is implemented in WPA supplicant I don\u0027t think there\u0027s been any progress on P port or TTLs they\u0027re the same thing in my implementation mostly because we\u0027re not really sure what to do so if we can get some additional feedback here and I think we can get the various open source people to update everything and implement everything and then we know it works I think we just need consensus from the working group that yes this is okay and we should we should be moving forward with this questions so are you are you in touch with folks who can help with teep information because I think that\u0027s been a common open issues that we have some errata still open and there\u0027s been some discussion but not quite enough and I know folks are talking about implementations want to make sure that we have the right folks involved so that we can get the document updated in a reasonable amount of time so the word out to implementers yeah it\u0027s basically what\u0027s what\u0027s been on the mailing list I know Microsoft was saying that recently they have I believe they have teep in recent previews but yeah there\u0027s been no sort of coordinated effort from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:28",
    "text": "implementers to get in a room and go this is what we\u0027ve done let\u0027s check that it works it\u0027s mainly just discussions on the mailing list going I think this is what we should do so I think I\u0027ll trying to reach out to people behind the scenes and try and get some no on-the-record statements but that might take a while in the meantime I think the documents mostly okay my inclination is that given that peep and TTLs are more widely used than teep and easier to update if there\u0027s any concern of a teep that causes delays of this document I would prefer just to drop fast and teep and just have a reference of you know this is what we think might work but we\u0027re not really sure and then read it later so that we can we can rev TLS and teep so int TLS and peep all at the same time which which are extremely widely used I don\u0027t see any discussion on that okay so I think we\u0027ll bring this to lists we probably sure to have a discussion if if it would help to get either having a virtual interim where we get implementers out together in the same room or the same virtual room if that would help to kind of work through some issues I think that would Thanks Tomas yes can you hear me yes okay I\u0027ll give an overview of e noob and next slide please so I\u0027ll start with a quick overview of the protocol then the draft status and then at the end I have a couple of technical issues that may be of interest one is how we use deny and then about roaming okay so what problem does a be noob into soul well as we know this currently no out of mana indication method for EAP and the need for this method has now been identified in the new charter for the working group and ap "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:30",
    "text": "noob is one solution for that problem next slide and as a quick overview of the protocol it\u0027s an EAP method for user assisted out-of-band authentication for example the user could scan a dynamic QR code or endeth tag or read a blinking light with a mobile phone to deliver the out-of-band message between the peer and the server and this is a bootstrapping method so that when the out of band or the dictation takes place the device is also registered at the triple-a and then it could that registration will later be used for a fast reload indication of the pre of the register devices so that no more user interaction or other bad communication is needed next slide here is the architecture picture also as a reminder the main trick here is to do in band communication over EAP between the nudie bar and then the triple a server and do most of the communication in band / EAP cryptographic handshake and then have one user assist the elder and methods to authenticate that in band key exchange and this idea has now been copied by some other specific agents and maybe I should just to advertise and remind that this origin is the idea is originates from mojits PhD thesis ok next slide the state of the draft is such that we have worked a few years on it and on the implementations and modeling verification and the current draft number is seven next slide there have been no major updates to this version the main thing is to update the sample messages so that they are up-to-date with the specification text and also have been tested with the implementation next slide so here is a summary of the draft status I think it\u0027s pretty mature now we have two implementations there is the implementation for WPA supplicant and hostapd done at other university and then kentucky implementation mainly at University of Murcia in Spain and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:32",
    "text": "we have model the protocol with formal modeling and verification tools on one hand the protocol state machines and in our service resistance properties and then the security protocol and authentication and I think once the new charter updated Charter is confirmed this would be ready for a working group adoption and maybe if we can agree on that then that can be confirmed on the mailing list after the rich artery is complete so this was the update on the protocol on the specific case and then I still have a few slides about the kind of the core take more technical stuff so next slide please and you can still go one more and first about how we use the NA so because the device initially here is not registered with the Triple A it doesn\u0027t have an IE and for that reason we use this generic nigh and especially the generic real which is currently EAB dual of MIT but I understand that it\u0027s better to use reserver dot ARPA domain for this purpose and why we need this generic realme that is used for routing the EAB noob or EAP requests from the new unregistered peers to the correct triple-a server and normally we would expect the network administrators to select a server for that network and that handles this out-of-band authentication an interaction with the user and route the radius for the this generic realm to that specialized server and then immediately in the initial exchange in the ap noob the server signs appear ID and real to the pier and after that those will be used for routing the requests if there is no roaming then they can continue to use the generic real man but the usually I guess it would be good to assign realme for roaming Persis so this is how we have solved this night problem with the unregistered devices in the beginning and then next slide actually you can go one more if I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:32",
    "text": "use the picture other than the text so I want to explain a roaming question or a problem how we handle roaming and then what still hasn\u0027t been done about it okay so here is the first simple roaming scenario we register the device at home and I use here any room between a couple of universities as the example next slide and when PAP newb is used for authenticating and registering the device it initially uses this generic real man ID and then the local Triple A or a specialized radio server for the AV noob will handle the CLP loop authentication and next slide as part of that process in the initial exchange the Triple A assigns a peer ID and real OMA to the device next slide and later the same device if it moves to different parts of the network it can use that assigned na for roaming just as normal there is nothing specific special about this and this works well with the current EAP noob specification so that\u0027s the kind of roaming that we currently support then in the following two slides I want to talk some kind of what could be done so now here is a user who is already at the other parts of the network and not in the whole network and in this for a network it\u0027s wondering when it has just purchased the first device is wondering why it can register that next slide the problem they have is that we would need to route the radius requests from this forum triple-a to the home triple-a and then if that was possible then we could do the authentication with the EAP noob but because the device now has the generic ID and realm\u0027 it cannot really connect your home or the load the foreign triple-a doesn\u0027t know where to route this request where does the user want them and we don\u0027t currently have a technical solution then next slide this is the final slide so the we think that there could be some mechanism for the user to interact with the foreign triple-a let\u0027s say a webpage where it can request routing of the radio requests for the new device to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:34",
    "text": "home triple-a and that would enable registration of new devices while roaming and this only needs to be done once and what then when the EAP new Association has been created the reordan dication will again work as normal roaming without any such special interaction but this is just something that we have been thinking about but it\u0027s not specified how to do this in the EAB noob specification we just have been careful not to prevent this kind of scenarios in the future that\u0027s all I had if there are any questions or comments this is a awarding list from the University of Murcia I\u0027d have to say that I implemented the contain the evening person for Kentucky I will send a mail with the github project on the mailing list what I implemented that with until University great thank you a vision wattage area from thesis research India so I have a few comments from different logistics perspective the thing is that in Bangkok I mentioned that considering the startup community growing in the subcontinent level what we have seen is that there\u0027s a gap in terms of securing this I mean the knowledge in terms of securing their devices properly so they have good sensor knowledge they have good knowledge on the basic hardware but this kind of solution as a plug-in can actually help them for a better service but the problem in terms of adopting the solution that I see is that when these companies they go to market their end customer would not like to use anything which is non-standard and also implementation wise getting the the numbers from Ayane is very important because people don\u0027t really like to change nativities inside so probably if it is technically I mean it is at some stage and there are implementations already available open source probably pushing it for adoption and standardization might might find a new opportunity that\u0027s all I wanted to say this is Elliot I agree that it looks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:35",
    "text": "pretty stable we\u0027re not ready to implement yet at Cisco but others are what I want to add though is I like your discussion about these the and the I we\u0027re basically following through tracking that from a teep perspective for onboarding yeah I think right now we\u0027re waiting for the aren\u0027t their charters currently an IAS G review so we\u0027ll see what comes out of that and hopefully once that goes through then we\u0027ll be set to it adopt new work items room engineer has the ad just to kind of be precise the Charter we were through the internal review of the ice G it\u0027s going for external comment and then it will come back I\u0027m sorry alright perfect so the practical process in case what we did is the Charter result first comes to the ice tree for a quick look are you okay with that yes we\u0027re okay with that then let\u0027s go to the community is the community okay with that and based on the community comments and then comes back to the is G okay you heard from the community are you now really okay with it and then it gets approved review that finished on on the 11th of November now it should is G on their meeting on 5th of December yeah the the external review period happens just like a ITF last call basically and then I is she gets checked out try at it yeah Elliott into the Mike it\u0027s on the teletype for the final ballot I have been working with a DS who were at some point in that lengthy process able to say you can start operating as if the new charter was in place so maybe we can reach that at some point I don\u0027t know if you are there but Julia you can just say that and in pursuit I mean I think we\u0027re we\u0027re pretty close you know assuming that once once it goes through then it I mean I think we can wait for the teletraan i don\u0027t think we kind of have holidays in between then but yeah sorry sir just checking gates it\u0027s on the teletrac for December 5th so yes in two weeks so the end is near for you know figuring out the closure all right let\u0027s move to the next presentation which i think is Burt\u0027s key can somebody do a little ether padding taking some notes no we\u0027ll fill them in okay this will be a pretty short presentation I hope next slide please all right well these so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:38",
    "text": "we\u0027ve only been subtle to small changes to eat deep risky but larger changes are coming the first is that the doctor that all the diagrams have been simplified there was a lot of hopping over things and where didn\u0027t we\u0027re in the swimming line diagrams from UML that didn\u0027t need to happen and so we cleaned a bunch of that up so that\u0027s done we\u0027ve done a bunch of rework or over the discussion around nai which is almost identical in nature to what you just heard from noob and in fact what I\u0027ll do is I\u0027ll to compare text there because I don\u0027t see any reason to be inconsistent with what noob is doing that seem that seems about right the last round of discussions we we\u0027ve realized is that at least thanks to yoni there\u0027s a lot of there are a lot of errata open on teep and so there\u0027s a lot of work that needs to get done so that tip can be more broadly implemented and so a couple of things are happening I think here I think we want to broaden out the this to a teep update maybe even de-emphasize the brewski part in this just make it more of a Jenner generic teep update but also keep you know the additional opcodes titl bees for brewski and so this ties to a couple of different things next slide please so here are all of the errata 14 might so I just had a very short comment on on this doing the update of deep and brewski so what I apply to my own drafts I I don\u0027t ask you to do anything what I don\u0027t do myself so I kind of recommend it to myself to split the PSK part out I would kind of recommend the same thing to you to put the brewski part in a separate Draft and fix the tea Parata as a separate document the reason I\u0027m saying this is because now teep is finally getting implemented in in Windows and and in other places and which is very nice and we should kind of fix the writin in in one document and I\u0027m not sure if like all use cases would use brewski and like my Windows laptop probably won\u0027t come with I\u0027ll divide eaj divide E\u0027s and so on so maybe as I said I\u0027m a fan of small modular document so maybe splitting them up makes sense yeah and I tend to think of it as the opposite actually Mohit because from an implementer standpoint if I have to end up reading a hundred documents to implement implement teep or actually they\u0027re peeps not the worst offender here but there are a couple of protocols in the ITF that are really bad because you had to really have to sift through a lot of documents I don\u0027t want to start down that road if we can get many of these are I think relatively "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:39",
    "text": "simple changes and nothing should require that people have to implement a brewski opcode in the process and that\u0027s part of the rewrite would be that you just don\u0027t you don\u0027t make them mandatory but if you do here\u0027s what you do yeah I should have added no strong opinion so I leave it for the best of your judgement yeah and there are a couple of things here that are well outside say the voucher aspects of ruski that probably are worth capturing and teep that we that just got missed the first time around so if instance the get CSR attributes function that that\u0027s in that\u0027s in brewski probably is something that is needed more in an EST log function which is what teep tracked and so you probably want to keep that one way or the other even if at the end of the day we decided to drop all the brewski the rest of the voucher ones there are other aspects here too which is if we\u0027re going to open up t p-- Draft there may be a couple of other tlvs that we want to add in any case I\u0027ll come to that in a moment I went through all of the the the errata and some of them are really straightforward right I mean you have typos in various places that sorta caught for instance and some of them are also really rather simple clarifications so you see where it says accept accept accept these are just suggestions as to how we might proceed in a drought in a draft update not something we have to decide on today but you know a rough cut of where I see things going there are a couple places where the the there\u0027s pretty involved discussion that you Oni provides especially when it comes to some of the derivations and that those those really do require more discussion when it comes to tea some of them are you know relatively simple like relatively simple clarifications like when to make sure using intermediate results when you\u0027re actually used when you\u0027re actually processing intermediate results and don\u0027t try and return the the crypto binding instead because the intermediate results I think includes essentially the same crypto bonding functionality there\u0027s like no nice text there was I felt pretty close to accurate there was like corner cases there like but what if you\u0027re actually finished then you actually do want to do the crypto binding and and he you know that\u0027s it\u0027s just small word word smithing along those lines so I think these these are the list it\u0027s not a huge list and it\u0027s just something I think we could knock through over the next couple of I want to say next couple months we\u0027re probably it\u0027s going to take a couple of cycles the meetings actually to make sure we\u0027re comfortable with this next slide please okay so these are sort of the new TTL visas that are in there already and then I think we just go through and sift and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:40",
    "text": "decide which ones are useful to keep which ones are which ones we might want to add and I think this also ties quite closely to the onboarding discussions that we\u0027re having as to how we bind to various onboarding mechanisms before you even get to eat so for this purpose what I\u0027m suggesting is that we slow roll some of this and if it really slow rolls then I would have to agree with you Mohit that we would want to separate out the clarifications but if we\u0027re not gonna if it\u0027s not going to be too slow then let\u0027s just proceed and see how far we get so I think there\u0027s one more side right so yeah there\u0027s this interaction aspect so how does teep interact with other 802 11 capabilities and EPP in particular how do you do network selection from wireless and how you bind from a DPP applicator Madi PP transaction into t p-- if you\u0027re going to do that and some of that has to be worked out architectural and this ties to the discussion that we\u0027ve been having about you know how do you how these building blocks look together and what does that mean from a from a how do we discuss that at the IETF so I don\u0027t want to blow up the you know this into a huge issue it\u0027s it\u0027s really not I don\u0027t think but we are tying this is a little bit bigger than just teep next slide okay so you know one of the things we can do is just have a section that goes through and accepts you know or provides an update on on how we deal with the errata then we have another issue which is how do we deal with TLS one three I sort of like the idea of having that done and the other document that Alan\u0027s doing one of the reasons is that I don\u0027t think and maybe in Ana\u0027s but there rest of us aren\u0027t really TLS 1/3 experts and if we could knock that through and the other document I think it\u0027d probably be easier but I\u0027m not religious about that either so you know the proposal here is less focused on brewski more focused on update as I said roll it slow get some more code going we actually have some code that we\u0027ve done in both WPA supplicant and in and in the hostapd code that goes not yet we\u0027re ready for release because it\u0027s slightly embarrassing in terms of one or two points and I would rather not be quite that embarrassed so I think at the end of the day you know probably in March the document will look a little bit cleaner in terms of how this looks and that will be that will give you a good view as to whether or not to adopt it\u0027s the way I see it and that would be that where I would leave things for now one of the things I kind of hope is we could knock through the errata that we don\u0027t we can resolve the errata without having them in the document and then just write the document would just reflect the changes right so that would be fine I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:42",
    "text": "think come on do that you know kind of in process as we work through because some of them yeah might take a little bit longer but many of them like you say are pretty straightforward and if we can start knocking those off I think that would be helpful okay so here\u0027s what I propose then Joe I will take as an action to post it to post these each as an issue right each of the errata as an issue with a proposal how to address I suggest the chairs track them as separate issues right and then you guys have the option of closing or not and and you know based on the working groups view and then when once the as as we\u0027re doing that in parallel we can also deal with the other deep work that\u0027s being done okay that sounds like a plan okay I\u0027m done cool text miss pixel max hello everybody I\u0027m max Paula I\u0027m here to talk about if creds we already presented last time on this want to provide some updates some consideration about the work that we\u0027re doing with its applicability and what are the next steps that we envision please okay so problem statement I work for Kaiba labs so we have our members our operators that tend to deploy a different type of networks from Wi-Fi with public access point to cellular networks CBR s which is practically 4G and Phi G doing in unlicensed spectrum like multi fire or our networks like the Oxus networks right however this one one problem that our members always report it\u0027s very difficult to manage to dynamically manage these credentials for their access networks and they really would like to have the possibility to change these credentials depending on the risk level that that is that they want to set in the networks right so today is very difficult for them to have a centralized system that does this across different networks different technologies next slide and of course we don\u0027t use one type of credentials we use different type of credentials like username password secret keys and certificates so certificate is one of them and you know usually having multiple methods can improve device diversity in your in your network sometimes and the possibility to switch between between type of credentials and security manages this credential is not easy right so we seen some proposals to manage credentials through through EEP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:43",
    "text": "but there\u0027s no consistency about being able to manage all type of credentials we focus mostly on certificates because this is a very common use case but we have other use case that involve you know keys or username and passwords and especially IOT is a mix type of type of credentials that in deploy next time so what are we trying to focus with our work so that work is trying to provide an encapsulation mechanism right so that you can use your own provisioning mechanism and/or encapsulate standard mechanism that already exists why do we think this is a a good approach right we work in many different vitamins like that bf a for example where they use a different approach they propose that devices get their own IP address get in jail state basically can reach a also server which is a online sign up server and then from there then we can get their credentials and then authenticate to the network however you know some operators reported that they don\u0027t feel comfortable deploying these type of solutions because now you have devices that are not authenticated and they can probe your network because they have IP so they have relative bility we think that this solution solves this problem because now you cannot route your message and it\u0027s from a security standpoint of view it makes a lot of sense and as before I suggested also for brewski we think that with our protocol being generic you can have profiles for that for your use case and so for example if you want to implement a full set of standard you know like est you can print the full est or you can just implement the renewal because that\u0027s the use case that that makes sense for you next slide so just very briefly Ameri quickly well how we organize the EEP creds we try to provide three different phases for now the initialization the management and the validation the initialization is the part that you can use to bootstrap the process you can use tokens or voucher that can be bear tokens or can be tied to a key so there\u0027s all methods that you can use for authentication but basically this the initialization says the device says oh these are the credential they have for your network do you want to do something with it and then basically the the server can\u0027t start if he wants to I started management please where you can renew or deploy new type of credentials it is supported by the device and then optionally verify that actually what the device has corresponds to what the server thinks you should have next time so what has changed so far well we simplify the proposal because we receive feedback from the from the workgroup these are documents are very long we want them to simplify so they can be understood better so we we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:47",
    "text": "decided well from from the Middle East they said it\u0027s okay if you say that you you have to rely on a secure method before executing this so this this actually helps us because we say well you have to have a secure channel but we\u0027re not going to go into the description how to get that once you add that like for example if TLS if keep or other mechanism then you can use this method and the we we simplified certain things by removing that but at the same time we add a new text because one of the item that was left over was to define one basic protocol that could handle all different type of credentials I recall now SPP or simple provision in protocol but it\u0027s just a very simple thing and basically this try to provide one method so it\u0027s not the only method so they the it creds is meant to be an encapsulation method and next slide because of this right we thought about simplifying the the document by removing the SPP we just put it there maybe put it in a separate document so that it Kratz is a shorter encapsulating method and the SPP can be implemented there or not now there are some other things that we might and you might simplify the document to make it even shorter but I hope we can do it then the next in the next version of the draft next slide of course I want to thank everybody that really helped us in making the proposal better and also in the chairs because they charted text has been a longtime discussion and finally we get we get there yeah thank you so much next slide so what are what I request here so of course we\u0027re focusing on the use case that makes sense for our members because this is something we want to deploy in our networks we also working with CBR s where I think on the 14th was the four released three EPs was a lot adopted to manage the credentials for cellular networks for CBR s networks then we\u0027re working also with the wireless broadband Alliance they were interested in to see can we use this to provision credentials in their environment and Wi-Fi we\u0027re going to present there soon there\u0027s no date yet so this is some work that can they can go also in the WBA next slide we don\u0027t think that the document is ready for thinking about adopting in the workgroup we want to simplify that and make some tweaks before before we think is ready "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:49",
    "text": "for evaluation but we hope that we can do it soon and maybe by the night next time we can think about adopting it this is the reference for the current ID that we have I know it\u0027s very in his late and you have the eyes very open but if you have any question please aha you know a lot of IOT or device onboarding procedure usually we have some Pro provisioning or create credential on the device and we use it for the authentication and for the later network set control so but here you propose that we we through the credential provision you know when the device is is joining the network so I don\u0027t know the relation between the you know the current method and what is the typical use cases for your method thanks for the question so with the with this method actually you can still continue to use that that approach in the sense that when you do an initialization phase if the device doesn\u0027t have as some credentials that you may leverage to register the device that happens in the to initial message so there\u0027s two messages in the initialization phase and you can use that that method to leverage credentials that already exist but on top of that you can you can decide well I like these credentials this is the credentials for example that were put there for certification you have an Aussie F device you have you know some devices that have certification already certificate but that particular method of authentication for your network you don\u0027t think is appropriate oh let\u0027s put it this way you want to change so you can you can use that credentials to register the device and then deploy the credentials that you would like the device to use the next time they they accident or something like that so think about you might have a voucher you might have something that is tied to a key or not or just presenting one-time token right to register the device that you obtain from a website somewhere we don\u0027t specify that this is outside the scope of the of the protocol but they are use case for example for adaxes network or CB RS is you have some sim credentials you can leverage them to deploy this that you no other type of credential like certificates or user name password that in the environment the same things we\u0027re thinking for our next generation of cable networks that we are working on delivering the tangi at platform and we think that because they added number of entities that are going to be on our networks we need to have some form of authentication and credentials managing that we use treat not only for the clients the cable modems and DVRs etcetera but also for the infrastructure so this would allow us to have a very centralized system for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:52",
    "text": "all our operators which is very interesting for now ok ok yeah thank you for the clarification I think in general I like this idea thank you thank you hey max so I think what your there\u0027s a lot here that you\u0027re doing that I think is really interesting because it attracts precisely to this morning\u0027s conversation right in terms of how we onboard with IOT I have one I have one major concern well it\u0027s one major concern but it\u0027s it\u0027s a lengthy one I\u0027ll apologize in advance for that which is first of all it seems like you have sort of the the kitchen sink approach here right in terms of there are all these different mechanisms that you\u0027re gonna try and reference with an ich ich red what we are suffering with in IOT right now is fragmentation of all this and I realize you\u0027re trying to defragment by by finding at least one consolidation point but I\u0027m concerned that with so many mechanisms it actually won\u0027t consolidate and so one of the things that we talked about this morning was can we distill down architectural II what is really needed to bind between these you know the input process for for eep if you will versus the output process from what came before and I wonder if we want to just take a step back a little bit as we go through that and say ok can we can we distill this down to something like we discussed this morning as as a you know something like an EDC sa public/private key pair or something along those lines maybe the public EDSA is a little ETCs a is probably a little too specific right you probably need a code point approach and this and I\u0027m not even sure about how to manage the code points in that regard but if we can distill that down then there\u0027s another opportunity here the other opportunity is that our two drafts merge right and we sort of proceeded forward along those lines I haven\u0027t actually thought all of that through but I think that\u0027s a discussion we should have and I really like the idea of merging in one particular regard which is less fragmentation but as part of that I think we we need to understand each of the use cases that you were attempting to address with all those different enrollment mechanisms and you know I think the the the gentleman from Siemens Siemens are here and in your draft and anima right you have you you have to try and chisel down right what what sort of a role enrollment approaches you really wanted to tackle right do you want to throw us SCEP and in-ears for instance and you know and i think there are some use cases that they have but that that needs to be reviewed in this context so as all as part of this if we can distill this down then we can reduce the fragmentation and that will accelerate deployment yeah Elliot thank you for the question yeah definitely if we can maybe merge the two proposals if we you know they both fit they use cases great less work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:52",
    "text": "and better work and so far architecture wise they what we are working on is try not to put architecture in this but lets you decide the architecture so this comes from you know the our operators they usually have some purchasing power for devices so that that usually helps them to have more freedom when they have to decide how to manage the credentials but coming to the point that you were saying about the you know defining all this fragmentation for these provisioning protocols I totally agree with them we have that problem and this is not a new problem you know whenever you need to implement a provisioning protocol you have to choose which one which option not that provisioning protocol cetera that\u0027s definitely true my plan is not to to do this work for every protocols that we have as I said before we have a proposal for the SPP which is very simple meant to be version not super flexible and like other programming protocol but sufficient let\u0027s boot it wait sufficient for for a good implementation and if you want to go over and have you know using something like brewskis cetera you could still integrate that right the other thing that I wanted to point out this could be used for example so and we talked about this this morning when you have DPP for example they approach that they\u0027re using for the personal use in the in the in the buffet to be transported over the enterprise so we\u0027re over eeep by encapsulating the DPP packets on the EP so you could potentially use DPP also in threep it\u0027s just an example of how this would enable new tools that might make find you in use cases but so this is all thank you let\u0027s go to the next presentation which i think is ok I hope if you hear me fine yes okay yeah so my name is john korabik ICA\u0027s I\u0027m currently a student in bremen in germany and i have submitted this draft yet just as an idea so you can go to the next slide I\u0027m working on at our networking Center in Bremen and I am dealing with eduroam and one experience I had when dealing with eduroam is that the certificate checks on supplicants in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:52",
    "text": "eap-tls are known to be faulty and with faulty I mean not badly implemented but they don\u0027t really happen in a way that we should well that they should happen so they use very unsecure defaults for example in android devices there was not really default for checking with Android versions at least prior to version 7 I\u0027m not quite sure about that so the certificate checking was disabled by default current androids have this option used system certificates with domain input and not really a documentation what this domain should be Windows Mac OS iOS they question the user for the certificate and at least for Windows you just see a fingerprint and no information about the common name or the issuer so that is a big issue in eduroam in bremen at least so the reason for that is from my perspective that the eap-tls specification lacks a specific method or specific data to determine if the certificate is valid for this specific use and I think this should be solved by giving the supplicants some means to determine if the certificate is valid for the intended use by in including information into the certificate that is implicitly defined by the communication context so if you can go to the next slide my proposed solution for that is to add a new certificate extension that explicitly defines a valid realm for this certificate for which EAP realm this certificate should be used this is a big advantage because the user name is implicitly known from communication context and the realm can be extracted from that and Cas can validate this if the realm is a dns name and especially in AD Rome this is true for the realms I have asked for comments on the mailing list and I have some other ideas seen on the mailing list so if you can go to the next slide there is RFC 7585 the niín AI realm specified there which is intended to help with roaming federation contest connections so this is one idea that was very like the first response that I\u0027m redoing this work here from my perspective this could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:56",
    "text": "be a solution to also use that for eap-tls but I don\u0027t think this is a good idea to just simply reuse that because it is not the same scope another idea would be to specify a specific prefix for the subject alt name DNS name or even for common name in the certificate for example eap-tls dot uni- Bremen dot de for the Union - bremond of the e realm but my suggested solution would be to use this new certificate extension so if you could go to the next slide yes so the feedback I received for that is to possibly just reuse the OID from the RFC 7585 nii realm maybe and that is also an idea that came to my mind after submitting this draft is to also add a specific extended key usage for eap-tls server authentication because currently speaking for Bremen eduroam as well the certificate we use has the extended key usage for TLS web server and client authentication and from my perspective this leads to quite a lot of problems because it is quite easy if people just type in their username and their password to set up a rogue access point and get credentials there so yeah this is my first draft for the IDF so I would be very happy to receive feedback of this goes in the right direction if there\u0027s something I have missed if this is useful this is Elliot again young Frederick thanks for the draft I think this guy is a little bit too the work that Owens doing if I understand correctly in in terms of realm identification I think Owen you\u0027re gonna talk to that is that right later or maybe not in this room but I think it we we we have we have looked at at similar issues in terms similar aspects that I think relate a little bit to your acne work and and and so I think they\u0027re they\u0027re a couple of things that are hiding out there what I was going to say is I was a little unclear the use case though in terms of when when you need that realm and the edger in it available in edge room for instance in certificate is being presented inappropriately elsewhere or they\u0027re not being able to select the certificate for Fred roams "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:56",
    "text": "use in a context of the Federation so the the the main problem with a certificate checking is that it is quite common or was quite common for a lot of a long time that users just typed in their username and password and did not select any certificate attributes and especially with the user interface in Eddy row in Android this was the easiest way and my aim is to help to get a secure default that supplicants know exactly from the certificate that this is valid for the intended years so this is Owen just to clarify what I was talking about what I\u0027m going to talk about in five minutes time is the other side of the house which is how vacuum can be used to issue inside certs but this is more relevant for as Brisky cloud but it\u0027s going to come up with a animal it around the week which is and when a cloud registrar redirects an entity to a triple-a how does the entity verified the triplicity by dentistry we\u0027re not about Microsoft so I have a question about how you intend this to be used is the idea that you don\u0027t feel that the users should be prompted to ok the certificate and that should somehow automatically check the NAI against this nai realm and just allow it is that the idea definitely yes yeah I guess I don\u0027t know it seems like a very dangerous thing because what prevents you have assert to claim any ni realm right they did it like I my corporation I\u0027ll I\u0027ll claim I have only ni realm for whatever I don\u0027t actually own it has no relationship to the cert and now you\u0027re not putting out the dialog box so I\u0027m can basically infect the user system with a with a false nai realm claim right I can I can put whatever I want in there like I\u0027m Joe blows fish shop and I\u0027ll claim you know that I own the NIR realm for you know and I say the u.s. gov right and and you\u0027ll accept that automatically is that the idea well basically the idea is because in eduroam we deal with public CAS public trust and CAS a lot to help to have this certificate attribute also verified by trusted CAS so that of course if if I have control over uni- bremond op de then I should be the only one who is allowed to be issued a certificate with the humanitarian de realm I guess I don\u0027t we\u0027re gonna cut the line hold oh yeah yeah just quick observation here improving the security can be done in several ways here and given that we are talking about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:58",
    "text": "an environment in which most endpoints are broken it\u0027s really hard to reason about security and one observation is that it really helps to be able to build your production system out in such a way that it rejects a larger part of the broken ancestors that are not only broken but also misconfigured so that\u0027s maybe a slightly different objective that we have in mind here then you are usually working with yeah so to address Bernards point that that\u0027s certainly true but I think one of the issues now is the supplicants by default don\u0027t trust any of the root CAS for epls authentication they do trust it for HTTPS and one of the issues is that all of the ETLs server certificates have this TLS web server o ID and I think it would help if the CAS would issue certificates specifically for ETLs at which point the supplicants could default trust all the route CAS and then validate that that certificate coming over ETLs is actually an e TLS certificate so I think what young Frederick has pointed out here is an issue not just with this particular oh I D but I think there may be a need for a larger eat practices document as to what the supplicant should do what the CA should do and I think it would certainly help with adoption rather a lot because it\u0027d be very very nice to be able to say you know here\u0027s my identification I\u0027m in realm X and I connect to some random as as ID hey I get a certificate which says it\u0027s for that realm it\u0027s signed by a root CA I trust therefore I don\u0027t have to do the whole clickety clickety click thing that everyone has to do now so I think this is an issue which is worth working on okay thanks we have to move on to the next presentation thank you yon Frederic and I\u0027m sure we\u0027ll have more discussion on this on the list so there barso I\u0027ll be really quick so the problem that via an Cisco trying to solve contacts light and so what this describes is it\u0027s a mechanism by which we can use acne for integrated with multiple different protocols that are used for issuing device and client-side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:58",
    "text": "certs next so the doc describes multiple different use cases how I can become integrated with est with brewski with the new brisket club registrar but for parts of most important so this room is how it competes grater with teeth and with tea Brisky are what\u0027s been rebranded as t pop dated extensions for bootstrapping and I think that acne actually requires the extensions the new TVs that have been defined and the T pop dish and so I don\u0027t think that I can will cleanly integrate with teeth there\u0027s a couple of problems with teeth as it currently stands next slide and so what\u0027s changed last presented this so for acne integrations used to cover exactly four subdomains as well that has been broken out based on feedback at the acne working group last last year are sorry last session and that\u0027s been attract me just this time around but acne for sub mins does it\u0027s a very nice integration for for client side and circa Xuan\u0027s it allows an acne client to prove to be an ownership of a parent domain and then the client can then send in certificate requests for hundreds or thousands of subdomain inserts after appearance menu but I haven\u0027t approved domain ownership explicitly for each client site search and the brisket Club register use case has been added and there\u0027s been a couple of updates to and Elliot\u0027s draft and the two most important ones that we\u0027ve added as a CSR attributes one on one that you missed in your presentation Elliott has a retry after TLV and we try after two they will be really really useful when and the t p-- server once which were searched to the client but was not willing to do it yet it can\u0027t do it yet yeah so next slide and it\u0027s what its core but like the dystrophy it should only be informational it doesn\u0027t require any changes to acne it will not require any changes es T or T RT Popish what is T and T two is used to antique define and product by which the client can interact with the server but it doesn\u0027t specify had to serve interests with the backend CA and Acme can be used to integrate at the backend CA next slide I was just over you to flow so this is this is boilerplate Acme this is how you can use acne to M do the main claim using DNS next slide this just bought skip over this that\u0027s just standard Tipton establishment this is where it gets interesting and so this is standard teak but doesn\u0027t have the Nu T of these that have been defined in tip update and the client sends in a PK C is 10 requests to the tip server keep server then turns around and sends a Acme new order request followed by an acme finalized request fun la followed by the Acme certificate request again everything on the left hand side the standard T everything on the right hand side for standard Acme no genius why the protocol and it ends up with them the client even issued a certificate that is sent by the cheap server using the pkc as ten people sorry a PK c is seven till the two the pledge next slide so the next slide covers it\u0027s it\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:00",
    "text": "new T of these that have been defined in the T pop date it defines what happens and how our client Lee were just using utilities so first is the client doesn\u0027t know what attributes to include in the C user request so the client sends and you teach these are attributes request to the Steep server that\u0027s response so for example that could include specific information on what subject to include or hots and to include and the client then in step 3 sends pikas he is 10 T of e to the t server keep server turns around and interacts react me Acme will turn around and say the status is processing I\u0027m not ready to she was searched yet Holly she was hurt in a certain period of time acme has a mechanism for specifying our retry after interval to the Acme client the teep server is jack me client and turned around and used the new retry after kill the send that retry back to the client the client will then retry after that timeout has courage I\u0027m the way that the tip of the attractor is currently specified it\u0027s just two different mechanisms for doing to retry one is wood in the tunnel if it\u0027s a short control to is outside the tunnel it was a long interval and that\u0027s indicated via either a 1x X or a 2x X error code until V and T TLV and and then finally after the retry declined part illustrator here is happening inside the same tunnel the client in step nine sends the exact same pkc as ten requests again to the teep server keep server then goes to Acme and the finalize our ger is ready it downloads the certain returns it to the client in the pkcs7 next slide is the final slide so discussion of what\u0027s missing from the draft is security considerations it\u0027s security considerations need to touch on all the integrations so EST and brewski and acme and t p-- and but the biggest the biggest thing that I\u0027d like to discuss here and the questions I\u0027d like to get feedback from is because this spans multiple working groups Acme anima mu why do we do with this where do we go next with this with this draft several people on several organizations have expressed interest in us but we don\u0027t over at lands any questions comment sir not really on this point some other point a just a clarification question when you do the the translation between the two protocols how do you handle the account management that is in Acme so is the account that is used to request the certificates from the temporary server or from the client well the tip server is Technic right oh okay thank you Roman so back to the kind of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:01",
    "text": "question where do we do it unfortunately I know the sec dispatch agenda is full so we can\u0027t take it there or kind of later this week so we can start I\u0027m sorry there is still that you\u0027re right then yeah the question I was gonna ask is I mean would this working group be against doing the work here and we can ask you know acne as well I\u0027m Francia just a quick question is there any relation of this drafter with the bouzouki yes it got its intranet wait with brewski well what would religion so brewskis loosened up for ESG so the actual certain role mechanism in brewski just uses boilerplate est yes um and this can integrate with est and that when the client sends the est simple enroll or foreign oil message to the each server deep server can turn around and turned it into an acne request because what and and in fact if you read the est draft the eastery draft says that when the server is deployed as a registration authority as an RA the protocol and the interactions between the RA and the certificate authority is out of scope of the UST draft so it could be acne yes because uh but um but my point is that yeah I understand your point but that\u0027s just the very last step of the Yeomen of the devices so it whiskeys are mainly about it that you know that from the beginning on here the est so yeah but the only the only relationship is is what\u0027s behind that est simple wrong API what\u0027s behind the ECC inferno Lindy I could be acne map on there did comparing to other working group I think the bullski has so little radiation where if your radiation with your work other may be more related yeah I think you know we can do a poll here I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s gonna think how many people have read the document okay three people so I think we have to get a little more you know people looking at it and you know if there is interest I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think it\u0027s impossible to do it in this working group it doesn\u0027t strike me as necessarily being the most logical group to do it in but you know it I suppose it\u0027s as good as any so I kill one of one of the agenda items for acne this week is should it be adopted by acne okay so if they adopt it then that\u0027s great I take the answer would be no from athlete all right so let\u0027s say and I\u0027ll take it to EMU or take it to somewhere else the only reason I think this le the only reason I think you should be adopted here is that it\u0027s gonna normally block on the teep update it\u0027s gonna normatively block on the t pub meet so I mean it works happening here if you\u0027re gonna normally block normatively block on something you hacked me then then it\u0027s a 710 split "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:02",
    "text": "okay but I think there\u0027s you know more discussion to be had all right I think that\u0027s it for this edition of your email working group meeting yeah hey John so like yeah just you know since there are these questions I just was unresolved right and maybe it\u0027s fine it\u0027s not like a big deal "
  }
]