[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "I guess my uh I still in pain a lot of pain actually from um from where he put the needle in on Monday last week yeah it's not supposed to happen so he missed or I don't know anyway I've lost faith I've lost faith with the acupuncture but on the whole maybe it had done something already I've got a book I've got a box of uh needles for OIC and stuff like that you want me to hook you up when we're in uh Vancouver together I I I'm I'm I really I really think that that that I think OIC will be withdrawn from the market by the end of next year oh no no I'm just I'm just talking I'm just talking about the needles I know I I I just you're on it I think that you're yeah I think it I was on it in 2021 yeah I I don't think it's a I think it's a seriously wrong drug but anyway cool Canada Day weekend coming up you know and I don't actually know when that is when is that really you don't know July 1 cool um what have we got we got on Friday oh we're doing a Beer Mile hello which I guess I can do now that I can drink beer if I'm going to drink beer again uh on Saturday we have a run with axe throwing unless you want to go on the 22 kilometer ball breaker"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "Sunday we have a a float down the river and a raft I I'm I'm adding these to the agenda while we or you're telling me right yeah okay and Monday and Monday being Canada day we have the actual red dress run where everyone will in fact be running a wearing a red dress while we run um you're awesome dude it's fun where did it go somewhere posted we got we wound up on the news oh yeah so here we go uh how do you do this seller uh no there you go yeah so the the newspaper apparently in the things to do on Canada Day pull put a picture of us from I don't I don't know what I guess it was last year I guess it must have been last year yeah yeah that is awesome people I yeah I'm not in that picture but I know you're crushed yeah yeah well I okay I think it was last year did I set trail last year or was it the year before one of the tricks of of setting Trail is knowing where you can have a beer stop yeah like in the middle of a public park an illegal beer stop in the middle of a public park and where you can basically get away with just apologizing to the cops and offering them a beer as opposed to the places where they actually get upset otherwise they're just like finish your beer and move along like okay you know and you're like I have two [Laughter] beers anyway Jerome who else we have we have a whole"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "almost full crew here yeah da Dave cannot join cannot join us okay Dave all right well uh let's start then I guess uh any agenda bashes we got roll call good uh any comments on the minutes from last time no I just the comment they look good to me when I type okay so here's the state of our documents um I I I I don't know I understand well we'll talk about off 48 um uh so so um Martin's not here uh but I guess uh we'll get to the flak document probably very very soon uh for off 48 um I think it I saw a message that it changed State uh last week so I guess it's actively being edited now so yeah yeah uh Steve uh have you said I'm okay with all the changes that Sandy said might be wor one more maybe not in that terms in these terms but yes I agreed okay you might want to just reply to Sandy just to be clear everything looks good just say that and um uh we may have to bug Dave to say the same and who's the other co-author is um uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "Michael who else is the co-author no it's uh morit morit okay so we probably have to get maritz to also say I'm I'm okay just a final you know um message that everything's good uh maybe yeah I think the last post I sent was there were like two options and I just said like pick whatever you want and I gave the textt for the two options and I I think they didn't reply since then I think the it's up to the RFC editors now the yeah they may is okay okay well you guys can still say I'm okay with the document as I see it uh because that sometimes is the um people don't realize they need another you know we don't we forget who we're waiting for or we'll ask them there there might be a let me see is there a off I'm take I'm I'm taking minutes just under Milestone review for this I see that you're you're you're not if you're not also typing right I'm not also typing on that just checking and by the way the text the new TT text is actually from a request from Jana that they said oh it would be nice if we have the text to match the requirement in reg but I mean it's just to be nice it's not a requirement Yeah well yeah and also that sometimes the a considerations text gets part of it gets removed from the document I've never been really happy with that I think it should remain but um some they remove it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "after they've done the activity okay yeah uh good uh that probably should go should probably go a little bit further down here um um oh okay I see what you're saying yeah I'll I'll do that I'll do that sorry I jumped ahead actually because we were you're good you're good you're good you're good you're good okay so um Spencer and I had a ation two conversations with um our ad uh which is Orie now uh change from Murray um and um so one conversation was about ffv1 uh version 4 and this Milestone here and what we think we should do at this point is we should strike this Milestone um that doesn't mean we can't put it back again later on but um that's what I think we should do is we should remove this Milestone not say we're going to get to ffv1 version 4 uh at any particular date uh but you know when we figure out what's it what what changes or enhancements need to go in there then we'll come back and we'll have a conversation about getting that work done um I I am fine with that because is T anyway so it just yeah we we want to to be able to do it again when we are ready for that yeah okay and and I I I I would just say I feel better about that than I did when we were talking to aie but but just the thing where saying we've got you know if we've got Milestones that we're working on if if we're working on something we should have milestones and if we're not actually working on it anytime soon uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "because we're working on other things uh there's no reason for us to have a milestone we we focus on matosa yeah we focus on matosa and then we switch back to to F1 yeah so just making it easier for people to to uh to uh agree to uh to know how to help us yeah yeah people are very happy with ffv1 V3 so yeah well it's it's a big accomplishment I think just have gotten that over the line so great um1 V3 is more and more used and it is great very very very good and but for the moment yeah there is no explicit need for F1 V4 even if there is already a lot of things in in the V4 in fmeg for some specific use cases like uh when the frame is too big so the compressed frame is sometimes bigger than the roof the roof frame and F1 has F1 V4 has some fixes for that but it is not enough for going further so we need more motivation and for the moment there is not enough motivation yeah right and and that's totally reasonable okay so we have four more documents some of which were uh I guess chapter codex I know wasi was was removed from matasa I think the other three were originally all separate documents before the question is uh is there one of these four that we need should focus on first or even two um and are they all still worthwhile doing uh codex and tags are really important uh chapter CeX I'm actually working on it lat because as I said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "before there's a Google some of cod student that's working on one feature one new feature that we want to add to it so I added it I made a new spec basically you have a ecmascript or JavaScript inside matosa to make it do extra things uh so I'm working on that but it's not like very important and control tracks I don't even know if it will ever be published it's just removed from M the main matosa document so it doesn't block or anything but I don't even know if we'll ever use the feature so we see uh and then there's another document that is not there which is Matos scare V5 which we could already start work working on and we said we'll wait until V4 or one two 3 4 are done but we already have things lined up for metros C5 okay so I suggest just I mean I'm not going to say don't work on it I'm just saying let's put we'll put it on our our our um I'll put it on our list at the end of the summer um and but you know have to figure out what is do you think that's going to be is V5 going going to be an enhancement document or no it's just new features new elements that have new features what I'm saying is you're not going to intend to revise the whole document you're just going to extend it yes it's not like restarting from scratch is just new things okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:04",
    "text": "so uh among all of these I said earlier I think the tag is the fastest I just didn't have the time to work on that I'll see what happens but the most important for most people is the Codex one but I think it will take more time so maybe you can do both in parallel yeah okay uh the other conversation that we had uh I'm sorry I didn't put this in here was about the PNG conversation um about doing uh I believe if I did I get this right it's it's ffv1 compression inside a PNG um wrapper uh container and uh the opinion of our area director was that we could probably do the work but that we probably should not do the work um we may wind up writing the the document but that probably it has to be passed to the w3c where PNG work has moved um and there's probably not more than a page of text as my guess to make it happen but it probably has to be done within the context of someone who knows w3c stuff so I was hoping actually that Dave uh Dave might be here I have a suspicion that that uh the um Smithsonian which I think where he works"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "uh probably as a w3c member but for the moment there is not enough motivation about that so in my opinion it should not be uh there should not be a lot of focus on that until someone is really interested in that yeah no I agree with you so I mean I don't know how how big or small or you know whatever but I think it just needs a champion and I think it's a a I mean it's with in our it's within it's adjacent to our mandate because we're taking our technology and putting it in some other place on the other hand the the Smithsonian uh sorry Smithsonian the w3c um is um is where that that work ultimately has to happen so I just wanted to get back back to the group about that and and if you're saying it's not jome it's not that it's not that important uh then I would say that we just you know we need to did I reply to the message I don't know if I I reply to the message and I explain what where the issues uh and the person who answered that there there is no uh very specific uh user for that so only guess that it it could be useful and I I agree it could be useful but if there is no nobody really wanted wanting hit it uh now I don't see uh a lot of um a lot of people focusing on that and uh on my side I would not focus on that no I think we need a champion to who wants to make it happen and they ideally need to have a connection or a way into the the w3c which I don't for inance instance but uh because w3c is a member a member"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "organization um and while the meetings are open to individuals to attend uh if you want to do anything you have to be an Institutional member of some kind to get to get there um and uh Ori R ad said who has been a member in the past says that um also that it's probably that they also have to wind up you to get you have to get into the working group while they have a mandate for doing s things and they uh don't always in other words they're not they're they're chartered and rechartered in a different way than um uh there so it says they're chartered until the end of next year uh but anyway so short of it is someone needs to go and and make the contacts and chat with them and figure out what to do so I I can't I can't promise that uh I'm looking in the right place but I'm looking on the w3c website at their member list and I'm not speaking the smithon in there I'm not either they they they could be listed somewhere else of course but um I was just guessing that they were a member and I actually found the list of members and they were not on the list um but that doesn't mean they're not listed through some other right I am totally fine for helping people to implement in PNG but yeah we need someone who deal with that in w we need a we need a a champion to figure out what to do with that the Library of Congress is if that helps I don't know I don't know organizationally what's I knew there was some senior part of the US government that must be a member but um yeah anyway so so anyway uh short of it is uh um that we need a champion ID Le someone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "who's going to write the code of some kind um and um you know we'll go and get the right container ID and whatever the their I a they have a different process that's not Ayana um and uh anyway that's about it and anything else for today oh there we go yeah not from me no okay well good meeting our next meeting is at the end of August uh the van the next ITF 120 is in Vancouver in about a month um and um we'll meet at the end of August okay we're excited you thank you great thank you guys bye bye it was always a pleasure thank you bye everyone bye bye bye"
  }
]
