[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:43",
    "text": "good demonstration No [Music] [Music] oh you dumb Darrin [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:52",
    "text": "so hello everyone if people could walk in and sit down and take a seat and stop talking and listen for a second and I\u0027m gonna talk louder and louder and louder until people thank you very much apparently that didn\u0027t work for Kathleen or Eliot and still doesn\u0027t okay so I\u0027ll give people another 30 seconds to walk in and sit down [Music] alrighty we\u0027ll count that as good enough so hello everybody and welcome to the joint ops area and updated liji meeting there are blue sheets which should be circling or will be soon been was just filling them in this is the IETF note well please make sure that you note it well it has important stuff on some of it is legal and IPR stuff please make sure that you understand what it means and talk to your lawyers or whatever we\u0027re not going to interpret it for you next slide so as I say this is the joint ops AWG and ops area meeting we start off with ops area first note well we\u0027ve done blue sheets we\u0027ve done who would like to do minutes I know someone would just love to do minutes for us and suddenly everybody who used to be my friend is ignoring me like for example Wes hanukkah who\u0027s sitting in the front and would just love to do some minutes whoa and that case who wants to do minutes because Wes says he\u0027ll do Java scream you will win our undying love already okay good enough nothing\u0027s really happened yet alrighty so we have a JavaScript we have minutes slides are over here we also have asked Kathleen to come along and give a talk on the mmm Oh actually first agenda this is our agenda we\u0027ve asked Kathleen to come along and give a quick update on effects of pervasive encryption on operators this is a document which had gone through one eye ATF last call then had a bunch of reasonably sized large changes and has gone through somewhat of an is G of L but now it\u0027s having a second IETF last call this is a document that I would really appreciate it if people can read and can comment from an operator standpoint Kathleen will explain what it is but it\u0027s I think a really important document for operators to actually provide input on network slicing as but conceived these the documents are gary "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:52",
    "text": "discussed quickly and then we have some open mic and then ops AWG portion comes after that any agenda bashing everybody know what\u0027s going on excellent Kathleen I think you\u0027re up so let me remind everybody that it\u0027s a good time to speak to nan come as well right there are on site you can visit them you can send your feedback I with the online tool yeah provide comments early and often hi so I\u0027m here to talk about use me Kathleen I have to interrupt we have a problem in the room it\u0027s very hard to hear people in the front even I\u0027m in the second row and it\u0027s even hard for me is it okay from this mic a little better closer I\u0027m gonna let me do a test is this better this way Lee okay good so that close oh thank you all right so I\u0027m here to talk about the effect of pervasive encryption on operator and so so this is a draft al Morton and I have been working on for quite some time it feels like now and essentially the goals were to document the impacts from increased encryption on security and network operations and in some cases this would be a shift in how some of the functions are performed if they are still performed right because some of these functions might be eliminated as we move to different encryption scenarios and the draft does bounce between various scenarios like only having a five tuple exposed or a two tupple and so that is something to note let\u0027s see and it\u0027s also to have these documented so that new methods where appropriate might be developed to replace methods so with that the document does not try to solve the problems that would be taking on much more than we want to at this time when I\u0027ll bring up the table of contents in a bit but essentially once these are documented if there are ones that should have some work done on them it could be a draft on it each section could be a draft on its own right on in terms of how do you progress or change the ones that make sense to look at so we don\u0027t try to solve the problems so we try to document the current state and in some cases and what we\u0027re learning through comments and feedback is that there might be multiple approaches being used for the same thing if we haven\u0027t captured an approach used for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:53",
    "text": "particular goal it would be good to have the current practices all documented within that goal area and that might even help some of the operators because some may have come along further in terms of dealing with encryption right so it might help people with solutions understanding you know they have the same goal to be met and this is the data that they were using and how they accomplish that goal right so I just wanted to make sure folks are familiar with some of the principles as to you know and I guess this is complicated is there\u0027s lots of reasons why encryption is increasing on the internet one motivator is privacy and confidentiality so you could look to RFC six nine seven three if folks aren\u0027t familiar with that document I think it\u0027s a good read and an important consideration so that you know you\u0027re looking at this from perspectives of others as well right so this documents focused on operators impacts but understanding the flip side of why this push is happening is important so this is one of the reasons for that push RFC 7258 is another right so I think most people should be familiar with that RFC and the plenary from several years back where the IETF made a decision to do that pervasive monitoring is classified as an attack and with that decision and the document there was a call for balance between security and network monitoring and so this draft is meant to be an initial step at working towards that balance right so if we have to understand what\u0027s needed on both ends of this to be able to have meaningful discussions in terms of how do we go forward and you know it\u0027s 7258 is nice because it does call out network monitoring explicitly and separate from other types of others separately from like pervasive monitoring right so it does call out that there are separate functions here at hands and separate goals here and you know and that\u0027s why we\u0027re looking for balance with with those particulars so this is just a note of some of the changes from 7258 and there\u0027s a later slide in the back up that could be distributed that has a little bit fuller a list of efforts from the pervasive monitoring decisions so opportunistic security was a change and basically how many in the room are familiar with opportunistic security oh great so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a fair amount the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:56",
    "text": "push for that just to give a real quick overview for those who aren\u0027t is that once you enable encryption without authentication your increase in the costs for monitoring and it moves the monitoring capabilities away from something that can be passively done in mass to a targeted scenario that cost more money to accomplish right so they might just be trying to figure out what Joel and I are talking about as opposed to what we\u0027re all talking about in a room or not in a room but so with that I think there\u0027s minimal use of that with TLS and IPSec has had no authentication for quite some time and this concepts been around and in use for a while it could just be server to server tunnels that get stood up and this allows boxes that don\u0027t know each other to be able to negotiate IPSec or other encryption protocol negotiations without prior knowledge of each other let\u0027s see some other changes that have happened in the in the past few years is improved improvements for TLS 1.3 which isn\u0027t yet out but forward secrecy and and other changes were put into 1.3 and these while they present problems for administrators the recommendations were actually in TLS 1.2 best practices already so I think in cases where we\u0027re seeing pushback on that is is just when people haven\u0027t upgraded to the BCP recommendation so they\u0027re still using RSA static keys because they have to perform monitoring and it\u0027s it\u0027s also so in that case it\u0027s an important case to think about because there are needs that so sorry I probably shouldn\u0027t use the word needs but but enterprises have so enterprises one of the big cases where that usage has come up and they have requirements to monitor within their network they are actually not required as far as I can tell from regulations to encrypt they are encrypting their internal traffic because it\u0027s a best practice and a good thing to do to prevent attacks so I think that\u0027s a laudable goal and they have to figure out how they can do the monitoring necessary but still protect their their internal data from attacks so I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:58",
    "text": "this is also pointing to by enumerated all these problems we\u0027re pointing to problems that could be a result of issues with data and troubleshooting capabilities logging from applications right so there\u0027s there\u0027s a mix of things that are going to surface from this and I think the discussions that hopefully this draft and other work will enable will be positive to get us towards a better endgame I personally feel that if we don\u0027t get a handle on this the encryption that folks want to see won\u0027t happen because it won\u0027t have the adoption but if we hit this head-on and we have the hard discussions and we figure out how do we go forward with each of these things and we offer help and have operators you know document these and and we work together with protocol designers developers my as we get to a better place and we figure out a balance and what that balance means for for us so what\u0027s the problem I don\u0027t think I have to describe the problem at all for this group but maybe maybe I will briefly so this particular example actually I haven\u0027t talked to this slide in ages there were cases where ad injection was being inserted into packets and there were some providers who were stopping start TLS negotiations so they could continue their practice and that one in particular was called out in media and by regulators so it was halted and but it was just one one instance of this where there was a practice in place and there was no other mechanism that was seen by the folks with this practice to you know worry about their revenue streams and and and whatever their their obstacles were and so they found a way to prevent encryption all right so we have the draft has been contribution driven and it probably shows there\u0027s been lots of different editors hands all over the documents so I apologize a bit if that makes it a little tougher to read but basically it covers lots of different areas so network and service provider monitoring encryption for enterprises and so this is a little bit of an eye chart even from me up here you see if I can call out so some ones that I think have gotten a little more attention but maybe could use more would be load balancers dpi performance "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "enhancing proxies content filtering for sure HTTP header insertion the enterprises i think we\u0027re pretty well set on that but if there are more comments we\u0027d love to get them and i\u0027m gonna try to leave a lot of the time to discuss here gaps so i\u0027m actually gonna make this quite quick so i hope that that works and i hope that people are interested in discussing maybe gaps that they see here in the agenda or if they\u0027ve read the draft and they have some direct feedback so security there\u0027s a whole section where security was pulled out separately from the different types of networks in the structure because some of these applied more broadly and in some cases like the ddos it talks to it not being a problem for being able to fingerprint traffic whether it\u0027s encrypted or not encrypted things like that were actually verified with three different people at different organizations that the text was who do ddos research now we weren\u0027t lucky it\u0027s so lucky in every single contribution that we were able to get diverse input so that would help if you know you have expertise in one area that you review it and contribute and improve that text application flow information so the IP fix text was recently added in the latest revision that was a glaring gap that benoit pointed out and i\u0027m glad that we were able to fix that if there are others i hope that those of you with the expertise can help so that we can get this documented TLS server name indication i think that section probably needs a little updating because there\u0027s active discussion happening on that now so it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of a moving target at the moment let\u0027s see and this last section on mobility could use a lot of help so we have not had enough contributions on that section in my so we had maybe three different people over the whole section but it\u0027s a really big space so if you have expertise in that area I ask that you review the document in last call and provide your feedback and comments and text so this one only right now it just covers the effective encrypted acts effective encrypted transport headers effective encryption on new or emerging services and effective encryption on mobile network evolution there were other other sections that got put back into the main parts of the document so it wasn\u0027t separated out as mobile specific so the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:01",
    "text": "impact varies because people operate their networks very differently right from network to network and depending on the type of network that you\u0027re operating let me see if there\u0027s anything so I guess a few points like I left out some of the sections in the in the table of contents that were displayed because things like data storage is it\u0027s not an issue right so I I work at a vendor and I had reached out to Lars for you know any feedback or questions or text on that and I think neither of us are seeing big issues because encryption was required by our customers we implemented it and we also made sure that the management functions that they needed were present with that encryption so I think that you know leaving that text in as good as an example of you know this can be done and you can do your monitoring and I know that\u0027s different than the larger Network I understand that but it just does serve as an example and another area that\u0027s covered is hosted providers but the motivations there were very different right so if you\u0027re a customer getting your data hosted by a service provider you\u0027re coming in with encryption requirements right and so the motivation for a move to encryption was was different there so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s as controversial and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s as in need of of as much attention as some of the other sections just in terms of Rio and making sure that we get this right middle box function so I think I highlighted some of these that understand making sure that we\u0027ve got this right would be really helpful from those of you who could contribute and yeah DDoS and incident management the impact does vary there some people are really reliant on decrypted streams and others who have quite advanced these sorts have worked ways around that so it really depends on operational practices and maybe if we are sharing more on these practices will learn from each other and understand how we can move forward in better ways so I think that\u0027s about it and I don\u0027t I\u0027m hoping some of you have questions or have been following the list and err engaged and you chat about this hi Otto Erica from Huawei interesting talk it\u0027s not the questions more of a comment so you are talking about the impact of let\u0027s say security measures on network management right however in principle they are mutually dependent because you can also be talking you could be talking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "right now about the impact of network management on the security of the network right can you repeat that a little closer to the mic oh sorry yes you could be talking about the impact of network management on the security levels that that are achievable given right today most of Security\u0027s actually active you need you know monitoring and updates to maintain your security level so this you know operational security assurance depends hugely on the monitoring so I was just commenting that this is indeed and very important and interesting dependency but it\u0027s mutual so we can probably maybe you know extend this to discuss this mutual dependency right right so the document frames the the encryption usage and motivations and the introduction then it moves on to operator impacts and that includes security operators as well as network operators and it\u0027s aimed at having the goal stated and what data is used to accomplish those functions and then not to solve anything and we might not have gotten that perfect everywhere so if you\u0027re reading the draft and you think we didn\u0027t do that quite well enough to keep it neutral enough let us know and actually very quickly chime in as well folk read the earlier versions of the document sorry I\u0027ll get closer to the mic again because they\u0027re really sensitive if folk have read earlier documents of the document or read it when it had its first last call I strongly encourage them to reread it one of the big changes has been in the tone of it and you know potentially that something that still should get a little bit of looking at but some folk had viewed it as that sure the message was saying that encryption causes issues and so should be stopped that\u0027s really not what the document is trying to say so you know if you got that from an earlier version please reread it because it has definitely changed a bunch Lee Howard it\u0027s actually related to the point that I wanted to make I I\u0027m doing a Rip Van Winkle I\u0027ve been unaware and you know I\u0027ve been ignorant for a long time so I\u0027ve only just skimmed it and it looks like you\u0027ve done a great job of striking the balance in tone thank you I think you\u0027re there at least in most sections there a couple places where I so I\u0027m going to review as much as I can it\u0027s a fairly lengthy document so I can I just don\u0027t know when I would find time but I will also then ask other people in the room if everybody will commit to reviewing a page or two or a section that\u0027s relevant to their area of expertise this could be a really it\u0027s already you know it\u0027s pretty good there a couple places where I\u0027d like to see just a little you know minor wording changes for clarity but I this is really good work to see I\u0027m really happy to see it thank you thank you hi Kathleen this is Mike Ackerman first off thanks for doing this this was really good my question is on your final bullet on the slide that you currently have up there why is it different when things are in a cloud hosted environment can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:03",
    "text": "you expand on that yeah so I made that comment in general and left that section out because I\u0027m not seeing the same types of controversy for that because the motivations for encryption in those spaces are different now this is not getting into the so with that I\u0027m not getting into like the the discussions of the TLS working group and applying that to hosted environments right that\u0027s a more general so not specific to a hosted provider the use of encryption in a hosted environment I think is pretty non-controversial right because you as a customer go with an SLA and the service provider is going to implement that because they\u0027re held to it if there\u0027s a general monitoring need because of a change and what type of encryption is used then that\u0027s different right so that would apply across the board okay thank you that makes sense more discussion to have on that one though because yeah so maybe I maybe I have to I don\u0027t think the document gets into that per se but if it does I can look back to see or if you notice a problem please point it out actually I haven\u0027t seen a lot of dialogue in that area and I think there it would be nice if there was more because in some cases it gets a little darker when it\u0027s in the cloud and some of that need is even greater at that point so that\u0027s kind of my perspective on it okay thank you thank you it knows bonus Equinix is speaking as a working group member so I\u0027ve been socializing this document and in general this topic of increased encryption ever with several operator forums and events and few topics has an aggregated feedback about that first on the language it\u0027s very there is a difference of the language used to describe the same things here at ATF and at operations community to give an example saying that encryption with effective functions of middleboxes might not mean not the same as saying that encryption will affect the IG MP snooping on my laptop switch and therefore break my AP TV service so if if more feedback from operations community is expected maybe a companion document or simply expect some other format of of translating this into the language and topics which are more relevant to the actual field operations would be good I do understand this is a hard work but this is just that feedback from the community so are you volunteering for the companion document did they say that another one on services would it make sense you had a couple of more examples like this like the one that you mentioned was IGP snooping that affect the real service in the document just examples that\u0027d be great yes and that would be a very good stat and a basically clarification of in practical terms what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "this document is talking about okay okay great so we\u0027ll look for your feedback on the IETF list when does the last call ends just so folks in the room are aware if you look at Diamond it\u0027s on it yeah I believe it\u0027s another two weeks or so so it\u0027s relatively soon when why I believe is checking because he\u0027s nice if I may this is Ellie earlier Ignace can you talk a little bit about which operational communities you\u0027ve been talking to and just to give a feel for that so in particular this he has been presented at in OGG which is operators forum for russian-speaking region which is part of a ripe ripe region coverage this has been presented at euro ax this has been presented as a side meetings at right meeting some other smaller country specific network operator groups thank you so second one allow one clarification so whenever you speak about operators how many we speak about here spew out two or can you quantify how many you mean people in the room attending those events yes and getting getting you feedback on the on the topic attendance off for example you know ripe is around 500-600 Euro ax 120 or so the target audience and the feedback it\u0027s tens mid digit temps so second one about the design assumptions and certain design prescriptions which are in the document quite a lot of security aspects in general very much depend on actual network design and this security is not a substitute for a proper network design and vice versa to some things or some assumptions in a document for example of what goes in a data center and which portion part of a data center or doesn\u0027t go in the data center load balancing and how that is done and what\u0027s the layering of those things it\u0027s not necessary always reflect of the actual deployments or say that the big portion of a deployments each of the deployments tends to be unique however there are some kind of a common denominators and not all of them align too well with what what the assumptions of a network design in the document are just to address that I did ask at the beginning of this that if there are other ways in which the salt same goal is gone after that we get descriptions on that and it fits to your point right because the design of the network may impact the choice yes but may have the same goal and the third one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:04",
    "text": "probably the most controversial quite frequently the feedback was does this after reading this document and listening to all this does it mean that encryption is evil and we should do less of it really no the whole point is to start having the conversation because if operators are having problems and they have specific functions and application developers are not aware of those functions this is one way to surface those so the conversations can happen I like to kind of hit problems head-on and I guess I did with this one it\u0027s been a lot of fun to work on but it opens up the conversation and the goal would be you know how do we actually get the encryption deployed because we can release all the protocols we want it doesn\u0027t mean they\u0027re going to be adopted and deployed right so having these conversations on obstacles is really important because at the end of the day you know operators are out there on the network and make choices right and so they have to go on what what they have and so if we open up this conversation we may give them more choices yes definitely and just to be clear it\u0027s not me asking this question I\u0027m just relaying okay yeah so that\u0027s come up I actually responded to that I think this morning on list I\u0027m the same the same point and hopefully that\u0027s been made clear enough I thought it was clear enough in the draft but if you see text that you think makes that confusing please point it out because I\u0027m not seeing it and I\u0027m probably reading with a bias so it would be helpful to have that pointed out so we could correct it Thanks maybe one example of this so in the quick charter I insisted that we have a management draft explaining like in the drought that kept in mention what would we lose by doing encryption and the only point is to document this now it\u0027s up to the committee to decide if it\u0027s a big issue a small issue or something we should not address but documenting the the gap of what you\u0027ve been losing is important it could also result in discussions on whether we\u0027re using one type of encryption over another right so if you\u0027re using TLS sources IPSec you get a five tuple versus a two tupple right and so in some of the cases with some of the examples the feedback I responds to this morning was like well you could use SSH and TLS and and achieve this yes but by pointing out exactly what data elements are used that they were using TCP header information that has to be exposed for the function so IPSec wouldn\u0027t allow that type of of access for instance and just to answer an earlier question the working group last call ends on December 4th but for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "people in the US there\u0027s Thanksgiving and stuff so many days are lost then and also I\u0027d like to point out you\u0027re likely to be sitting on a plane for a really long time in the next couple of days reading this on a plane would be an awfully good idea thank you absolutely I\u0027m Darrin Pettis I\u0027m an operator and I want to thank Kathleen and al for taking the time to write the document and I am one that\u0027s guilty of not reading the current format so I\u0027d like to read it update read the updates and understand them on those very long plane rights the way LF but and I and I think that it addresses many of the usages but I\u0027d like to share that there are some very real needs here that you have explained for us to do that the work that we need to do to secure data there\u0027s expectations that your data secure and there\u0027s expectations that the applications are up in time and we all use these applications you know whether it\u0027s banking or shopping or things that we all do today so while it\u0027s very important to be secured on the internet and I\u0027m a privacy advocate as well I think that everything that TLS group is done with 1.3 on the Internet is outstanding but I think there\u0027s a different use case for inside the enterprise because of those expectations we need to secure and keep keep those up so that\u0027s one of the reasons that we\u0027ve been working to bring that awareness because encryption it\u0027s a hot topic right some folks you know really want encryption as much as possible but we also have to perform our job and that\u0027s kind of where we\u0027re in the middle right so we have to find that middle ground we have to get that pendulum in the middle so we can be as secure as humanly possible but not to the point where we can\u0027t look at the data inside the enterprise and secure it and troubleshoot it so it\u0027s that balance that we\u0027re looking for thank you so I say then as you\u0027re reading the draft if you find something that doesn\u0027t have one party feeling like they\u0027re open the conversation from the draft and tax changes would help then that would be welcome just so that it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to make a document neutral all right and it\u0027s important in this case and I know we haven\u0027t gotten it perfect yet but hopefully with help we\u0027ll get better yeah absolutely and this helps understand the use case so it seems like right now we have a solution but TLS 1.3 that\u0027s really good but it doesn\u0027t address all of the use cases out there so the document like this can really look at all the various use cases and then come up with a solution that fulfills all of those needs and doesn\u0027t leave any one party completely in the cold is very good and lastly I would just echo Mike\u0027s comments about the cloud although they do have SLA is there that they want to to offer up and we want to hold them accountable at the end of the day how do you do it if you can\u0027t see so right now yep right now we have the finger pointing going on between the cloud and the enterprise with problems "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:05",
    "text": "and it\u0027s dark and we\u0027re not able to see it so I think having some visibility internally only two people that only need to see it will be extremely helpful yes so we\u0027re trying to document the functions performed so that there\u0027s awareness and discussions can happen from the awareness very good thank you yeah thank you and we\u0027re running long time so we\u0027re gonna cut off the Mike\u0027s at the end of the queue and if you can keep them short yeah I wanted to respond sort of rhetorically to the question that ignores the asked about about making encryption like less attractive or less desirable I think over time we have encountered problems that have a lot that have caused us to reconsider or abandon methodologies that we formerly used because they were no longer good enough and I think like static keying was an attractive thing for a long time um much like say our c4 was an attractive thing for a long time and because they were sufficient to meet our needs and we had tooling around them and they offered certain benefits like for example computational efficiency it was fast on low-end hardware for certain kinds of behaviors at some point like some of those things we we look at them and we decide that they\u0027re a little dangerous and so you know if if we decide that static keys are a little bit too dangerous at some point um then you know they end up being a less desirable portion of our toolkit and over time you know they they end up not being part of it so and we use better things instead yeah so I\u0027ll just respond to that the goal the draft isn\u0027t to get at that debate but to document what they\u0027re doing so that alternate or improved practices where appropriate might be found right so if they can surface the stuff under that not not the but I don\u0027t have this anymore yep but just stuff under it so that it enables the conversation so we actually can go forward to hopefully better and it improves solutions yeah because I mean one of the things that happens to you at some point is if you\u0027re met if you\u0027re using a methodology that like you like because it\u0027s performant or it meets your needs at some point your regulators or your industry group comes along and says well it\u0027s not actually good enough anymore right and so whether it meets your needs are not as sort of irrelevant at that point and I think we need to be mindful of um sort of existential threat of that happening with any particular tool that we use but in fact where the tools that we use now because tools that we don\u0027t use yet are actually really easy to get rid of right um it\u0027s the it\u0027s the tools that we that are actually embedded in our methodologies and in our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:06",
    "text": "organizations that are actually a hard and take time to replace and so I mean those are in fact the ones that are the most expensive to deal with and of course the the most problematic when they become less desirable to use so already one time we don\u0027t like a line off the Lars so as ad for TLS I\u0027m not hearing anyone saying they want our say static he\u0027s reinstated they looking at their functions and how they go forward so so no one\u0027s saying keep this bad stuff in it as far as I\u0027m aware laughs I heard um so not speaking against Creek chair but nope but over in quick um we we only scratched the surface of this where we have only a very limited problem compared to what you have up on the slide there but it\u0027s already proving quite challenging and specifically sort of um so quick base it\u0027s also network operators may or may not have equipment that uses information that TCP provided in the clear arm to do network management and quick encrypts that information and one of the options over in quick now is that maybe we were going to expose some limited set of that information in authenticated clear text so we couldn\u0027t modify it they couldn\u0027t NAT for example but you could still see it um the interesting issue is that it\u0027s new with quake is that because the quick state machine actually is gonna act on the information that is in the encrypted part of the packet and we\u0027re just basically copying out some stuff into the clear text um that\u0027s not necessarily accurate right so just because we\u0027re putting something in the clear does not actually make quick a quick stick operate on that at all and so inherently there\u0027s less trust for an operator because we TCP you kind of trust that the ITT you saw was the ITT that the TCP sec on the other end was going to use with quick you don\u0027t know and I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s any good answer to this but it sort of adds another problem dimension to this whole thing and even if you expose information then network operator or the function if you want to generalize it kind of needs to sort of somehow have some opinion about whether you can trust that information at all so because we don\u0027t necessarily and the operators responding might not have experience with quick they might not realize some of their impacts so if you could read the draft or have someone help and and see that angle the other thing I don\u0027t think we got responses specific to would be like TCP crypt work so these they\u0027re all good things but understanding how we broach these conversations so that you know you guys can consider recreate you could recreate a problem a TCP crypt by simply sending encrypted TCP header information inside the crypto forum in TCP operates on that and whatever\u0027s on the other half the packet isn\u0027t actually what is if he operates on um we\u0027re not at that stage which easy peepers as a large installed base amount that between quick that\u0027s currently where we are everything\u0027s encrypted and now we\u0027re sort of talking about making unencrypted and sort of so my meta point is that sort of if we it would be awfully nice if we were to actually you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:08",
    "text": "so if operators wanted to put all of this new management functions in there that that they first actually knew whether they wanted to trusted information that they may be really can\u0027t thank you Thank You Lars so we\u0027re fifteen minutes behind uh nearly we cut the line already so can we just can we have your reply on the ITF mailing list of the last call thank you very much and thank you and while Ignace is bringing up the next set of slides the last time this went to IETF last call we got almost no feedback from operators to say you know these are actually problems that I see and think are important so this time it would be really useful if people can comment you know during it after okay thank you and [Music] hello everyone I\u0027m Leon from China mobile today and presenting on behalf of the proponents of the network slicing team we basically want to share with you what we have been doing after a tip ninety nine and in particular in response to the feedback from the non working group forming bath and the presentation will be formed with for individual drafts and in two parts the first part I will talk about the problem statement and use cases and the other one is about a two solution based draft so next like oh I can control it myself right so problem statement and you skate so if we have a look at what we get from the 80s and and all these attendance from the IETF ninety nine in the bath a general question is ARC\u0027s about what we have been presenting is well this is a too big question to work on as a single working group so in response to that and we as a team actually decide to move the focus specifically to the operation of management of network slicing in scope of the IETF work so there also discussion about okay there\u0027s no clear requirement for transport network that were slicing from 3gpp revision 15 perspective should we still do network slicing in IETF and our point of view the answer is absolutely yes because network slicing is a general topic not for a specific standardization I\u0027m a group what we all know that 3gpp iclt and BBF and now I\u0027d say Oh looking at this problem and we think as transport now if we define transport network and not not TCP transport I mean transport network it intrinsically actually asks for the capability of network slicing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:09",
    "text": "and so as a service provider we see that although slicing is more about a new concept of business model a new concept of how you manage your network how you slice your network for dedication uses we see these type of dedication and business model is a norm for the future network people can argue that VPN is a network slice in transport network I I don\u0027t argue that that this is wrong this is right but this is this is correct but this is only one case for the basic the most simple network slicing we seen that were slicing a more integrated system with more components other than connectivity so we\u0027ll have more discussion on next slide so it\u0027s also asked in the bath that we still have not have a consensus what a network slice is in in a scope that was but in the scope of ATF so we we tried to and have consensus on that in the team so we believe we have consensus now that networks slicing with ing is a mechanism is a management mechanism that an service provider or a infrastructure owner or a virtual service provider whatever can use to make the dedication to their network and to provide this dedication to third party tenant which we call in the draft network slice tenants and network slice without the ing is actually the dedicated network and it is a manageable group of network components including connectivity storage computing which other resources part and also include which we call it in the draft generalized network function or generalized service functions so those are the functions either it is physical network function or virtualized network function that exists in the network that under the supervision of your service provider can be provided can be exposed to the network slice tenant so from the definition we see that the nook slicing or the network slice itself is gonna be a heater genius system and it has to be supervised because without supervision we can\u0027t guarantee the sliced dedicated network can be provided with a guaranteed service for the network size tenants so we have the name as the problem statement supervised heterogeneous network slicing this is a general diagram we see where our operation and management set in the system or in the architecture so the the upper block is what we call it network slice as a service so it\u0027s really not ITF specific it\u0027s just you know help us to understand "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:10",
    "text": "so you can create via a portal for example from a template you know predefined by a service provider or infrastructure and for you know generalized a purpose slices or you know most common slice that has been discussed a lot in 3gpp for example three different types of rents and also you can create you know more customized ones just about adding the components you want for example a gaming company may want a certain topology for their game servers for deterministic or for low latency applications so that\u0027s different type of creations so in the middle part where you know the common operation and management come into the picture is what we call it cross segment slice manager we define SEC but this can be discussed this is just a terminology we are using currently we define segment simply as a you know um if we think I need to have you know take care of the internet then we also take care of the back home and then there are other segments for example you have run and you have the Sailor core so that\u0027s the segment and inside the ietf segment there are also different domains so we have for example maybe a CTN domains you have you know the legacy domains where we still use non Sdn aware traditional EMS system to manage our transport devices and you also have your access domains and you have your Odeon or the WM domains where you have different managers so that\u0027s we call it domain and those controllers or management system we call it two main agents and it\u0027s in red because in the latest version draft there\u0027s no there\u0027s a different name but please refer to the slides I said you know a more latest version so components for network slicing now we have defined four types of five types of different components connectivity computing storage similarly for you know nfe methodology where the networking computing and storage so the three major part of three major different kinds of network components also exist and transport because in computing storage a typical usage of these two type of resources in transport is a customized controller or in recipient network it could be a storage of centric service that a tenant won\u0027t may want in their network slice and then the generalized function will be a you know a wider character e so it\u0027s also a you know a section that is left out for a more discussion here so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:10",
    "text": "we tried I\u0027ll talk about this later in the solution based draft we tried to integrate some of the examples of the existing network functions that we think may be capable of exposed to network slice tenant so the example can be firewalls a next service and others and then we leave a extend extendable session with others because we see new technologies that may not be widely distributed widely deployed in wide area network it might be deployed in song specific local local network or some specific domain in a operators network for some ICN and others so we will leave that out and then people can add what they actually think is available for slicing as well so the common operation and management in short CE o NS is the base of our work now and we basically deal with these operation and management a matters for network slicing and I don\u0027t know if it is too small this is basically a working flow how a network slice tenant ask for a nap slice service and then a the service profile can be step-by-step mapping to the bottom layer what we call in an IETF network configuration model so basically you have a service delivery model which is more businesslike business viewpoint and then a because we have different segments then the service delivery model would be a global one and these you know the decompose at once and then the co mas comms we are talking about will take the delivery model service delivery model and map them to a information model described inside the crop segment slice manager or the slice manager within the IDF domain because using the information model you can have a visualized a set of information how a network slice actually looked like and then these information model will be used to further map to do many specific network configuration models which can be used by what we call domain agent which is the controllers you know controls the specific a demonstrated an administrative domains so that\u0027s basically working flow and the basic the main functions of comms I\u0027ve listed there I won\u0027t you know just just read them and it\u0027s there more explanation in the draft you\u0027re more than welcome to have a look at them and leave your comments in the mailing list and we can have a lot of discussion on this because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:11",
    "text": "those are top level descriptions and there are a lot in detail to be discussed so with the narrowed scope we have a bullet we have some bullet point so as I said the common information model will be the key for the comms and then there are other concerns including monitoring including lifecycle management for detection protection mechanisms and those are OEM concerns and that will have derived models or mechanism or operation or interfaces and the last three you know it\u0027s probably more easy to visualize as a network slice manager you will have a northbound interface with these you know we call it an SaaS platform where the service delivery model will be sent to the North Hmong interface often that was lesson that manager so we need to define what that model looks like what product is going to be used we\u0027re not going to for now we don\u0027t see the necessity of defining new protocols to deliver that but we do see requirements of defining a model and also for the southmont interface but southbound interface needs to be discussed because it might be in scope and might not because for specific domains with mature technology has been done in the ITF they may want to do their own network configuration model themselves which is Capac paddleball with the network slice level kind of information model and we\u0027re open to that but for some legacy systems and others we can also discuss to bring that working eyes into the scope of comms so that\u0027s all for the problem statement do you wanna can you hurry I know it\u0027s bono from Nokia if it\u0027s possible to comment here about this stuff so I\u0027m happy to to provide some comments is that okay yes of course okay so you know you can argue a lot about meat oxidizing what it is but we all need to acknowledge that the current term of network slicing is driven by 5g and there are a lot of definitions available already in the industry coming from MGM N and 3gpp and I would highly recommend not to confuse the industry with additional definitions for the same theorem but utilize the definitions that already exist in the industry so this is one comment I appreciated the many affair your proposals in actually the way that you presented that looking from the business a level in the catalog based and whatever but one thing that I must raise concern is that and medicalizing at the end of the day it\u0027s end-to-end the entering network ties can be built of multiple slices one from the ran one from the core one from the transport etc but for the management and all situation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:12",
    "text": "we must have holistic view and do it end to end the same way because the end of the day it would be one entity that is doing the top-down and we must have consistent view and a lot of work has been done in a essay 5 in 3gpp already or networks I sing and I am very much concerned that we deviate or might they v8 from what is being done and considered there and develop own solutions here that at the end of the day would not be consistent with what is being done there so I see a lot of value here in what you say but I just see the need to work together to align because otherwise it would not be valuable for the industry yes yes that\u0027s very good suggestions and and honestly um because whiffing we\u0027ve been working with inside china mobile the 3gpp team just sit you know beside me so we have been working closely and we know um you know next a to the definition of natural slice in 3gpp does not include transport network so it\u0027s ramp last core end to end is rent and core it\u0027s not ren transport core so that that\u0027s that\u0027s in three DPP I say two but I know in essay 5 there are discussion of a end-to-end management in terms of that was licensing that includes everything but my understanding is 3 DPP is not going to manage transport network anyway but there is going to be requirement coming through and that\u0027s I agree with Greg there\u0027s no clear requirement you know three months ago in 99 but we are more confident in Kiev as a team working on our slicing when there is a requirement as part of the end-to-end network size and management from xa5 we\u0027re more confident to response and in term internally in IETF there are more use cases that end-to-end does not include random core everybody I mean I mean that that\u0027s a argument you know a view that I also would like to share there plenty of use cases where you need a dedication of network without cellular network and that is also some use cases we would like to look at in terms of IETF scope yeah okay my name is Jeremiah I\u0027m the 3gpp liaison person to ITF and we had this discard we had some of these discussion last time and I was the bad guy who told you that we don\u0027t have any requirements at the moment from 3gpp I we don\u0027t have any official requirements still now and I\u0027m doubtful that this will happen within the next year that there will anything come up dedicatedly from us towards IDF but I think what we said last time and what you also have in your presentation and what I fully agree with is this work if ITF sees a need to work on slicing within the IDF then you should go ahead and not should all the time ask what is 3gpp doing and why should you be P doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:12",
    "text": "that as you said now for example transport network is left out of our focus it\u0027s usually not in our focus so these this work on slicing is going on in several standards bodies in parallel and we will have we will create a certain amount of confusion for sure with different definitions and so on that\u0027s inescapable so that fact we have to to be clear about but I think if you look at it from the ITF perspective that\u0027s what we also determined last time is the healthiest way forward at the moment and then in the end we can say see what what parts of your work will be needed and could be incorporated into the 5g Berk so I\u0027m not saying we shouldn\u0027t coordinate but I think the time for coordination is very short so therefore I appreciate the approach you\u0027re doing here thank you yeah I must say that I agree to many of your comments so it\u0027s not a question and I also acknowledge that a transport a slice is also something that we need to look into I just say that the management and alteration is something more holistic something that you need to have consistent approach end to end and they don\u0027t see that for management and orchestration point of view you\u0027ll have different approaches in the coin to transport and they in the access so you might also intend to end so and also in the business level in the gateways between different operators so I really believe that we need to have elastic vo and they I don\u0027t want to get into the argument see how to coordinate and how to collaborate but we need to ensure that we create something if we create something that it is something that is valid for the end-to-end and aligned with what is being done in the industry end to end and I\u0027m not sure how to to manage that because definitely the IDF\u0027s the only particular segment they on this day end to end GRE Arkham thank you for this and this is an important topic it\u0027s dear to me as well but I think you\u0027re describing this sort of an you know largely in the same approach as we took in in the previous ITF sort of top-down that describe the concept and then you know keep describing what what pieces it actually needs and it\u0027s useful concept but the concept this is not entirely new it\u0027s you know it\u0027s it\u0027s probably going to depend on several other technologies and and concepts as well and there are many existing or under development IETF technologies that go into this I think I would think virtualization technology in general resource reservations VPN technologies of various "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:13",
    "text": "sorts traffic engineering management frameworks data models and of course there\u0027s a lot lots that goes beyond the things that we at the ITF do like you know pieces of software that do orchestration I think what we\u0027re searching for is the answer of like what what specific work there is that we can do to make sure that we can do the kinds of wonderful things that you\u0027re describing here so get get to the concrete stuff and mind you did you know some of these things they are like I want to get to the coordination piece a little bit because much of this is like existing ITF technology that can be used for this purpose and it\u0027s really our job at the IETF to figure out that our technologies are up to speed on you know whatever that communities elsewhere or the users require whether it\u0027s for 5g or for other purposes I would actually like to advocate also thinking about this not just from the top down but also bottom up like what do we have and which one of those things actually may need some enhancements I\u0027m actually working with EF contour on that question we\u0027re not quite done yet we\u0027re trying to get to a presentation on on Thursday in the routing area working group maybe you can join us there for that and have a discussion we\u0027ll see how far we get we\u0027re trying to publish the document before this idea failed to get to the end it\u0027s just just then and I think the data models internal data model describing a slice or a slice service or you know some of the components is it\u0027s one obvious answer that we will need to work on but even there you have this question of how does that relate if we do some data model how does it relate to other data models that we\u0027ve had done in various ITR working groups already and and of course then in the other other parts so I think that\u0027s that that work that we have to do what\u0027s the what are the details that we actually have to work on and how does this relate to other ITF board thank you Nokia I generally have a yeah it was always the same I generally have an issue with the term common information model because you never the read and never knows to whom it is common or from which perspective it is common it common is a general word or generic word you can use for everything so you probably need to give a more precise title to it to be able to know what it is can you go back to slide 6 please okay so ready all times you have adequately "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:14",
    "text": "so as you probably know NFV in general is in standard development already many years and there are different Steel\u0027s out there working on information models and they have defined such basic elements of those information models already some of them are really substantial I would like to propose to use them others are also there which need to be kind of harmonized so are you as I didn\u0027t see any sign in your drafts that you are going to cooperate or use an existing information model as the basis of your model or built on top of it are you going to prepare your model from scratch or what is your plan now we\u0027re more than happy to buting models based on existing technology just like Jeff said Jerry said there\u0027s a lot of it within a civil or outside incl they\u0027re all so many existing technologies or data mode or different kind of model that can be can be referred to to be built on to have these well I still prefer common information model because I have really not go through that slide the common information model is technology nonspecific so that\u0027s a slight level description and your concern of you know you have you have to have specific type of models that you can use to you know guide your underlay technology to initiate your dedication then that\u0027s you know the mapping part and that\u0027s what we call network configuration model and that is you know your concern of the specific ones as we said the terms need to be harmonized with existing terms in the cylons ation out there so I see also a big necessity to harmonize with existing information models and not to try to do it from scratch so therefore I mean it is kind of a adventurous project if you do it from scratch thank you so Alex do you want to answer now knowing that the time which we take now we won\u0027t have it to present the next foundation so what you prefer to give your argument now or that key continues thank you okay I\u0027ll get really quickly so use cases only two slides of use cases you see as it doesn\u0027t really change too much we we take out those and release it use case and we add one more which is categorized in the customisation group so we basically the use cases are divided to three different type which is the customization resource assurance and new technologies and in fact I\u0027m have a look at it and leave "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:16",
    "text": "your comments in the mailing list and then a solution based ones as I said the information model is a key for the common operational management of network slicing and we didn\u0027t for now we didn\u0027t restrict where you use this information model he calls you can either use a finer granularity of the description in the IETF domain or you can use a bigger granularity a rougher granular granularity information model with the same level of abstraction in the cross segment slice manager but methodology are the same so they they all give you a visualized network slice and and it is the middle part or middleware to map your service delivery model to the underlay a specific network configuration model and actually can I ask you to go through the slides really quickly because it\u0027s really been about half an hour sorry about that so yes this is the information model aligned with the components I talked about in the problem statement and then the last one interconnect this is the the second solution based graph we have so we have visualized a extendable feature of network slicing management where you can you know how this kind of recursive a management profile treating a sector of your neck slice a subnet so with this recursion you can create or something and connect them with interconnect to create a end-to-end out-science of course this end and is within the working scope in IETF so thank you very much for the time and and for two O\u0027s next 8sf meeting we would like to get people involved giving reviews giving feedback and we\u0027re trying to align the terminology it\u0027s still a little bit mess around you know according to the four new drafts and the previous four was five drafts we\u0027re going to align them and also we\u0027re going to try to make initial charter with a comm centric working items with the northbound interfaces with interconnect interfaces and with potential salesmen interfaces and talk about some of those lifecycle monitoring protections fault detection mechanisms yes and there is a demo on Thursday all day at a coffee break area you\u0027re welcome to join us thank you very much this will still run under the name net slices is this the intended working group name or both name or whatever oh sorry I didn\u0027t catch what you said so you\u0027re saying you\u0027re working on a charter now right so it\u0027s still in the buff face or pre puff face I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:18",
    "text": "know what the correct name is it\u0027s still in no state right now because the growth is whenever you prefer next ITF meeting right this one didn\u0027t make it so for the next one you\u0027re considering sort of a work in the name upon there should be a buff and that will be still under the name net slices right that depends um and it\u0027s the name because I think some people were looking for net slices on the agenda or whatever and there was no possibility to find it so I trust to understand is always confusing whenever people change your name yes on one hand this is good because of focus they refocused underside I mean all the night the draft name are changed and it\u0027s it\u0027s difficult understood okay Alex galleys from a heuristic origin I just want to make comment in somehow clarifying previous speakers yeah not you one is that I don\u0027t think that this working group is trying to create a common Universal information model across all the seven separately defined by standard bodies information model which exists today the one which is created here is only for the use in a context of network slicing which is specific and to be practically used and information good model is as good as it is used and clearly such information model for network slicing could be used in orchestration mark and management and few other things and api\u0027s and in that sense it is common to all this area is possible but what we shall requires coordination second point is I don\u0027t think that this group fail to understand that in the last twenty years were a lot of definition and work on network slicing actually quite a comprehensive list of definition were created last time the issue is to move forward beyond definition in terms of finding some additional work which would be beneficial and clearly some are related to the bottom up coming from VPN or otherwise which is very important but also from top down and the most part have to link and that\u0027s why I understand that this work as it applies to transport network is very much timely in a scope of overall installation in the world now and could add value but also if he does it has to do the bottom apart and a top-down or a bit and proposal about what the api\u0027s are related to these aspects are essential and this is the next stage if you on and to bring it back I always believe that multi domain issues are also fundamental these days multi domain is enormous other exception it has to be added although I understand that ITF has many domain-specific bottom-up Lee technology related to NATO slicing but there is now top-down to link the two and that\u0027s where this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:19",
    "text": "potentially work could lead and I hope that that answer to one of the concerns before but obviously it\u0027s a small group with only 25 equal should move forward and next time we\u0027ll have a more in case a drab better way to move forward in coordination rather than in isolation which is very easy to do I\u0027ll actually hope not yari Eric so I think one of the practical questions is that if you\u0027re doing data models are they sort of sort of guess employed that they\u0027re beasts only for slicing or are they some extensions of existing say VPN data models or what are they I mean that that\u0027s at least in my mind and unclear question at the moment and it would be good to get clarification for that somehow but I actually came up here to respond to this discussion about working group or both status and name I don\u0027t think you should only think about the possibility of success being you know we have a bath and then a working group is created and socks it can also be other things it can be that we gain understanding of what we need to do and then we put that work on multiple different working groups not ruling out that there be a like a working group on you know data model creation for slicing if we don\u0027t you can\u0027t just extend existing ones but that actually totally new ones but I think it you know it would be perhaps more likely to succeed if it\u0027s just figured out what we need and then you know divided work and possibly had some one common working group somewhere that that did you know some of the high level data model stuff for some terminology or something but but I think it\u0027ll be difficult to create a net slicing working group for multiple reasons one is that it would be a lot of work but more importantly it\u0027d be sort of removed from the other work in the ietf that is of cutting on the same same topics it might be better to have it connected that those works instead of separate in its own corner thank you that\u0027s also why internally we we didn\u0027t use our slices as the name for our you know newest draft we think that\u0027s too broad and that make people think it\u0027s too general there are too many things to do in a single working group so we want to just focus on the management and operation parts of it and to make things small and as a you know a coordination kind of working group to do this let\u0027s level management so yes we can have more discussion on you know the the format of how this work can be proceed okay so I think we have to cut it off unfortunately we\u0027ve already eaten into a bunch of ups AWG time and thank you very much to them for whatever issues that at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:20",
    "text": "its turn to so thank you very very much it was really useful [Music] [Music] [Music] hello everyone again this is the second part of a joint meeting the ops AWG area I see somebody waving no note well again anything that you say here is a contribution please take a look at the relevant exists for the IPR and just be aware of the note well blue sheets are still circulating if if somebody has not signed a blue sheet please do so those who have the blue sheets can we please see a show of hands where are the blue sheets has anyone got a blue sheet all right I see one there second one probably circulating - please sign please sign the blue sheets working group status update yeah we have six active working cook document firstly the cutback alternated tunnel um we change the document type to experimental and no completed the working group procedure and sent to is G on the service model explained document we just got the response it\u0027s approved by the is G and in our obstetric you so congratulations we also complete the mud walk it seeing is GL asked or so later adults who well report the latest latest the status of is document we\u0027re also going to have a presentation on the the yang model today a chin will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:22",
    "text": "be presenting that currently it\u0027s gone through yang doctor\u0027s review and there\u0027s been some substantive updates to the model based on that review specifically around features and we\u0027ll get a summary of that in the presentation today a couple of items which are somewhat more active and larger pieces of work the IP fix BGP community document it has been through a few revisions it is not being presented this time authors believe that the document is quite stable it and they think that they have addressed the comments received so far please take a look at the document and comment on that a we plan to issue a last call for that soon and we\u0027re also looking for a Shepherd for this document if it daily affiliated with an operator and who would have interest in this technology if somebody would like to volunteer for that please do either that on a list or approach working groups yes so please if somebody is interested in helping tisha to move this document forward please volunteer for becoming a Shepherd with the second large item is tax tax otters are not presenting at this meeting once again the document has been updated the changes were in the security considerations section mostly to cover the comments received on the mailing list previously that other commands are not addressed in the current version office will produce an updated version covering that again soon after that we would expect to see one more a revision to cover the comments after the post potential discussion also looking into our hives to address what was what has been raised before and after that we will be thinking about issuing a last call for that once again take a look at the document and comment on the mailing list then I think we can start our group discussion we have three items to discuss and firstly the landed model for NAT okay good afternoon everyone my name is chingu so Muhammad cannot make a trip to Singapore but he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:24",
    "text": "joined remotely I will be speaker for this topic loudly okay matter okay so this topic is about yamoto fournette and so don\u0027t this is what actually motivated by the network programming and automation and we cover several mad flavor that a wired deployed for example net for for nat64 Natalie V T and Stella this activity before at least six translation and EAM and so we actually this chapter has been there for a while we we actually make a several revision for this job the before the Singapore meeting and we chapter just we get adopted in August since the 2007 and we try to job this well faster to to to reach several people in a community to to have to review from seven perspective for example in zero one zero one working we actually cover say our eighty support we got a review from leha and also get some comments from Judy and actually I think we the design consideration actually we will consider to option it will we support a dedicated perfect and that means the stated is xr8 he will be provided if there\u0027s no dedicated perfects that that II can figure then we were required to configure the metaphor for and then the Daedalus XLT will be applied on the net for for the second changes pout and net net at MPD v6 for this actually we invite review front of Fred Baker and we make some change motor change actually for example we at the ingress interface equations in the face for the net device and we also improve the example that that in that is in appendix and in zeros verging we actually add the e/m support and we so the suggesting actually from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:24",
    "text": "tall Anderson and we actually may make a revision to to add these features support in there for version we at the cgn support we get a sufficient review from our car loosen like a whim and another evil is Christina and who supports each year we actually the the change we made actually we can associate the policy with a net instance we also add the net rim supporter that means the net function can be associated ways interface or worth instance in they were foraging we add the net six for support so it\u0027s actually a rich if to help to comment on that away actually make some clarification to Khafre how the module to apply for the state honest and este for and in zero six version we actually just made some editorial change and we request their young doctor review as chair mentioned we actually actually we get some review from your doctor like you can and we have a lot of discussion we made a to revision which is some my leveraging and a major version and here we will actually focus on the major issue we will actually to discuss this open issue actually we already made a new revision the nutrition is 0h and we already already posted and this discussion we address written comments so in early young doctor review actually there are several issue we we discussed as the first one out for some of the Pamela said we may be optional so we actually use feature to represent these kind of optional parameter set so we make a lot of changes to make a good use of this kind of entity the second change is we think we misuse some entity that reference to work instance so we have a lot of discussion on OBS aw many stop policies and we actually stray option those the we can use identity actually but we will avoid the struggling to define the semantics for the very instance the second option is we will reference to metal instance but we singer is not a stable reference the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:24",
    "text": "sort of choice is the way we were totally abandoned the war for instance but we may leave for the future to define this kind of feature to define these concerns and but we think in our net model for many use case they actually for summer use cases actually use verb instance for some music which they don\u0027t use for instance and also some of a reviewer actually request to support the Murphy incident so based on these so we given that is this we think we will actually take the first option we will actually use identity and so the the current changing cover this another issue is about logging actually logging is actually has to be defined as part of these metamodel and in this net model we actually specify like interface and IP address for the log server we also specify what kind of protocol can be used for example a be fixed and a syslog but you can think for standard track document maybe is not wise to actually leave the all of these logged either parameter unspecified or not we\u0027re defined so we actually based on these countries caching we to resolve this we actually we totally remove this log a specific parameter to address this but we still keep the login able parameter yeah so another one is how the relationship with a mid-match actually we I defined a new section to clarify the relationship with me botnet actually I think is the difference with me plant actually is we also consider to associated Polly policy with net function at a similar to the net emit actually we we sink net me actually only consider the performance monitoring but in Natalie FC actually they did indicate what kind of parameter need to be configured so the net young model will be used to config all these parameters that\u0027s a similarity so also there\u0027s there\u0027s some minimal change X for example some page you need to fly a flight rate faster so which we actually add some notification interval to rate animated these kind of notification so that that\u0027s pretty much the change we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:24",
    "text": "made actually we already cover these in the latest version inversing page so we we sync actually this is John Walker with cisco juniper and also carries a few review from the local occlusion and we also we have a implementation in FDA our project open source project so we singly isn\u0027t much it pretty much already and a stable we like to request the working with us calm Thank You Elliott Laird so how many revisions did you go through between the last IETF and this ITF just to just account actually this job has just get adopted in August 2007 in there is a reversion working go rushing and we spring on the job that we made it actually seven or eight so commit early commit off but not yes okay just just to be clear I\u0027m not sure that that that necessarily is the best definition is stable on the other hand I think great I think you should go forward with a working group last call to demonstrate that we can actually produce a yang model with some alacrity yes thank you yeah just just to be brief but we did get there worse a lot of reviews so the the the iteration was great but it was because we were getting those reviews so I I would encourage people to read this latest version I found some issues also them out on the list but please review and I I do agree I think going through a last call at this point would probably be a useful thing to your point early [Music] okay since you have asked for the last call I wonder I wanted to know how many of you in this room has read this document about five five or six or so I think you should call eight okay and based on the presentation do if you think it\u0027s ready to last call please harm and if you think it\u0027s not ready for last call please ham now okay and I think we can move the discussion in the medalist and confirmed the retard thank you the next the mod walk and Elliot I\u0027m sure you will be quick I know you have a lot of slides but we\u0027re getting up on time here um I\u0027ll push it as fast as I can um goodness me how did you end up with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:26",
    "text": "this deck okay just a moment all right these are the it\u0027s the wrong slide is the simple answer so I\u0027m just gonna step through some of the changes that we\u0027ve gone to I\u0027m not going through the whole deck that I thank you we are now complete with working group last call and ietf last call with the mud drop I don\u0027t have the exact I don\u0027t have the slides I intended to have up here I\u0027m sorry about that there let me just go through some of the open issues that came out of that we had some discussions about privacy considerations with with Adrian there were some terminology and consistency issues that that improved with Adrian being the new is he he was particularly editorial towards this document even though it he won\u0027t run through his stream mark Nottingham has helped me with a number of issues most notably Clara clarity on the use of HTTP processing which is his expertise we pulled the masa server out of the document based on working group last call comments now there are a couple of open issues the the first open issue that we have and it\u0027s sort of a big one is that the we\u0027re normatively a dependent on the net mod Akal model that that model has been went through the last call its fourth I think and there are some open issues Christian raised in the net mod working group I\u0027m hoping that he will close those with the authors very soon by making some proposals but that means that there will be some changes to the model to the resultant missed an she ation in Jason for mud my proposal is to pause at least for a little while to let them try to fix their wagons and if they don\u0027t then we\u0027ll take further steps come and we\u0027ll come back I\u0027ll come back to you for further steps but I\u0027m hoping that all that is really necessary is that we take into account their changes I regenerate the examples in the draft and and life is good now there are two or three other issues that are open Mark Nottingham would like the version number to come out of the URL and go into the model so that it\u0027s represented in Jason the good news apparently about the good about that is that it apparently it conforms to some sort of best practice within the the web community the bad about that is it will fire forever tie us to Jason at least until we do a next version which specifies some other extension model so I propose to move this draft forward if nobody really cares about being forever tied to Jason that we just live with that and say okay we\u0027ll commit to that for for for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:28",
    "text": "foreseeable future and I think that\u0027s the easiest way forward if anybody has an objection I think now we\u0027re on the list soon is the best thing to address that and now that\u0027s one of the big big open issues the other one is that mark has asked for by the way if we do that I\u0027ll have an element inside the model with the version number it\u0027s not there and so I\u0027ll plan to do that it will probably be like a decimal number or something like that so you can you can do a hello I think the second issue that Mark raised with me that he would like closed is like a new information element that specifies the name of the the URL for the signature I think that\u0027s perfectly reasonable hello it just means that when you generate the model you have to know where the you have a place where the signature is going to be it also means that you have to eat that signature with the file if you\u0027re not going to be doing the normal HTTP processing I don\u0027t think that\u0027s anything shocking to anybody you would have had to have done that pretty much anyway I think the third thing that mark and I like his comments here is that currently we indirect off of the model to pull out a system description we essentially it\u0027s a URL you say go fetch this URL and then process that URL is HTML he said that\u0027s a security problem because HTML processing is a security problem pretty much and so he said go back to utf-8 or something like that and so I propose we do just that just it actually simplifies things well it does mean perhaps there are some we don\u0027t track language tags as well but you still get different character sets and that should be a net gain if we want to go further we can extend the model to go further so those are the big changes with those changes taken into account does anybody have any objection with the way forward that I\u0027m suggesting Elliot Joe Clark just as being asking as a chair have you asked any of the operators you\u0027ve been speaking with what they think of these changes or the implementers I guess I should say literally well I\u0027ve talked to one or two implementers and they\u0027re like okay this actually simplifies things sometimes if they mean some sometimes they say yeah okay simplifies things in some way I don\u0027t think people really care to be honest though these are relatively you know the only issue I think we would see and the only ones that that would see it would be people who are trying to look well well into the future as to whether somebody wants to translate all this into C bar instead of Jason and I don\u0027t think we have to worry about that honestly because the processors that are supposed to deal with this are not constrained so that\u0027s the only issue that I see and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a big one so with with that what I propose to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:30",
    "text": "do with the drought is Mark owes me a little bit of text which I\u0027m going to try and hash in I post the area directors and the chairs that what I\u0027ll do is I\u0027m going to pause for a little while and see how things kink out you\u0027ll model in fact kinks out relatively quickly I\u0027ll just take what they\u0027ve done regenerate a new draft and then if you\u0027ll if you\u0027ll take that for purposes of iesg review I think that would be really good quick enough all right thank you everyone sorry next steps we have people who want to work on extensions to the model and that will be coming in London I think we\u0027ll probably see some extensions to Maude coming through in London so watch this channel that\u0027s great and the neck the last one is is the remote presentation I think The Voice is broken but your audio is really poor quality um maybe it will improve with time could you please try speaking is to train codecs and and and buffers and other things though it\u0027s still it\u0027s still not good no still not no it\u0027s it\u0027s still too choppy all right still still too bad is is there anyone in the room who can make this presentation here locally any of the author\u0027s co-authors or anyone who can do that it seems that we are having problems with the remote presentation here and there\u0027s no one local in the room to present that the audio quality is really not usable could you try once again no it\u0027s still it\u0027s still too choppy could you try disconnecting and reconnecting again possibly why a different channel or we cannot "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:32",
    "text": "understand so this is actually the last chat or topic of the ops AWG the only one remaining is an open mic I was just gonna say if we can just pause and give them a give the person time to reconnect and try again so that I mean it\u0027s really important that remote presentations be able to happen this is so so if we could just give it a moment if he wants to try and reconnect okay that\u0027s a pip one thank you good the kaneki is good it\u0027s much better nice big okay yes Venus that oh this work is best ow our recently research project and we illustrated the use case of network data for how it applied to the real network next surface ok well some penguins the WBN is the method of comparing the multiple signals from nasta beams at various imperative web losses for transmission allows it the fiber-optic media WDM system use the multiplexer as a transmitter to join the establish signals together and did multiplexer are just resist the receiver to wisdom a passion so touring the verb a Blas division service running network data is consistently generated from the web last division devices and you can reflect the process of service learning and service to the motivation the motivation of this script has two minutes first why is in the case of traditional web last division service the custom customer is a customer to handle the network pair of the service interruption so such the passive strategy its incubation and there is led to the launch service interruption second is we know the test statistic or critical list of network data cable operator to judge the 10-pounder whether the this is abnormal or normal all the service is in whiskey or healthy so they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:33",
    "text": "go as three three points the first one is illustrated the requirements of navigator use the two we evaluated the performance of webblock division service and you must register different application scenarios of network extender and a second we are presented some existing problem of learning network together next type is so I will introduce a chappie item terminology so the tepee our terminology is coming you stood in the HU under the est I organization so it can be used as the operational state of the networker device link on the head of the protocol in the network so in general the network of KPI present steady state the changes with good network ecology while your choose the transition the state changes the characteristics when there is another of the fair or abnormal state let me look status so we summarize the secret quiz mystic of the network data the subject something is the object to be made and it has the mod form for properties from dependent machines and the subject may have one or more major values and it available corresponds to a specific indicator and each report of the mayor value will have a temp stamps attribute that you indicate is time next time is so here he\u0027ll win goes the Childress cast because when is the a land an inanimate detection so it is I didn\u0027t identification of items even all of the machines wish to not Kabam to expect pattern or other items in data so the typically the anonymous items we all trusted translate to send some kind of problem such as the optical optical not lay a problem for the networker equipment performance Alon amis multiple features are usually extracted from can here data ok such as time the value frequency and then other key factors so for this scenario network "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:37",
    "text": "appear data include includes a such as a PCB f this is a short term for forward II error correction coding before a real cracking under the input optical power and so on so this is the sticker data can be for the user to detector detector the web last revision service abalone or improve the accuracy rate for this direction and a second is the risk exists assessment so you this use case is C is similar to the al animate detection however an Nanami detection is Kaku is network force and failure that already happen under the risk assessment is cope with networker risk and have not happened so this is a change of the two newest case so there are two ways you obsessed the net of the risk is a single heavy ice coating and the multiple casts coding and single scrolling strategy is used a score of a single KPI to assess the network twist also refer if the device is the monitor is monitored by Samrat separately kpi\u0027s the risk should be analogous to by the integration of this KBS cause okay okay so you say please keep please keeping please keep in mind you have used 2/3 of your time slot you might want to this is a week we can thank you senator from the dependent machines of black situation and the trend and the first shooter we pressed on this three dimensions to score a single KPI to the next surface so after they after the three dimensions of caviar under system the console responding scores are calculated so the main core of the abrasion or process is assigned the different ways of the three dimensions okay next scientist this is a multi KPI scoring Oh if a device is the monitor pile several key KPI the risk it should be an ancestor by the integration of this caviar sauce and now we can see the is the formula of the of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:37",
    "text": "the wedding first process and the way in the right well figure we have there we have the two KPI with integrated is to caviar to obtain the final final networks store next phase so we we we this is the our roster Styles under way present is obvious boobers issues how to Mirchi data from different time periods in the press of a data collection the teleTracking period of the Sam KPI may be different from each other for example from multiple domain deployment service the remedy the dependent connection para poner devices such as xxxii are families as well so we here to welcome everyone to use such havoc ok thank you right thank you for presenting any anyone would have any questions or comments hyatt Elliott first thanks for presenting a drop and for your patience with dealing with the AV issues it two comments come to me immediately to mind one is extremely superficial which is that you seemed I\u0027m not sure if you\u0027re actually using 2119 language in the draft and I don\u0027t think you really intend to for this purpose the second is more substantial which is that I I don\u0027t quite know what you want to do with this work it seems to me like it is an excellent academic exploration of wave of the problem and but that actually our medium is actually hindering your description of the work and furthermore I\u0027m not sure that we have the right reviewers for it for it so I wonder how you want to take it forward sorry due to the voice the quake here could you a quick update we all do under will give you my inner dress we can talk to you offline sure I\u0027d be happy it\u0027s mine is just we\u0027re at Cisco calm or you can pull me out from the Bob Kerrey working group right thank you anyone else would they have any comments can we please see show of hands who has read the document to people one question from my side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:37",
    "text": "previously couple of eight years ago there was a document on network intelligence which has some some areas cannot see overlapping but at least exploring similar areas are you aware of that work or maybe you synchronized with the office of those documents \u0027we were able to hear the question might be that we have again at the communication problems or something this will be taken then to the list so thank you again for presenting this and with this presentation officially the agenda of the op cwg is over this one open and that item open mic would anyone have anything to say at open mic yes everyone is eager to run to the social of course alright thank you yes blue sheets if if anyone hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheet please come forward to the chair and with that the this meeting is over thank you for coming "
  }
]