[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:05",
    "text": "yeah okay so let\u0027s make a start welcome to mvo 3 which is in Montreal not on in London still as it says on the slides that we have loaded does this map might not on it\u0027s on and it\u0027s just got to be very very close to it ok thanks my name is Mathew Bochy Sam I have a coach I couldn\u0027t make it to this meeting so I try and do this on my own so please go easy on me we also have a new secretary issue who\u0027s going to help and take the minutes so thank you very much here is the notes well I will leave it up for a few seconds if you could sir it\u0027s please ok blue sheets so there are two sets of blue sheets going around one on each side of the room please please sign the blue sheets issue is going to be our note-taker thank you ok I already mentioned we have issue taking over as working group secretary ok agenda we only have including this status update 5 items on the agenda today so we have a reason we\u0027re out of time any comments on the agenda I should note that two of these presentations are going to be remote on meet echo so Longo and Greg right milestones so these are out of date again so I\u0027ve put up I had a first pass that doing has some revisions to the milestones that includes well we have drafts for control plan requirements old drawers for control plan requirements and the NVE to NVH but we don\u0027t have a drawer front really for an MBE to envy a control plane solution so I I kind of given a lack of progress on the control plane requirements and and the lack of a current MV to MV a control plane solution draft I\u0027ve actually taken that off the proposed to take that off the the milestones for now and moved some of them back but I did add some security milestones for the security solutions and the security requirements submission to the isg hopefully can hopefully those are it\u0027s at least realistic to get the security "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:06",
    "text": "requirements published this year okay I\u0027ll send these to the list so if you could take a look at those and let me know if you have any any comments and then we\u0027ll get them updated on on the Charter so working group document status so we have quite a few rfcs and we have one new RFC since the last ITF our c83 94 which was the split NVA control plan requirements a few notes on some of our working group documents for the data plane encapsulation we have a new version of draft genève this is on the agenda there\u0027s been some discussion less the discussion on this recently has been around the security section and that\u0027s going to be discussed during the session today we would like to really push this for working with last call after this ITF I dearly there is also draft IETF n vo 3n cap which is kind of the out comments the outcome of the encapsulation design team and as we said before we would suggest putting that forward her working Greg last call once genève has been through the working guard last call process we have a couple of ongoing working group adoption polls so after the London IETF we started a poll on the Geneva security requirements and I was quite a lot of discussion around that and that\u0027s on the agenda today but as it stood we think that there wasn\u0027t sufficient consensus on the content of the document to adopt it so hopefully with the latest revisions that Daniels going to talk about we will be able to run another adoption poll for that we also have a draft on evpn applicability to NV o 3 that\u0027s currently under a working group adoption poll please read the draft and comment it on the list or state if you support or do not support adoption of that draft okay the virtual machine mobility protocol via the vmm draft so this has been around an or working group for a long time we started a working group last call but we didn\u0027t close it yet due to a really a lack of lack of responses on the mailing list the chairs requested both reviews from both the ops area and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:07",
    "text": "the routing Directorate and we\u0027ve got reviews back from both of those the ops area review in particular has quite a few comments including a review by their TCP maintenance working group so I\u0027m not running one of the authors could could maybe come to the mic and let us know what they plan to do about these comments yeah basis ako when one of two authors yup cerium review has a number of comments as use animation and we believe that you can we can revise by Saunders comment easily in a few days after I mean next week or the next week or something that\u0027s you so if you get down the reviews will be able to to look at them and them and will be quite religions okay okay okay I just wanted to get like a sense of the room about who\u0027s read this this draft because we didn\u0027t get any responses on the mailing list from the working group in general to this working group our school so far so could you please raise your hand if you\u0027ve read this version of the vmm draft that might explain it so it would be much appreciated if you could take a look at this draft and comment on the list because we\u0027ll probably try and do another working group last call after after the ops area review comments have been addressed and probably after we\u0027ve done some you know I\u0027ve done a review of tea CPM okay so just a one other items so there\u0027s been proposal for a potential joint IETF and I Triple E 802 dot 802 workshop on datacenter technologies in ban Bangkok which is the next ITF which happens to coincide with an I Triple E meeting Paul Eshleman yeah this Paul Condon um yeah the I Triple E plenary meeting is immediately following the IETF meeting in Bangkok at the same hotel and so we wanted to try to take advantage of that opportunity to see if we could get together some of the thought leaders around data center technologies the I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:07",
    "text": "Triple E just recently approved a project around congestion management and it\u0027s intended to work in in early it work with higher layer congestion management in the IETF as well so we think that there would be some fruitful discussions in that area there\u0027s also some strong interest in the I Triple E where of course all the switch vendors are and ASIC vendors around how we how we interconnect other data center technologies such as the overlay networks as well so the interplay between layer 2 and layer 3 and would be a great opportunity to have such discussions again a congestion being one of the interesting areas a lot of the new proposals here in the IETF are using option fields in the TCP header which would be inside the encapsulation so it\u0027s not clear how the fabric switches themselves would be able to see or do anything about that so that would be interesting to know how we can communicate indications of congestion and things like this to the edges of the network as well in order to take appropriate action so the proposal is that this would take place on a Saturday immediately after the ietf the I Triple E has indicated they have room space available so there would be no additional meeting fees or anything like that but the agenda is not fully set yet so we\u0027re looking for trying to hone in on the agenda and it would probably be announced to by the IAB or something in the ITF any any questions about that or okay so I\u0027ll also post something to the list the NV o three lists about this I guess you\u0027re looking for feedback on [Music] potential topics that people would be interested in yeah correct we\u0027re looking for feedback on topics as I mentioned the kind of current thoughts as it would be around congestion management but we\u0027re open to other topics as well so okay thank you both okay so that that brings us on to our session presentations I think the first presentation is for the Geneva security requirements draft so Daniel you done anyone we had yeah we as yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:12",
    "text": "we had a good option [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:24",
    "text": "okay oh you didn\u0027t hear okay okay so the the latest discussion I think that\u0027s the latest point oh no it\u0027s not the latest one the other thing that raised some discussions was the security optimization versus requirements so a typical example is that well if well we mentioned very clearly that we have to reuse whenever possible IPSec DTLS and so on and it\u0027s true that details provide encryption authentication and anti replay mechanisms but for the wool packet so then and this is also something that has been raised in the former security requirement document for nb3 if the tenants are sending IPSec packets it was mentioned as yeah you should not consider that as protected because the tenants are using IPSec but on the other hand you might be willing only to protect the the header of the idea of the packet exchange between the tenants to an end security in which case you don\u0027t encrypt the whole packet but you just encrypt a fraction of this so we had some discussions Rigas regarding is it is it an optimization or should it be a requirement because at the end okay if you encrypt everything you achieve this partial encryptions but uh maybe the necessary result is going to be gonna prevent the the security deployment of G\u0026M so that\u0027s where I\u0027m not so we had some kind of discussions should we have one mechanisms that might prevent the security deployment or but that would be much simpler or should we also require that some of this optimization be part of the requirements and there are a few cases were so the document is not trying to to make things very complex but then we we were when I was mentioning that the initially the document was about the security requirements for jean-yves we we wanted to end up in two kind of things so we want you to have some mccain eventually some mechanisms that apply to any environment with does it means that in some deployment these mechanisms can be implement in different ways and achieved the same security but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "sometimes there is a discussions with whether it\u0027s a it should be a requirement or an optimization and flow management so did when you have a genie of channel between two and ve one of the question with so do you multiplex all the tenants communications between the two and ve or do you want to be able to to be able to have different level of security within a tunnel or do you want to have one tunnel with one multiple Zoners with one level of security it\u0027s a still of if we don\u0027t want the flow management being inside the gene if general do we want it to be handled by different genève channels so it\u0027s again is it an optimization or is it a requirement so these are the kind of discussion we we had and so that\u0027s all we have now the documents should be in my opinion completely written I mean there were no discussion about the threats and the descriptions of the threats so discussions are happening under requirement I would be happy to get your feedbacks before I provide a new version especially what I\u0027d like to avoid is that some of the assumptions especially the standards of the transit node because if you go back and forth it has a major impact on the analysis of the security the requirements versus optimizations can be discussed once adapted or I mean everything can be district custard once we have adapted the document but if I\u0027m taking the time to rewrite the document I\u0027d like to minimize the backend fault okay thanks any comments yes this is are you able to hear me yes we are okay good so I have comments I mean I think we have had you know extensive discussions with the security requirements authors but I just wanted to point out that you know the transit nodes was as an important point where the security requirement document made certain assumptions that is not supported by any architecture and there are several requirements that are associated with this and then we have given detailed feedback to them saying that these are unsupported once and we shouldn\u0027t have those requirements and that\u0027s number one the second one is regarding the optimization versus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "requirement so so I think I think Daniel you know discuss that one as well so there are two things one is multiple flows we don\u0027t believe that you know multiple flows is more of a nice-to-have and is an optimization and and it is not an absolute requirement to secure the communication between the two nve pairs that\u0027s that\u0027s one point and the second one is on whether the tenant can can encrypt the data or whether the tenant encrypts the data or not if an operator deems necessary that the communication between the NV pairs needs to be encrypted and they will encrypt it that is irrespective of you know what happens here with the payload and so we believe that that\u0027s also an optimization and not a requirement so these we have submitted detailed detailed comments to the authors of the requirements tab and that\u0027s not been addressed in the current version that\u0027s been released and so with that my opinion is it is still not ready for adoption we still need to fix the the architectural issues as well as some of these optimization requirements before it\u0027s ready for adoption thank you okay so you\u0027re you\u0027re planning on doing a new Bush running a new version of draft right so well we\u0027re working on on the new version but um if we\u0027d be good to figure out that the assumption we had before we\u0027re really bad so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s more to to see the direction where we have to go and to me optimization can be discussed Oliver multiplex saying it\u0027s gonna be a shoot instead of mass so that\u0027s not a big thing the transit no the issue is seems to me more drastic regarding the because as Allegro mentioned a lot of the requirements were coming from these transit nodes so if there is actually no transit nodes as the way we understood those the requirements are going to be completely different so and then even the analysis so so that\u0027s why if we kind of fix on that it\u0027s easier to have a more stable version okay I think even given one just one of the comment given that this was going through an adoption poll it would be good to have more discussion on the list yeah about it rather than necessarily in private because maybe he had a formal design team around this okay if you and and and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "the Geneva\u0027s could try to have more of the discussions on the list if possible that would be good okay okay okay Thanks so next next up is a tango remotely so yes there\u0027s a commitment to Chuck same for spring okay thank you but I go you can go ahead yes thank you so I\u0027ll be presenting you know the draft Geneva update and the changes that we made to the draft so I\u0027m presenting on behalf of there\u0027s any authors I would like to acknowledge reader who had an externship contribution during this jenny draft update so moving to the next slide so we\u0027re we we made the following changes right so one of them is the clarification on the role of transit devices and this was an important point because it came up during the security requirements document review and and also we have seen some of the changes our discussion that has been happening on the OEM and so because of that we we felt that it is necessary to clarify the role of the transient devices so we will talk about that and the other important point about the security considerations section so we had made changes or added content to the security consideration section for the BCP 72 guidelines and so I\u0027ll talk about that one as well and we also made some updates to the option class assignment table there were two organization that requested for option class assignment and then we have made that and I won\u0027t be make you know having any discussion on this point because it\u0027s it\u0027s more it\u0027s more obvious from the updated draft itself as to the the companies that has requested for additional option class assignments so the one of them is actually Amazon and the second organization is actually Cisco so those two option codes are there and we have been assigning it on a first-come first-served basis and eventually we will when this goes through the iest review we will transfer this over to to the IANA ok so let\u0027s move on to the next slide so this is the clarification on the role of transit devices so per genève architecture the transit devices do not you know originate or terminate the journey packet actually that is the responsibility of the endpoints and this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:27",
    "text": "is also you know the end points are the ones which have the complete understanding of you know what is this tunnel and you know what is the you know UDP port number that we are using and all of that association is actually with the end points and it is not with the with the time seat devices so there were some queries or I would even call it as some kind of a misinterpretation on the role of transit devices and that was obvious during the discussion of the security requirements draft and also some of exchanges that we saw on the mailing list regarding the IOM you know our drafts so hence we added clarifying statements so that it is very clear that what the transmitted devices can do and and what it cannot do so again to to clarify that point it has non terminating devices trans devices must not insert or delete options because that is the responsibility of the endpoints there are two two other sub sub points - that is transit devices may be able to interpret the options but this is this feature is also optional and that was also clear in the top we just made it you know or we made it very clear that you know the options ordering or our options cannot be changed by the transit devices so so basically we don\u0027t want you know the transit devices to be going and updating it but it may be able to interpret the options again this is not very new because any of the you know if you look at UDP datagrams that are being exchanged between two endpoints it is the same thing example there could be transit devices that may decide may be able to interpret it but there may be cases where it may not be able to interpret it but you know it is it is basically the understanding is the endpoints or the one that establishes the connection and then and then maintains it and and also you would like to state that there was a note you know that transit devices must not attempt to interpret or process geneva way in packets and there are no changes to the draft I\u0027m just reiterating it in his here in this slide so that you know all the members are the members are aware of aware of it and that\u0027s that\u0027s about the transit devices so there was also an exchange I believe there was an exchange I think Tom her but in you know on greg Mirsky actually they were they were having some exchange on the mailing list and in in that you know it was also clarified about the same point that you know you will not be able to update the options and in which case if you have to use om packets then it has to be you know based on endpoint to endpoint kind of an options that that\u0027s what you do you will have to use okay okay have a couple of people in the cave for questions cases okay so you wanted to go through the questions before we move to the next security session so the one before last bullet says options or the ordering must not be changed by transient devices so actually the sentence says two different things so first of all I would suggest to to split "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "it into swing two sentences one talks about the ordering and one talks about changing or not changing the option now regarding changing the option again you mentioned IOM so I\u0027m maybe I\u0027m missed what you said but how does this work with IOM if you can\u0027t change the option what our transit device is supposed to do in terms of IOM so so if you are able to go and modify it as I said right the Datagram has the meaning only at the endpoints and you know even if you look at RFC 7605 that makes it very clear that you know the port numbers association is also established by the endpoints so even though the you know the transit devices may be able to interpret that doesn\u0027t guarantee any security that doesn\u0027t guarantee that the association will always be on this port number so it\u0027s the same thing with Jenny vessel you don\u0027t want it to be able to go and change the content of the packet that would cause you know issues security issues that would cause you know other issues with respect to you know what the communication that is going on between the endpoints it\u0027s like this like you are establishing a tunnel between a end point to the end point and end points are the ones that are establishing the tunnels and maintaining it and you don\u0027t want the contents of that tunnel to be modified by the you know intermediate devices and that was not an intent of genève architecture and we just wanted to make it clear that that is the case so just to make sure I understand we\u0027re saying that we\u0027re not going to support IOM and transit devices now if you if you are going to go and make and I change and if you\u0027re going to go and may modify the packet then what it means is that\u0027s an endpoints responsibility and then you need to be implementing an endpoint in order to make you know changes to the packet Thanks thank you hi Daniel Erickson so my understanding is that transit nodes cannot insert delete but what the only thing I can do is read an option that\u0027s correct okay okay thank you okay next slide yep hold on one second I\u0027ll just okay next to the security considerations section so we made we received a feedback from the recently completed RFC this is the NS h at the RFC 8300 during that review process it was brought to the attention that in a security consideration section should be updated for the BCP 72 guidelines and there was also a comment by Paul Quinn on the mailing list in VO three mailings mailing list as well so so what we did "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "is we added you know additional content so that we can highlight the potential security risk that may be applicable to genève deployments and also the approaches to mitigate such risks and that includes you know data confidentiality you know that is between the NVE pairs and also you know the data integrity to be protected to ensure that you know the data and also aren\u0027t so they ensure that the NV pair is actually receiving data from an Envy that it is supposed to receive from so the authentication of the NV as well so all we have added additional information in there to that is clear in the draft to indicate you know what are those risk scenarios and how to mitigate those risks and also we added some additional information regarding how to handle the broadcast and multicast and also the control plane communication some of this would be within the scope of of this data and some of this may not be within the scope of the trap because the control plane communications for example needs to be handled by you know it\u0027s not this is a data plane draft and but then we still pointed to that that it needs to be handled you know elsewhere and then let\u0027s move on to the next slide before we take questions if we have one more slide on on the security consultation section yeah so this was you know the the comment raised by Tao on on on the mailing list so not all the risks are outlined as applicable to all the deployments that is that is very true and that\u0027s exactly you know what we try to communicate in the tap so for example there could be risk that may be only applicable to say public cloud or multi-tenant kind of our deployments and there could be other you know risks that you know those risks may not be applicable to say for example a private data center kind of deployment and only the data center operator will be able to assess this risk as it is applicable to their you know deployment and so they will be able to go and mitigate those risks accordingly so what we what we tried to you know explain in the draft is to say that what are those risks and under those scenarios you know what kind of you know mitigation that needs to be taken in order to in order to enable those you know in order to address those risks and also what we did is you know you know we added sufficient information in the subsection so that it is very clear that you know where these risks are applicable and where these requirements are applicable right and the comment was saying that you know the comment was correct right it said that you know the certain requirements may not be applicable to all operators and it is possible to you know so so what we are saying is like if it\u0027s possible to add qualifying statement to qualify you know clarify that not all the comments are applicable to all the situation that is very clear right we can have a qualifying statement show that there is no missile big booty here so that an operator should actually do the threat assessment and based on that they need to enable the protection that is applicable to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "tear a specific deployment and that\u0027s it\u0027s possible for us to you know make that clarifying statement so that there is no ambiguity that you know it you need to apply a certain requirement to all situations and yeah but these were these were the in updates that we made to the made to the draft so mizrahi marvel so I completely agree with this slide but how does slide 5 work with the fact that the confidentiality integrity and authentication are must requirements I mean if we need on a persistent basis we need to do a threat analysis based on that threat analysis we need to decide which requirements are applicable and which ones are not why are we requiring as a must to implement confidentiality integrity and authentication okay it\u0027s a must in that particular scenario right it is not a must all the time so if that condition for example let\u0027s say in a multi-tenancy data center the requirement is to protect the data between the two NV pairs and that\u0027s a requirement and in that case the data center operator must enable it in order to protect the data right we can\u0027t you know we you know we can\u0027t be you know not saying what the requirements are so that is that is what is there if you go and read through the BCP 72 guideline it is very clear then that you know we need to identify the threat and also we need to clearly specify you know watch what is the must what is you should or you know what is a must not that needs to be very clearly explained and if you go back to look at RFC 8300 you know that was the recently went through this process you know it was very clear that you know we have to provide you know such requirements and that\u0027s exactly what we try you know we try to follow in updating the security consideration section here so the way I\u0027m reading the the current version of the draft maybe I\u0027m not reading it right is that you must implement confidentiality you must implement integrity and you must implement authentication we can add qualifying statement that\u0027s what I said right in the in the next page it\u0027s possible to add qualifying statement to make sure that it is applicable only in in such scenario provided I the operator has done there is you know the risk assessment and based on that you know they intend to enable it so I would really suggest you I think we have to rephrase it because right now it says something which is very difficult to follow I think if we\u0027re saying you must implement confidentiality and we\u0027re not defining an encryption algorithm we\u0027re not defining a protocol first of all no one when will implement it second of all there is no way to interoperate so it won\u0027t work so I would suggest to be very careful about using the word must in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:30",
    "text": "capital letters so just to remove it or to phrase it very carefully in a way that will be clear that we\u0027re not actually expecting people to implement it as a must but only to use it in certain scenarios or talat I think we still have to include the mistake statements in there because we need to clear clearly specify that but you can also refer back to the you know the recently completed RFC process and I also you know I also monitored some of the exchanges that went through during that you know draft review process so we will have to clearly specify the risk and we\u0027ll also clearly specify what the require those requirements are but it is possible for us to add qualifying statements that in such a way that that that requirement is not applicable to all scenarios it\u0027s only required in a specific scenario where that threat is you know is deemed necessary by that operator right I think I think you need to I think how are you saying basic case there\u0027s no point in having a must if you don\u0027t have a mechanism to back up that mast right now it\u0027s quite common in security considerations to give examples of protocols that can satisfy that requirement so if there\u0027s specific protocols that you have in mind to provide these then you can just lift those as examples it doesn\u0027t have you know rather than leaving it completely rather open-ended but the way we read the text right now it says as an instruction to the implementer you must implement these things and as an implementer I\u0027m reading this and I\u0027m saying I can\u0027t comply to Geneva because I can\u0027t implement confidentiality I don\u0027t know what to implement so we can\u0027t leave it like this yeah one other way - there are other ways to phrase it that that are perhaps less prescriptive but but satisfy satisfied that the kind of purpose of the security considerations section so you can I mean I you know this is just from my person speaking as a co-author of other RFC s where we\u0027ve had to do this you just have to you you have to start it\u0027s kind of state what the threat is and then say and these and there are mechanisms available to enlist some mechanisms to mitigate against that threat so just as a suggestion what we did for example in the tic-tock we had security requirements so what we did was we define the security requirements for a security mechanism that is if you\u0027re implementing a security mechanism in a system that requires this mechanism "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:32",
    "text": "based on threat analysis these are the requirements some of them or must some of them are should and so on but that\u0027s if you\u0027re implementing the mechanism so it\u0027s not a must to the implementer it\u0027s a must to whoever is using or deploying security mechanism that\u0027s what I suggest to do here point well-taken we will we\u0027ll try to you know adds you know sufficient you know maybe rephrase it in such a way that it is very clear you know what what we intend to do here yeah I think one of the things that we we intend to do with this this document once once we see a new version of it and run a new working or run or what starts working grid last call is to this is to ask for a security area review so what I suggest you do is to write down what makes sense for for an implementer of genève here because this is supposed to be specifying Jeannette the Geneva Protocol and hopefully we can get some some advice back from the security area or some guidance that as to whether or not what what is written in there is adequate from Schedule B perspective so somehow we have to obviously come to a compromise here as to what makes sense for a protocol spec while having sufficient text in there to also guide the fact that if you if you need to meet these requirements in certain deployments obviously there must be a protocol or there must the implementer must have implemented these other mechanisms so somebody like shall we send the draft asks is for this security review or is it you know after we make rephrase some of these sentences and then send it for a security review well I I would have been trying to rephrase it in a way that makes sense for an implementer first of all it sounds like we don\u0027t yet have consensus or we don\u0027t have consensus on the current text and there so let\u0027s get some consensus in this working group first and then send it send it for wider review all right okay thank you yeah I think it\u0027s a good path to go through I mean because having strong security requirements that are not implementable I don\u0027t think is gonna be helpful for for the review yeah yeah I mean that would be my concern is having having my statements in there that actually that they\u0027re not specific enough to say you must implement this protocol or that protocol yeah and one thing could be to mention I mean to existing things and what is missing somehow and yeah it doesn\u0027t have to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:34",
    "text": "secure you know all santoor have fulfill all the security requirements but we have to understand both what he\u0027s doing the limits and basically position Geneva regarding the security and the security requirement rush should clarify that this is my expectation yeah this was Daniel okay thank you any other comments on on the strata well okay thanks very much oh wait a minute Daniel just Daniel again what is a time line to submit this to the security area a review or ASG let\u0027s let\u0027s get some consensus so if you could update with some if you could maybe work with you know and tile work with the authors to propose some text might be to the list for the King for this this section try and get consensus on on the mvo three list first of all so in the next couple of weeks it\u0027s only a couple of sentences I think so and then we will no revise the draft and we\u0027ll go for I think I proposed actually that we go for a security area review first and then we don\u0027t be working group last call based on any any feedback from that so we definitely I definitely like to get a working group get this sent to Martin before Bangkok thank you yeah so if you can try and try known for that okay thank you Thanks hey so next up is a towel with a salad barking thanks my name is tal Mizrahi I\u0027m from Marvel and this draft is a collaboration with Joe\u0027s epipheo Cola and Greg mirskiy it\u0027s about using alternate marking in nvo 3 next please okay so in general alternate marking what we want to do we want to measure the performance between two measurement points MP 1 and MP 2 and what we want to measure is the packet loss the delay the delay jitter now in the context of nvo 3 the measurement points are nve\u0027s and what we typically like to do is to measure the performance on a per vni basis again the packet loss the delay the delay jitter so the way alternate marking works in RFC 8321 is that you use a marking bit in the header of the data packets and this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "marking bit its value changes periodically like a wave function and it kind of splits the data traffic into consecutive blocks of data and this allows the measurement points to count the traffic consistently which allows you to compute the packet loss that\u0027s in a nutshell without going into details so this is the marking bit it\u0027s also called the color bit now the double marking method uses 2 bits and the idea is that one bit is used as a color bit it\u0027s used for loss measurement and the second bit is used for delay measurement and the idea in the delay bit is that most of the time it\u0027s zero and then once per period its value is reversed and that\u0027s specific in which the value is reversed is used as a reference for delay measurement okay it\u0027s time-stamped by both measurement points and that one is used for delay measurement so this is double marking it require requires two bits multiplex marking basically multiplexes the two bits onto a single bit so that single bit is actually the result of the exclusive-or between the Elbit and the D bit so what we get is we get the same functionality as the double marking the same measurement accuracy the same measurement resolution using just a single bit in the header so what we\u0027re proposing in the current draft is to allocate two bits in the genève header for the purpose of alternate marking so once you have these two bits you can either do a single bit marking or a double marking or multiplex marking each of these is possible now one of the comments that was made on the mailing list is that in some cases maybe two bits is too much and so it\u0027s up for discussion but if we end up deciding that we can only allocate one bit that means we will still be able to support single marking or multiplex marking okay so again it\u0027s up for discussion so those cushon on the mailing list a few comments and based on these comments the draft was updated draft 0-2 already reflects these discussions and at this point we believe the draft is ready for working group adoption so you\u0027d like to ask the chairs to consider working group adoption call so Daniel MIGO Erickson I have one clarification clarification clarifying questions is the marking and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:39",
    "text": "the reading of the marking being performed at the NV or any node in the network at the NV is okay the idea is that the Envy\u0027s are assigning that marking bit and the entries that the terminating enviers are using that marking it thank you okay thank you it\u0027s a question from Alonso yes I think it\u0027s follow-up to Daniel\u0027s question so to be clear right so basically what you\u0027re saying is the enemy is the one that is marking this bit on env is the one that\u0027s consuming this bit as well right yes okay thank you okay so so can I get a show of hands if could you put your hand up if you\u0027ve read the latest version of the draft base yeah it\u0027s about three okay thanks oh there I go again another question so if that is the case then why won\u0027t they use the options in order to do this because that that was the intent of having extensibility engineer rather than using the base header because you can have the option to indicate this information and you\u0027re not limited by in the number of bits you know you have you know a lot more space in order to do in order to in or provide metadata between the NVE right you can use the options but the idea is that since this this approach only requires a single bit or two bits very small number of bits it\u0027s a bit of a waste to use an option for this if we can spare a bit for or to for this in the Geneva header we can just be more efficient and and still get that functionality I mean I believe that this is exactly the reason why we have extensibility and also not all the deployments will need this so so it will be better to have an option and then you know and then how you are not limited by you know one or two bits if you want one or two bit that\u0027s fine but if you want to use you know more that\u0027s that that allows you know use the extensibility feature of genève in order to do this so that\u0027s that\u0027s my opinion hi this is Greg if I may provide a couple comments and answers so strictly speaking there is no consumption of the marking field and I probably have a different opinion from toss that effectively the test point that acts on the value of the marking field can be anywhere in the tunnel it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:40",
    "text": "necessarily and the edge in V ok and the benefit of using fixed position of the marking field field is that simplification of the operation of the test point because then it makes its well-known position in a packet rather than you need to parse their verbal length portion of the header to identify where the field is - is that a question - towel or no no it\u0027s not the question to tell it\u0027s basically my answer to your suggestion to use a variable-length extensible part of the header for the marketing field because that will make it hardware support of it less efficient again I want to point that this method is even though it\u0027s this classified as a hybrid method similar to other hybrid methods it does not transport data in a packet the data being calculated locally at the test point and then can be exported out of Bend so which makes it even more efficient because you don\u0027t need to transport an issue every time stamp the marked path packet huai\u0027s by I mean I still believe that you know you can use the options for this purpose and because most of the Geneva endpoints that are that are implementing will also be able to implement options is not just the one and the efficiency is not an issue so so I don\u0027t believe that efficiency is an issue whether you whether you\u0027re interpreting an option or whether interpreting bits in an option okay yes I agree with you everything can be done differently there is not one way to slice the bread but in terms of performance monitoring being able to identify the packet as close as possible when it\u0027s being received it\u0027s almost critical because if for example the time stamp is not taken during the reception the physical reception of the packet then you are measuring something else basically you are measuring internal queuing delays and internal processing rather than "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:40",
    "text": "propagation delay okay and that becomes a variable so their quality accuracy of measurements suffers we can discuss it at length but I want to assure you that it is important yeah Greg I think it\u0027s Matthew here I think I had similar similar comment if you\u0027re adding options in a in a performance monitoring you know so you\u0027re making the packets bigger european packets bigger you know you don\u0027t want that the the fact that you\u0027ve added added these additional option fields or headers to to impact your OEM measurements which are supposed to represent the the user traffic behavior well again the alternate marking method works on the user traffic and the idea of using pre-allocated filled in a fixed size header or at least big sized portion of the header makes it almost as tacit measurement because there is no increase in the size as thou pointed out the size of the flag is so small so adding option will be significant overhead to the actual size of their marking field but right we\u0027re saying the same thing okay any any further comments or questions okay thanks so the final the final session is Greg overlay OEM identifiers so I believe this was already already presented in the routing area where it absolutely yes actually the document I talked only with the RTG group Cheers about the idea of starting this document and they suggested that because it combines analysis or reviews work being done in several groups even areas starting in an RTG VG maybe good first step there are some open questions about their path for this document and its lifecycle life span but it will probably better to get to that at the end of the discussion and presentation can we go to the next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:43",
    "text": "the question I had is when looking at in having discussions in groups that work on overlay encapsulations is that how we achieve unambiguous identification of om and om has a three different methods so it\u0027s an active William hybrid OM and passively passive om is always out of Bend and it\u0027s monitoring or sending out some data and it\u0027s not in scope of this analysis an active M it\u0027s characterized as a method that uses specifically constructed test packets and what we achieved with these methods is the fault management and performance monitoring it\u0027s an F and B of F Cox network management paradigm this methods could be single ended or dual ended so the single ended example would be echo request reply like ping dual ended it\u0027s example B of D in a synchronous mode when two ends are independently set theoretic text it could be a two ways or one way the two ways again it\u0027s an echo request reply in one way it\u0027s BFD in the man mode when only one endpoint transmits packets then we have a hybrid Orion in I TPM working group where we discuss different performance monitoring methods performance measurement the hybrid OM was defined as a method that combines characteristics of active om and passive area and their weight of each method that contributes to the hybrid OM could be different so examples are hybrid om could be that I want to discuss just earlier its alternate marking method that triggers measurement in situ om is another example that triggers measurement and at the same time collects and transport the measurement results or network state information what we use sometimes refer as a telemetry information in the database another example is the hybrid 2 step it\u0027s a method that collects and transports their telemetry information I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:44",
    "text": "think that overlay network protocols can be character separated in two categories encapsulations that support optional metadata so thus it\u0027s variable size size headers and that includes a Geneva as FC Anna sage gooey and encapsulations that use fixed size headers so they don\u0027t in support optional metadata and these examples are beer and VX 1 GP so looking at Geneva document which suggests to use obut to identify om it says that this packet contains control message instead of data payload but at the same time when we look at example of in-situ OEM there is a proposal that the packet may contain both we have data and payload so thus there seems to be a contradiction in GUI the OEM packet is not defined and there is no mention but the mechanism that they suggest is to use C bit which changes their interpretation of command protocol field and if the bits said then it means that there is a control information and in this namespace om can be defined as a product as a command type my note to that method would be is that if there is an intention to separate slope at processing from the first breast processing so if cbiit said then it goes to the slope at processing that some Orion methods are Hardware implemented so basically like PFD or performance measurement precise accurate performance measurements methods and making this differentiation based on fast path slow path whether to send to control plane huh or do the faster processing it seems to be not really well aligned with how I am or somewhere methods work okay next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:46",
    "text": "as I\u0027ve seen in an SH that basically there already was longer referred to discussion of 8300 it\u0027s it\u0027s a very limited so on talking about OAM and it says that opiate in a fixed header indicates that I am packet om framework which is a working group document talks about again that there is an indication of om take it but it doesn\u0027t say what we impacted is actually is recently adopted I am in a sage document has a little bit more about IOM specific relationship with a bobeat and the reason for that is that this document I am nsh currently suggests two options of encapsulating IOM information in nsh encapsulated packet one would be is using TOB and another will be as using the payload immediately following the NS h header whether it\u0027s fixed or using metadata type to next slide please Adrian with the coffers they have very good observation and that reflected in RFC okay so I\u0027m jumping fixed-size headers so in the beer is a very simple beer allocated next protocol identify for OAM and it\u0027s registered in Ayana so om attack if that follows beer heather identified through the protocol filled the excellent GP introduced obit and it says nothing more than says that indicate that the packet is oriented please note that all the protocols the excellent GP GUI genève a message they have next protocol field so let\u0027s we\u0027ll go to the next slide so the question is that all the many documents talk about om peg what is om decade is a packet that where the OM commands and information included as metadata in a header or om commands and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:49",
    "text": "information immediately follow the header and because encapsulation that has Om flag and next protocol field there is ambiguity if you have a bead set and the next protocol pointing to some protocol value what is the packet and where the OEM information located so I started talking about this RFC 83-93 earlier and that was the observation made by address and coffers that next protocol nan was not defined and next protocol none means exactly that that there is no payload following the header NSA shredder in that case and then they made the next logical observation that is the whole bit set and the next protocol value is none then om data located in TOB as a metadata can be used as active or ere mechanism which is absolutely correct but the problem would be is that length of metadata is limited in nsh2 512 octaves and I believe that you need limits it even more only 128 octaves and that limits their applicability for measurement methods that needs to generate arbitrary packet length for example MTU discovery or just the generate to measure performance affected to us and delay with without traffic so basically doing as a synthetic traffic generator using test packets so again yes it\u0027s possible but it will have a limited capability so again the question still stands how to identify or am command information that immediately follows the header next slide please I would have I\u0027m proposing the following recommendation if the protocol encapsulation uses obut that their interpretation of the all bit is only for their content of the header if somebody wants to use to transport or include or am command or information in metadata then we you use Orient flag the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:54",
    "text": "presence of OAM come and information following the header which is the case for active om identified through the next protocol field okay next way there are some discussion in the document on active om over MPLS that doesn\u0027t use IP UDP encapsulation because with I think a UDP encapsulation it provides you with the source identifier if you if I P underlay that natively provides a source ID but if it\u0027s non IP encapsulation with the MPLS data plane so the source ID has to be included as a separate information from there om command and data but it\u0027s it\u0027s not very specific to end your 3 ok can we go next right so that\u0027s probably not necessarily discussed now and the next slide so these are next steps I will continue working with the document our of a document on GUI to reflect discussion with Tom and I appreciate his input because he pointed to the right direction I appreciate comments questions suggestions and the last question is that what we do with this document I intended it or starting discussion probably it can have it might be used to record the discussion and reflect it publication I it might not need it so if it leaves and we can agree on how to identify om consistently and unambiguously then I will consider the document serve the purpose okay thanks Greg any any comments or questions on the draft No okay so so I guess one of the questions really is where to discuss the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:55",
    "text": "draft if it should be on the routing you know in in the mvo three-layer store or just within you know because it\u0027s only really specific to the nvo three absolutes of that realm or within the context of the routing area working group as a final comment Jeff asked that well because he was aware that I\u0027ll have presentations and there were three and then SFC working groups so he asked to summarize their discussion I think that again if somebody wants to have it in one group but it might be that the discussion should include all these groups and actually I think that because there is consideration for GUI might be we need to involve this group that works on GUI as well to make them aware of our discussion and our arguments muttering I was speaking a question to YouTube according to you where what is the consent of competencies needed for that document it\u0027s an a an vo3 meanie or owner you know I I definitely wanted to have impact on SFC I want them to think about it and to discuss it okay thanks so so given given that the the document kind of surveys the mechanisms that are in place at the moment in the various OAM and in the various overlay encapsulations and that some of those encapsulations are quite you know well advanced and of those implementations of them what do you see the value of the documents in terms of I mean do you see that I don\u0027t know if the documents going to change encapsulations or are you hoping to change encapsulation success today no again I try to make my recommendation as least intrusive as possible so for example we have probably the most advanced would be SF CMS age for an SF CMS age again we don\u0027t have much we haven\u0027t made much progress on OAM work and framework om framework is still "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:56",
    "text": "being worked on so my proposal will not require even though it\u0027s yes it\u0027s possible but again we may redefine the interpretation of a bit in an MSH header and we just then define the value for next protocol to identify active who I am so I don\u0027t think that that would be very big change and I would see it as being backward compatible but definitely it\u0027s me it\u0027s worth discussion because people might have some ideas and okay so if I could encourage folks in this working group to read the draft and probably provide feedback on the routing area into the routing area working group from an MBO three perspective I think I think that would be the way to do it okay thank you thank you Thanks okay thanks that\u0027s the last last thought we had blue sheets if you have a blue sheet could you bring them to the front please and I think that\u0027s the end of the meeting thank you "
  }
]