[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "do you want a Java scrap since you\u0027re sitting right here yeah cool and I\u0027m happy to take notes I don\u0027t think we\u0027ll have that many decisions to note so good morning everybody probably particularly good morning to Ken who\u0027s up at 5:30 a.m. over in the US welcome to the extra extra work now it\u0027s not the extra we\u0027ve only got one extra working group this is it on the Thursday morning we have here the note well updated I did actually check there are two copies of BCP 25 in there for different reasons and they\u0027re both actually I mentioned in basically 25 so I think that\u0027s actually real you obviously can\u0027t read that slide but you can easily search this seam on the Internet all right are you doing well I\u0027ve made it very very small this is the rough agenda I\u0027ve put together absolutely happy to rearrange move things around whatever people need does anyone have anything they want to add to the agenda at this point I\u0027ve already noted that Barry\u0027s proposed new draft is in there do you think five minutes will do for that excellent shall we begin I have there are only six open issues in github I closed the two regarding unique ID because I have now written a draft for unique IDs I promised and there\u0027s been a bit of backwards and forwards on that so we have issues on saved a special use something I created to put an informational document about how thesaurus replication protocol works because it\u0027s designed to replicate the IMAP data model and it might be a useful thing to have and there are a couple of issues about 64 bit or 63 bit extension I believe all of these should be covered in apart from the size replication thing there\u0027s space for each of them under their draft so we probably should speak about them then sorry I guess we do we have a separate item for the 64 bit yes okay I\u0027ll wait till then all right so these are the existing drafts that we have sitting in our queue in various state there are six of them so far and we have three more proposed coming down the way I don\u0027t have enough experience to know if that is an insanely large number to have in a working group at once or not but some of these have don\u0027t have much work left on them yeah I\u0027ll have to wear multiple hats here so with my ID hat on I think it would be nice to get one or two of you queue yeah because I suspect that list my right instead state√≠s eyes are done maybe see especially use as well yep this is Barry and I think the one I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "proposing is basically done on contact Isis I think we should leave the imap Rev for after we get a few of these off the queue before we start on them and then concentrate on that anyway definitely have a conflict of interest because I think you can probably speaking as a participant you probably can work in parallel but you don\u0027t need to be done with it all right wait all right so I now have slurred speech this so since Ken\u0027s on line are you awake enough to start talking about your ones Ken here we go all right so there\u0027s the first slide and here\u0027s Ken waiting for the slide to come up can you guys hear me okay yes hey beautiful both of my eye my eyes aren\u0027t turns are concave ago okay so I\u0027m atlas right this is very very similar to an existing RFC which does the status extended the list so all this is is a new return option for extended list which will return a my rates response for each of the existing list of all mailboxes that come back in the list response itself the benefit of this it reduces a round trip for each of the mailboxes that a client would want to get the rights law next slide please and there is a very simple example of what it would look like as the only interesting bit here is is the last mailbox bar which is not existent you obviously do not get a my rates response for non-existent mailbox that\u0027s pretty much it shell questions and this is Barry it strikes me that retrieving your rights could be an expensive operation relatively speaking is there any discussion of that in the draft I don\u0027t recall I don\u0027t recall off the top of my head either Barry I would say I don\u0027t have to take a look so I believe there is a mention of it I do not recall to what level okay because I just worry that if someone had access to ten thousand mailboxes and you did this command right it could be very expensive and it might be worth calling that out so I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "thinking about how I\u0027m going to implement it in our server and I suspect I will probably do least return my rights and specially use at the same time because that\u0027s a note that you know and this is list is very small so that\u0027s probably the mailboxes I care about and everything else I will do as as the user selects them but no I\u0027m not suggesting that this document needs to mention special use but I think it\u0027s probably worth discussing don\u0027t other comment I have is you have the M right showing an example which i think is annotation extension or something yeah yes so I think because it\u0027s not part of standard time app ICL it\u0027s an extension to it I think you should point out and in a comment saying that well in case people will try to actually analyze your example where this is coming from obvious remove it\u0027ll actually it\u0027s probably simpler that way yeah yeah that makes sense obviously this this has been implemented in the cyrus server because this is where it came from it\u0027s used certainly the reason I asked for in the first place for fast mail is that it\u0027s used to display whether a mail box is writable or not through to the UI and that\u0027s very useful to get for all the mailboxes at once so we we run my writes is very cheap in our server and we just run a select or mailboxes with my right so we can keep the display up in sync yeah I think in our implementation we in a web mail server part of our implementation we open drafts and sand folder as soon as the user logs in internally so you want the writes on these you know that\u0027s sort of again so to know whether well do you have this folder and you know what kind of writes all right so I guess next steps here African to take those two suggestions probably produce one more draft and then probably take it to working group last call after that I would think I can\u0027t say anything else that\u0027s likely to be an issue here but back to Barry\u0027s comment there is a one or two sentence paragraph that does say that if the server is unable to look up the set of Rights that the server may drop the my rights reply I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s sufficient or if you to expand on that no I was looking at advice to clients to be careful about how they use it okay fair enough did you want to well we have have a room poll for people interested in implementing it just to verify the spec house sure that seems reasonable does Chris Newman by the way I\u0027m taking notes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "sure he seemed interested in implementing this so few people in the room I don\u0027t know that only the room is going to be too valuable but who\u0027s gonna put it in a client that\u0027s the I\u0027m usually less worried about servers because you know we got a bunch of them and they all seem to want to implement everything so all right anything else on this so should we move on to the next one cool all right thank you Steve extra FS they say well we\u0027ve got a TA Ken okay this this draft essentially is a way to copy a store a copy of any outgoing messages that get generated by sip actions obviously the name SEC came from a non-standard header that some some email clients use right now that the draft stipulates that it\u0027s only compatible with vacation and notify it is specifically not compatible with reject any reject that was basically because it violates the SMT principle of either message is delivered or bounced this would break that obviously by storing a copy next I please is the next slide coming up yeah go yeah so that there\u0027s a very simple example basically the tagged argument takes a mailbox name so in this case it\u0027s added to the vacation extension next slide I did make this work with the existing file two options that make sense so those additional options would get placed in between the FCC tag and the mailbox name so in this case you could use special use create and add Flags I don\u0027t know if that is too complex for this draft but it is a flooded in Cyrus so it\u0027s certainly doable that was Barry : looks good if it didn\u0027t come through on the microphone okay thank you alexey III do have possible concerns in a sense of I\u0027m I need to double check whether save back allows basically you\u0027re sort of trying to say that you have the grammar structure that you have options to existing tagged parameters and then you are using other tag parameters names with the same syntax here and a question number one can can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "they be repeated with and without FCC in the same statement I don\u0027t know the answer to this maybe it\u0027s a stupid question and if they can whether this is actually allowed according to the serve spec so it\u0027s not a showstopper but I have a concern and I think I have a work item to double check whether this is okay or not and I would like to hear other people what they think about this this is very I\u0027m not sure what you\u0027re getting at in this case I mean these are parameters to the FCC action so I don\u0027t see that you\u0027re not using special use as an action you\u0027re using it as a parameter it\u0027s well there\u0027s no nesting of parameters done here it\u0027s there is there\u0027s the special use parameters to create parameters the flags prep yeah FCC is a parameter to vacation and then it has something yeah there\u0027s definitely a level of nesting yeah yeah I think it\u0027s okay Alexia\u0027s gonna check so I\u0027ll shut up hmm apart from that are there any other issues we should be so again I think this is probably resolve this issue and then take it to working group last call another question I\u0027m sorry I haven\u0027t read the mailing list there was a discussion about reject whether it\u0027s actually okay and I think mad commented on this I don\u0027t know what the other line was happy with the resolution that we say it can\u0027t be used for reject and nobody else wants it enough to argue against that if there\u0027s a demand for it again in the future then we could do yet another extension to allow it for reject but you know intermediate message in the thread saying that actually maybe we should be allowed because this is internal to the server anyway so I didn\u0027t read the conclusion this yeah nobody really needs it for that the thing that that we definitely wanted for a fast mail is if we send out a vacation response we want to have a copy of that if we send out a notification response we want to have a copy of it so that we have that history of everything that\u0027s been done on the user\u0027s behalf reject we do at the boundary anyway so and I think a lot of sites will be similar this is very I agree that we should not allow it and that anybody who wants to have it will implement it anyway and ignore that so I don\u0027t care I\u0027m actually I remembered another issue the way how notify framework was written was very carefully we were separating method for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:10",
    "text": "notifications from the general framework so notification methods is keyed of the UI that you are using so you can use notifications to you to generate XMPP some messaging notifications or you can use mail to to generate emails and the way the document says is it doesn\u0027t talk about this it just assumes that you can always archive now it might be a wording issue or clarifying that it only applies to when you use mail to notifications if you want to talk about sympathy notifications then you have to say much more and say what exactly does it mean yeah so Lexi you\u0027re uncomfortable with the hand waving I did saying that it\u0027s up to the server to determine how to save a copy or depending on the notified action yes you effectively you there was a deliberate decision discussing in notify framework that there are different sort of plug-ins for different types of notifications of different protocols and they will describe requirements for how messages are generated how they look like and stuff and you\u0027re deliberately your blessing over it or whether you are omitting details or you are violating this separation so I think you probably need more text either way okay if you\u0027ve got something in mind please open an issue for available either option one you just say this only applies to email notification framework and you had a reference to secondary which describe the email notifications if you to use it for other type of notifications you say you can use it for the tab notifications but then you need to add details about how what does it mean okay so I could see text that said something like if the server supports file into F say say for this type of notification then it accepts a civil script otherwise it rejects it is incompatible with FCC and if it if the server does have a way to take a copy of it then presumably that\u0027s what the user was asking for yes again using XMPP as an example if you want to allow for this even if you don\u0027t specify the exact message generated because it\u0027s going to be effective XMPP in message converted to email at least say so you know this is still better than just you know there is nothing there okay so it needs some more words for that so maybe this one we should finish that and then come back for one more check that everyone\u0027s happy before we cool all right moving on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "next one is 64-bit alexey welcome back thanks Ken so this started as a very simple draft that oh why don\u0027t we make you know message size is 64 well 63 bits and just update the grammar everywhere and then Chris and his email with lots of operational issues which I think about it is I intellibid I just haven\u0027t thought about this so I\u0027ll invite Chris to talk more about his issues okay this is Chris Nilan yeah I so one of the issues was this is an implicit format change the mailbox for implementations that assume 32-bit sizes and that\u0027s a you know that\u0027s a lot of code changes often you know in in Syrus based servers that\u0027s a new mailbox you know index format which has which can have migration issues you know I mean it\u0027s supposed to auto migrate but you know there you go does mean it\u0027s perfect so I\u0027m curious what\u0027s driving the beo before yo I\u0027m probably not interested in implementing it but I\u0027m curious what\u0027s driving this is there you know is there actual interest in implementing this for some particular class of application or something yeah they the question I saw in your stuff and I think is even more important than this because the server can implement it or not is if the server supports it and a client that uses 32-bit storage for fields that are now 64 bits the client can\u0027t really opt out because the server has data in there which it can\u0027t represent over 32 bit anymore so the client the client will fetch something that has a number that\u0027s too large for the space Astoria there\u0027s an enable so what happens to what happens to a message that\u0027s too big right well well that\u0027s the question so the coin has to obtain into syntactic extension so the server will never send 64 bit sizes to all clients the question happen is if a message is more than 4 gigabytes what should the old client get in this case and it ain\u0027t yeah tombstone or maybe responding now to the fetch command no we\u0027ll break a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:18",
    "text": "lot of clients it\u0027ll just break they\u0027ll just fuck up everything so well it can be I\u0027m tagging now but you know even in tag no I think is it really good oh I think you need to either eliminate the message which I don\u0027t like or send a tombstone that indicates it\u0027s an empty message or something at least the user will still scratch its head but there\u0027ll be an indication that there\u0027s something funny there is there really a use case for this or are we just saying why not that\u0027s a question for Lexie who needs it who wants it I don\u0027t actually have a good answer to this well I was I didn\u0027t think of this I thought it was a good source to the community to document this but I personally don\u0027t have a use case so then this is Barry I recommend that we park it and you know it can it can just be an expired draft until somebody says oh look we do need this because it\u0027s just too complicated to put out for nobody who wants it so I I see you know the question is we should probably ask does good guys and saris fast mail camp well you can talk for yourself I don\u0027t know if you have use case but we should probably a staff court because they commented i again i just you know i can ask privately or publicly saying you know is it just you think it\u0027s online from dovecot yeah and well he\u0027s packed manning across if he wants to pack man across we have no urgent need for a fast mouth we we would possibly implemented but we wouldn\u0027t be in a hurry to and we wouldn\u0027t need it Stefan did you want to comment your next anyway so it\u0027s a good time to hop in the line now yeah dovecot supports sixty four-bit internally Sean Leonard says I don\u0027t think 64-bit should be parked reason is because if the implementation tail is long at least by having the option out there all week so he\u0027s finished well maybe it was a dot dog it gives developers time to prepare okay so this is very i I don\u0027t think developers are going to be because this is sufficiently complex to put in I don\u0027t think developers are gonna stick it in just in case just because we\u0027ve published it so I don\u0027t really think that\u0027s going to give us a benefit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "Jenkins can use clarify in dovecot what they support a 64-bit is that 64-bit message sizes 64 bit you IDs or everything or what sorry okay watching for their comments to come through on jabber as long as we\u0027re talking about that I would be more willing to support 64-bit you IDs unfortunately that\u0027s that requires the same mode switch that that this does so yeah the Stephan says I don\u0027t know Jeff might list don\u0027t you dance in the room I think that\u0027s fine yeah yeah person am okay with parking it if there is no immediate use that\u0027s fine all right next up is status sighs yeah jeff says in dovecot your dates are 32-bit but message sizes are 64-bit yeah I guess Stefan appears not to have audio or speaking times all right you\u0027re honest yes so what should I say does anyone have any questions about this draft I think the second bullet is appropriate so status size is I think everyone agrees is ready to go to working group last call the one clarifying question that came up was what the size should be and I believe everyone\u0027s agreed it should be the sum of the RFC r2 to dot size of all the messages that exists in the folder which matches the example in the draft I think the drafts also says this explicitly so yeah I read the draft I think it\u0027s ready cool Chris Newman are just just vetoing I I wanted to ask how would this interact with the email address internationalization extension so what\u0027s why I ask that is once you implement email address internationalization you\u0027ve got two different classes of messages in your mail store you\u0027ve got the e a√≠ ones and the traditional ones and if you downgrade the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "√°i ones they have a different size so what did you serve a return when you asked at fire CI to two dot size so message so right the way it kind of has to work is if the server does downgrading it has to depend on whether or not enable enable the the utf-8 command has been issued by the client so the server will actually have to store two sets of sizes for the new messages so I\u0027m wondering if it would be helpful to just have a little implementation note about that so when people are doing this they can think oh wait you know maybe I should have two slots rather than one in my data format I agree on this I agree on the note the other thing that occurred to me sort of related to this is we do have metadata that we store with mailboxes if this value is used to calculate quota or inform users about quota we can possibly say that the server may return value which is bigger than the some message sizes that includes the other information in this case if you support utf-8 then you might just count both of them as you know it\u0027s metadata about happy to discuss yes this is very that\u0027s what I was going to go somewhere related to that at the white why why do we need this and so do we do we need it to be exact and if if it can be if it can be a little larger maybe so it\u0027s an estimate it cannot be smaller but if we can say that it must be at least as big right now I was just looking at the text right now it says rapid scrolled funny this must be equal to the sum of the values of the RFC 822 dot size fetch Maps data item of all the messages in the mailbox and I suggest we say this must be equal to or greater than and then explain why it might be different and then it would be happier Stefan I must say I\u0027m not too well-versed in the in the internationalization part of I\u0027m up at the moment you still haven\u0027t implemented that but I see what you\u0027re getting at I think the original reason this exists is webmail clients so those have more trouble if they want to establish how big the mailbox is so if that sum is a little larger than the actual value I think it\u0027s no problem "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:22",
    "text": "okay one other issue which I don\u0027t think yeah I don\u0027t think we need to worry about I just want to make sure people are aware that this issue is out there is that you know sometimes people yo-yo when there\u0027s a quota on usage that quota isn\u0027t restricted to just mail it covers other sorts of objects which may not be stored on the mail store and so there\u0027s actually an integration problem with our current specs where there isn\u0027t a clear way to have sort of an uber quota that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s integratable with with other services I\u0027d be tempted to set that telescope III for the spec what we\u0027re interested in is a way to avoid having to count the sizes of all the messages to know which folders are big right I did yeah just I I agree with that but just wanted to point out the issue yeah thank you this reminded me though the quarter spec is really old spec I think it doesn\u0027t even use the latest hey B\u0026F syntax it\u0027s old yes so so as a question maybe this working group wants to revise this it\u0027s rate the rise quota and I\u0027m sort of half volunteering Dave Cridland and I had a proposal like six eight years ago which expired which was trying to talk more about different Quatro routes and quote usages and other things so there is something to build on if you want to do this interesting I I\u0027d say probably let\u0027s clear a little bit of the decks first before you add another thing in but yes I must be part of rf2 right sorry about that it could also be part of it I\u0027m at four F - right let\u0027s talk about this later we have a couple of additional quota types in the Tsarist server we have a quota number of folders so because that\u0027s one resource that doesn\u0027t count towards your quota see can\u0027t create an infinite number of folders you can set a maximum and you can fetch X number olders extension we have a quota for annotation usage separately to mail usage so that the number of per message annotations and per mailbox annotations gets counted as well again so that you can\u0027t store infinite data and something that\u0027s not being counted you need limits for everything that a user can do or there\u0027s an abuse vector so for this document I suggest there is you know one or two sentences as per comment from Chris and the discussion that followed but I\u0027m I\u0027m almost tempted for you to start working group last call now and we just take it as a one working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:23",
    "text": "group Lascaux comment okay do this so that we can get this one quickly I think it\u0027s really you know in a good state excellent everybody is happy creases happy with this we\u0027ve got a working group last call with with a comment saying greater than so hint-hint chairs can send the working group last call message today yes hopefully today it\u0027s a very busy day all right next up for we\u0027ve got here Stefan save date yes well this one open issue there lets me discussed on the main this and it\u0027s what to do if we have a mailbox a text duck she doesn\u0027t actually support the save data metadata yeah to actually store it so and if you have search queries that involve that particular save date what to do and also if you have the multi mailbox search extension you can spend multiple mailboxes with your search and if one of those of a few of those don\u0027t support save date what do we do with the query right Alexi here I don\u0027t think client will cope very well if you fail such exam with an extension and there is no there is no signal coming on mailbox open that you don\u0027t support this so the client cannot actually know without trying so I suggest either make the fairly silent or the way for the select to come back with the you know I don\u0027t know no safe date or something factories that the response code or something like that and then here with naughty mailbox search you know if you just do it silent or there is a way of returning response code saying well some mailboxes didn\u0027t support this but I carried on anyway so I\u0027m not speaking for myself I\u0027m not too worried about the multi mailbox search case I think that\u0027s unlikely to be the kind of place where you would need this yes Chris Neil and I we actually implement multi-valve our search and and so my preference would be if Dell we don\u0027t have any mailboxes that don\u0027t support safety we\u0027ve got a proprietary a private extension for save date so it\u0027s good it\u0027s being standardized so I\u0027m all all good with this but if the way I would want to handle it is if a mailbox didn\u0027t support save date I treat that query term as equivalent to internal date yes so that is yeah that is that\u0027s and whether or not you get signaling of whether about a mailbox supporting save date I don\u0027t really care I don\u0027t I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:23",
    "text": "see anything useful a client can do with that signaling so I don\u0027t care if you signal or not okay I can I\u0027d like to tell you the use case where I\u0027m worried about this which is that you do an auto purge after one month on a mailbox si save dat query and if you do that against a mailbox that doesn\u0027t support save date and messages that were moved in there but we\u0027re old will disappear immediately which is not the intended behavior I actually heard from the main programmer of Java that in some cases we actually use the current dates at the moment where it becomes relevant and then it\u0027s safe to cash so there\u0027s a separate store and yeah that\u0027s you how applicable that is to other systems so the client figures that out when it first sees the message ash was that that moments the defect the second storage doesn\u0027t support it but the cache will and then it will be in the index so this is very my view of the end-user using something like this would be exactly with a multi mailbox search where show me the messages that got stuffed somewhere yesterday so multi mailbox would be an issue but I agree with Chris on how to deal with that which means that you\u0027ll you\u0027ll break that case you know but you won\u0027t find all the messages but that\u0027s the way it is yeah I I think the client needs to know whether it was broken for any of mailboxes I think that\u0027s what we\u0027re arguing because the client might potentially do something else or decide you know if this is Verge messages from the last months maybe I\u0027m not going to do this the Younger is fine because sorry Stefan did you want to finish well we had an initial proposal to return an additional response in The Selecter reply right so yeah I would indicate it\u0027s not supported or it is supported not sure which one is better but I\u0027m really happy with the amended Libre Office is crashing on me right yeah why I suppose just for completeness you could have a search term saved eight supported which would allow you to construct searches for any case that that is better than the two things I came up with yeah the part I mean I\u0027m suggesting this I\u0027m not convinced it\u0027s a good idea because if the problem I have with it is is clients tend to not do this sort of thing right in yo III I think I mean I don\u0027t consider it really a hack it\u0027s it\u0027s a it allows you to construct searches that that do what you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:26",
    "text": "want based on the presence of the extension ok can you elaborate it sorts of boolean flag so you know if you want to do if you want to construct a search where it\u0027s you know uses save date or internal date then you you you mix this flag in with boolean logic and have the search covering both or if you want to do a search that\u0027s for purging then you mix this flag in and with current date okay I\u0027ll send that to the mailing list so we can consider it okay yeah I mean I maybe I kind of like Chris\u0027s idea this is very because it solves the problem of the purge thing you can eliminate the mailboxes that don\u0027t support it from your purge it doesn\u0027t solve the problem of the use case that I had where I want to see what I added to my mail store in the last two days and I\u0027m just not gonna I\u0027m still not going to be able to know about that from them if there are some mailboxes that don\u0027t support this feature but that\u0027s okay all right so I think the conclusion here is let\u0027s take us to the mailing list this there\u0027s a favorite of discussion still to have yeah I\u0027m just thinking about the use key so from again I\u0027m making some some assumptions here but I suspect that you\u0027re probably going to support it for your personal mailboxes or none of them or for example all shared mailboxes or none of them I think so you\u0027re unlikely to not support it for trash where it\u0027s probably the most useful right so but probably we should have a text about this saying that if you choose to implement this consider this carefully I yeah I kind of wonder we\u0027re speculating on this dude is there really we really expect servers to be to support it for some mailboxes and not others in the general case and okay right different namespaces but that\u0027s different from different mailboxes in the same namespace and I my view is that I don\u0027t think any server is really gonna support it for some mailboxes in what in a given namespace and not others so I think really what we\u0027re thrashing about on something that\u0027s not going to be a problem in practice yeah so the main issue is how it behaves in the case where it\u0027s not supported and we do need to have both a well-defined answer to that and and a way to detect it yeah cool so this will go to the mailing list and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:27",
    "text": "for further discussion next up is special use it\u0027s the registry actually tickets for this draft yes no tickets one of them is a we need to create a registry of special use with IANA I don\u0027t know if someone has already taken that or what the plan was for that that\u0027s all right that\u0027s in my draft so I think we should just leave it there yeah and again we\u0027ll get to that in a minute okay so just just define me mmm come on excellent so that does this mean we wait behind Barry\u0027s draft for Cola can wait synonym swear together we can send them through together we can send this through ahead of time just have a an RFC editor note if necessary to say that it has to wait for the registry creation but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s going to be an issue because I can\u0027t see that my document is going to take any significant time to finish and I will need some time through the fixed dose came up come on the examples cool all right so we wait for another draft and then I believe it\u0027s ready to go to work and go to law school once that wordings put in there yeah excellent and that\u0027s all that counts office thank you next we have the proposed additional work and we\u0027re pretty much on time according to the agenda so let\u0027s start with special it\u0027s important okay and the first bullet is me and the second bullet is what it does the the background is that as I said in Singapore the guy from Google and I wrote this up a long time ago and it just sort of it got discussed a little bit and and sat and so I brought it back up for this working group I\u0027ve made one row of changes so there\u0027s a zero one out there now and that covers all the comments that have been made except for the elimination of spurious words a spurious word in there that is queued up for the zero-zero working group version should this working group adopted so I asked the chairs to call for objections to taking this on and then as soon as I post the 0-0 working group version I will ask the chairs to working group last call it because I think we\u0027re ready with it yep absolutely are there any objections to Neil Jenkins just be registry that we\u0027re creating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:28",
    "text": "we\u0027re going to want to reuse with came up here and might be useful for the registry actually to note when if there\u0027s something that if the if registrations apply to both I don\u0027t need to just check in your FSM I mean we won\u0027t need to say in the registry that\u0027s specific about Jim Apple I\u0027m up I\u0027m clean your things like in J map you just say you\u0027re using this registry so it\u0027s not problem I mean unless I don\u0027t think there is any special information that you need in the register do you so well for example in terms of differences in j-mac there\u0027s an inbox special use because there\u0027s not it\u0027s not a fixed name you can have a localized name unlike I\u0027m IMAP so there\u0027s no current so if you added that at special use registry would that also apply to IMAP or would that be Jamie phone me I will I will add a column to the registry for use restrictions or something like that thanks Kristen you and the other option is to put that in the Jay Maps back in the I on a consideration of the Jay Maps back where you say where you add the you modified the registry to allow use restrictions so that\u0027s a little icky because you\u0027ve in the j-man spec you register the IV inbox special the inbox special use and there\u0027s nothing an IMAP that says that doesn\u0027t apply here so I would rather have something in the registry that says that this applies to all uses of the all users of the registry unless specified here and then in the Jay map case you can say Jay map only yes I\u0027m okay with that um I was about to add to the bike shed by saying would put it out in a separate document but it\u0027s probably not necessary sir excellent so everyone\u0027s happy right we have had no objections Barry\u0027s going to upload a new draft which is going to go straight to work improve last call and we\u0027ll have a registry by next week good work team all right next is me the unique card a draft which I wrote a few days ago just a procedural thing for just to make sure everybody understands what the registry but the registry actually gets created when the ie when the iesg approves the document not when its publishes in RFC so you actually get the registry on the soon side of things excellent unique ID I wrote the first draft using names that were derived from the xgm google names everyone said funny idea why don\u0027t you make them match jamup names so I did that I\u0027ve published a draft zero one which has the matches of I map names instead of Eminem\u0027s instead there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:30",
    "text": "was debate over whether the syntax for the status response should put brackets around the value since it is not an integer it\u0027s not a simple value Aleksey it\u0027s your draft that we\u0027re messing with here for somebody who didn\u0027t get a chance to of show radio draft can give you do you have an example yes I do because I I think I need to double check status might have it item as a possible value so if you have sixty four-bit thing there it\u0027s it\u0027s still an item but so I would prefer you you reuse the syntax yes cool all right so this is draft so I wanted to ask Alexia direct question about forty four sixty six so there is a restriction in forty four 60s I raised this issue there is a restriction in 44 sixty six that says the arguments to status items are either a number or a parenthesized list in the syntax and I wanted to know why you did that was done and why you didn\u0027t just allow a string as well I don\u0027t remember yeah so I think we probably didn\u0027t have example of a string at the time okay I think I probably have an action item I think in this case yeah I\u0027m quite happy to make it parenthesis list with an a string you know that\u0027s absolutely fine it\u0027s the real question I think for me is whether there exist client implementations which would be confused by having a bear a string rather than an a string in a list because I know certainly with our fell client libraries does wound up with an extra level of indirection to either item that was sort of the reason why there was a restriction on a regular syntax so that client well coins are more likely to generate these things but if the different components is trying to parse it then it should be able to skip the stuff that doesn\u0027t understand that\u0027s why you want to put it in it garance but let me come back to you on this oh and there are on where they think it\u0027s okay syntactically so that that\u0027s one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "question about the idea the other question about the IDS which we do not have sorry crushed can\u0027t bring the slides back up here there we go again I haven\u0027t put it up on the slide for this but the other big question is the format of IDs do we allow one to 255 characters of seriously crushed again of random crap or do we limit it to a subset of characters Neil and I are discussing this over breakfast this morning said that URL safe base64 care per set seems like a sane set of characters that\u0027s a disease in capital and lowercase 0 - 9 - - and underscore that\u0027s that gives you 64 code points that you can encode your ID in allowing more efficient representation than pure hex but it\u0027s still safe for all the contexts JSON or URLs in which you\u0027re likely to see one of these things so if your client doesn\u0027t understand about escaping things properly it will still not break anything this is based on feedback from aren\u0027t from the list we\u0027re planning to do exactly the same thing with IDs and in J map as well like this seems very sane excellent I will update the text to limit it to that so work items from here for Alexi to look into the syntax for the status response for me to look into the document in the IDs so there are three things that this gives you it gives you a mailbox ID as a status response which is supposed to but not absolutely required to remain the same when you rename a mailbox so in every case there isn\u0027t a potential implementation which you can do without requiring any additional data storage you wind up with a less efficient behavior but a rename doesn\u0027t guarantee you the same mailbox ID at the far end of every name if the server has no way of storing an ID no Dinkins just keys why cuz wouldn\u0027t in that case you just not implement this extension if you can\u0027t actually provide any useful data again it\u0027s where you have different things supported by your server some mailboxes support all this some don\u0027t or is where you could do unique IDs on the messages but not the mailboxes yeah for example or any of those cases you can still generate a thing but it\u0027s not well so it\u0027s nice I think this particular extension client waters are actually probably not pretty quickly or like a lot cuz it\u0027s really useful and knowing what they can rely on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:35",
    "text": "is kind of I don\u0027t know I guess I guess and also getting something useful but it pointless if you say you implement it and then don\u0027t actually give any useful information from it yeah I used to give them an idea that they can use as a cache key again sorry so I come throughout the draft yet but maybe you want to split the capabilities into mailbox ideas and message edges I don\u0027t know the downside of that is that if you\u0027re likely to implement one another that might be around it\u0027ll be fairly rare it will it will either be all or nothing yeah one thing in particular that I was careful not to mandate was threading because that\u0027s charge learning strategies is much more complex than just storing any code if everything thank you there has been some debate over whether it should be nil or whether it should be a string value derived somehow from the mail message email ad I am in favor of nil because it gives information the argument in favor of having me having it be the same as the message ID and then you know it\u0027s the same thing Gmail responded they used the same ID for both we used to use an ID that was obviously derived it was the first n characters of the message ID and we changed it in our server deliberately so that they didn\u0027t look the same so that someone some client author looking at a message ID and a thread ID didn\u0027t say I can derive one of these from the other with some string string manipulation and we didn\u0027t want that so we now XOR it against a number that I picked out of somewhere other and hard-coded in the sauce the it doesn\u0027t matter but it just means it doesn\u0027t look the same all right so there\u0027s there\u0027s some worker there and probably a little bit more discussion of what to do it\u0027s ready on the list because we clearly didn\u0027t have consensus amongst the people have been discussing that so far so I will take that back to the list as well but you can ask whether people are happy to take it as a working group document yes because I think we\u0027re so blessed passionately discussing and because we\u0027re public here yeah all right any objections to taking it sa working group document jabba anyone give him a moment Alex he just as a participant haven\u0027t been talking about this for years so I think that\u0027s a good yes this election from Jeff and they the discussion on the mailing lists in the last few days has has been people came for it so there hasn\u0027t been anyone "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "saying no y-you don\u0027t miss excellent hey Lexie I have your slides I will pull them up now after I kill off the multiple copies of crashed libreoffice that are still running here so yes just as a side note it\u0027s very useful to to do slides when you already present it in this few years back i think it was like three or four years ago when actually presented and this one was in Absaroka group back then I always fullscreen full-screen mode and it\u0027s come back over here thanks alright maybe I\u0027ll just do it in mostly fool that\u0027s right there you go sorry Linux how does it even work math fucker over here and okay yeah I don\u0027t I\u0027m not going to go through the history of this I think I\u0027ve been working on the document for years now and three or four years and it has been 15 years since I\u0027m at full of one next slide please alright there\u0027s a question from Java from Stefan saying a red eye map for Rev too long ago wonder what if anything has changed so just depends which version you\u0027ve read but I think I\u0027m trying to summarize all changes so far in this slides so for the most part this is presentation of how I view this obviously if we take it into the working group different people have different opinions so we can tweak things but this is where I\u0027m coming from with this document so three main goals one is we have lots of useful extensions that have been deployed since I\u0027m up for f1 and that they make clients joke much easier they\u0027re relatively widespread so let\u0027s add them to the document at the same time this is not a major rewrite of I\u0027m up for f1 most of us already implement these extensions these are just minor tweaks and there should be a section just saying you know what you need to do update on the server to be compliant and the other thing is you should be able to implement both imap4 for everyone under F 2 on the same port because you use enable for Emma for f2 that serves as a switch for the server "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "this mm-hmm excuse me this is Barry should we put ID I haven\u0027t read this recently should we roll the list extensions and quota into here hey let\u0027s defer this in too late in the slide I have a slide on this here all right so next slide there are three set of changes that I was planning for this document roughly speaking additions as in adding common extensions just to the base clarifications and fixes you know updating references and then at the end the probably the most difficult bit is taking a few things away that we think is really obsolete so the first set of changes is I\u0027ve folded all the errata I had dated CLS recommendations Chris published one document on recommendations for MEA and you know that effect this document I had a separate RFC about Els or identity verification so both of these are now referenced then I added response codes and pieces of I\u0027m a PI BNF which I think was more relevant into the to this next slide now this slide is talking about various extensions that I already added I can talk each point where people can just treat volume or parties making protocol more symmetrical like adding an unselect edging your ID plus because we\u0027re you know in the I\u0027m up for f1 we have some commands which are only using message numbers some use both your IDs or message numbers and you know the way your G+ extensions that made it more complete Toby\u0027s in discussion here like whether we should be doing literal - rather than literal + fine given that that was ours today okay gives you a nice balanced usage fine then also add very common things like special use which is very popular namespace bits of list extended it\u0027s not fully integrated I think there is some work to do basic syntax and basic extensibility is there because we have so many extensions that throw and us use enable because you want to coexist with them a fateful one you search instead of search really but the syntax more compact blah-blah-blah-blah-blah few other things also our literal + I\u0027m happy to discuss literal - idle look at appendix B it should list no I\u0027m sorry sort of has to list one list is the changes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:38",
    "text": "already done and that the list is changes planned with some extensions marked is being done but I\u0027ll make it clear in the next revision next slide so future directions I would like to take this clarify a few things like booty structure and how its generated for different my messages I think them are for f1 had an extended example to which I have to refer to every time I have a problem with a client or the server on this but I think we can have more examples to actually show special cases in particular folded message with message RFC 802 because it\u0027s really special case every time then there are a few key boards that I think are in common use that I would like to add and maybe fishing is another one and junk but we can discuss order no drinking\u0027s is a reason they need to be there when they were in the registry now and we just say refer to the registry yes the reason is that well at least as far as I know there are servers that don\u0027t implement extensibility they don\u0027t implement arbitrary keywords or there are servers that have limits the one that have limits are less problematic but the one that don\u0027t implement for example Microsoft Exchange for them I think listing the one that we really care about is important so if they can upgrade easily then they can it yeah this is Barry I think in general listing the ones we think are important is useful anyway I mean saying really these are no longer extensions these are things we consider part of the base I for those of you who came in like by the way we\u0027re officially five minutes over in time but we have a half hour break before the next session so we decided we\u0027re quite happy to keep running on I see no no problem with that right and then I think the one thing which is I haven\u0027t done is we do a lot of extensions to status and also status with lists so I think probably adding this to the spec would be also good idea next slide right I know it\u0027s potentially at home or something that we might talk a lot about this is things that I think we should take out if chairs want to discuss them now or not though these things are you know you tf7 encoding for mailbox I think the world has moved to utf-8 to a large extent I think we should accept utf-8 that I\u0027m up for that one implies that you can use them but doesn\u0027t provide enough details "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:39",
    "text": "I suggest we change the same tax service can still encode them to you gf7 internally if they want to support IMAP for f1 so on the UTF seven mailbox names I the way I\u0027d lean is allow clients to express mailbox names in utf-8 in the protocol but the server must downgrade the media to UT f7 for for backwards compatibility we\u0027re trying to run both ports now if if a client does enable utf-8 they go away they go away if it but you know I know that\u0027s clunky but you\u0027re not going to break any software if you do that well because this already requires enable IMAP for f2 I think that\u0027s sort of similar to enable utf-8 and you just have utf-8 clean mailbox names and the server can store them a in modify view to f7 on the alright there\u0027s still some issues with encoding of separator if you have a mailbox name it has the separator encoded in it as modified UT f7 you still can\u0027t express that as utf-8 cleanly a good point some you know add this to the note I\u0027ll I\u0027ll have a look here I would all up for mailbox names to be a list of individuals names rather than a this is separator but this is ship um and then I\u0027m not trying to get him to this you at all but there is only one through satellite oh really that every server should implement I remind that I agree then the other thing is take out the recent flag which I think most of the people find it to be useless and it\u0027s just such a pain to implement it requires extra local mailbox if there are multiple clients accessing the same mailbox free disclosure I will you know the server I\u0027m working on just never we just ignore this through this requirement in I\u0027m up for that one I think nobody complain and the other thing is there is unseen response code and mailbox open first and seniors and authorities out I think most clients don\u0027t care and clients that care can issue such a command for this so yes and if you have a search you can ask for the first match exactly you get the same girl yeah you do men he said yeah okay no no that\u0027s too much from jabbar "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "backwards-compatibility deserves nods not fully aware of all the implementation headaches udders declare a winner definitely think that binary body encoding should be included in Homer forever to want to take the opportunity to have a BNF checked and if necessary corrected has a be enough in this draft been given much formal analysis yet that Sean Leonard I\u0027m not entirely sure what formal analysis is in this case most of the things I\u0027ve done is existing a BMF last pieces of I\u0027m a baby NFRC 44 66 it\u0027s entirely possible I\u0027ve made a mistake but this will go through three jewels so we\u0027ll have to make sure let\u0027s try to before it and I didn\u0027t understand that I mean you rat you appeared to run a couple of things together I didn\u0027t understand a bit about compatibility what he\u0027s looking for they\u0027re definitely think binary body encoding should be included in the before that there was stuff about countability okay I grated making it clean backwards compatibility also deserves a nod not fully aware of all the implementation headaches to declare a winner though that\u0027s that\u0027s okay so it\u0027s a question to Sean is Alexei his original comment that you can just you can run this in parallel with imap4 red one is that sufficient to deal with the compatibility for the moment hi okay sorry those were actually separate comments to separate separate parts my point about compatible or my point about making it clean in backwards compatibility specifically was addressing the UTS 7 vs utf-8 discussion because other people in the jabber list were chiming in about making it clean so I just wanted to clarify that\u0027s a separate thing from my other comments okay yes I recognized that it was that\u0027s why I was trying to figure out where the dividing line was cuz the whole thing is once yeah I hadn\u0027t I hadn\u0027t been aware of the earlier one at night I\u0027m saying okay thanks okay okay no problem yeah the binary body encoding and the stuff I said after about 18f are totally separate yep I agree with the binary so binary is actually one of the following slides so yeah it\u0027s bad come back well so we\u0027re getting backward compatibility there is actually a short sentence with a short section which just stop sentence they\u0027re saying it\u0027s okay but I think we probably need a bit more tax Anna and the purpose of it we need "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:43",
    "text": "to help out implementers to maybe have a list of all the things they need to che change if they want to start from Lima for f1 to bring it up to day to this so right next slide so okay I think binary I would personally like to add it to the protocol and we can ask on the mailing list and I would also like to get three devel sub because we have list extended which absorbed the whole thing it makes it\u0027s a bit easier but not talking about Elsa okay the I would have two things the eai utf-8 stuff should be part of the base and quota as an optional feature I think it\u0027s better to have it in the base rather than as an extension but but specify it as not required to be supported it needs to be with editor hat on my preference is to have a section on other recommended extensions and don\u0027t pull quote Ian because this is going to be at home I know where as in right okay and and this can a the reference to holder FC where you published or whatever gets it gets to replace it right yeah I\u0027m good if you say these these are also recommended that that\u0027s good okay a couple issues I want to raise the first one is I\u0027ll note our server implements list status and will implement list rights and will not implement list extended the reason we won\u0027t implement list extended is because it allows multiple multiple mailbox wildcards if you if you restrict this to single mailbox will do list extended I was young and ambitious at the time I think I can\u0027t I I can live with this I think it\u0027s yeah I tell you a secret with in our so we didn\u0027t implement it either so making that work you can sue dualistic standard I\u0027m at sort of to it [Music] okay well I I think these days you can just pipeline multiple requests if you really want you know listing box unless also three of these and everything in this namespace so it\u0027s actually not yeah I already have to ship so yeah I I think that should be ready reason you know reason both change yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:43",
    "text": "okay the second thing I want to consider is either mailbox names or NFC normalized or the server can change a mailbox name when you create it this is Barry I think for former what would you what change it how I would change it to if it\u0027s not if it\u0027s not NFC I change it to NFC on creation I can\u0027t do that in the I\u0027m at bass back because of the modified UTF seven ward right no I absolutely that the server needs to enforce the NFC absolutely Sean hi I don\u0027t have a lot of experience with changing mailbox names for normalization purposes but I would say that one way to analyze it is to look at how file systems do it and the advantages and pitfalls the consequences of what when they do that because some file systems don\u0027t change at all and they survive others like I think apples HFS normalized to NF D and that has different consequences so I just wanted to make that up so really I\u0027ll tell you the reason I\u0027m asking for this is apples file system leaks this crap all over the place including into you know and mailbox names and everything and add it and then when you take that and try to feed it into like a an index search system you got to normalize it and it just creates this disaster so that we have unique odd days on mailboxes now and if we defined a return of the unique ID at the time you created the mailbox you could use that to discover if anything weird it happened to it that way that would be adequate for the problem may be but the problem is if you\u0027re using systems where you might type in a mailbox name then you\u0027re and you have issues with the normalization so and the reason showing from NFC rather than an FD is simply that we\u0027ve been using NFC pretty consistently in other protocols yeah to be clear I think if you have to standardize on a normalization form using the NFC would be more appropriate because of the IETF way I\u0027m fairly certain once you have something in one normalization form such as NFD it should go or transmute to NFC okay it just means it gets recomposed although there\u0027s a lot of Unicode stop that you have to deal with I mean I hope nobody\u0027s using NF KC for anything but yeah okay that\u0027s I\u0027ll stop now however you have created an action item for Unicode a draft to have both append and create potentially return the ID it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:44",
    "text": "straight away interesting yeah yeah that\u0027s that is really interesting okay okay so Alex e as a participant I don\u0027t object to the normalization of some text about this but I need to we need to think about the text how you returned the new name to the server I would also like to possibly fold unique ID into this back I would like to fall to the document which is already specified so hopefully it will be RFC you know before we actually do this so I\u0027ll be pushing that one pretty hard yeah basic that the point is try to avoid too much experimentation with stuff yeah you know we don\u0027t want to put something there which doesn\u0027t work I want to do minimal changes yeah to there if there\u0027s a safe way to returnest as part of the create response then that shouldn\u0027t be too difficult especially now that there\u0027s no encoding issues okay I\u0027m support about adding binary the proposal to fold in all of the utf-8 stuff from AI I\u0027m not sure the mailbox name stuff from the e a√≠ spec absolutely [Music] actually the new EA I expect dropped all the username stuff so so you have to use plain if you\u0027re using a non ASCII username you have to use authenticate plain yes so yeah yeah you could deprecated login no we can\u0027t actually no I could but but it\u0027s nice to think about you can\u0027t can you enable before login I guess if you can enable this before login then you could deprecated things if you\u0027re not enabling things before our syndication I can say from our proxy architecture that would be a freaking nightmare because you don\u0027t even know which back-end you\u0027re on before he was indicated you might wind up unable de ghin once you logged in I think there might be one or two more slides just scroll down right okay I want to get to this point and the rest we can take to the mailing list about a specific puzzle were to add on so for Chris go back to the previous thing what I want the imap base if we\u0027re gonna Rev the I\u0027m at base I want the I\u0027m at base to support the ei I stuff if you have an AI message you know the EI I downgrading and all that crap that it does I yeah I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:45",
    "text": "think we need to think about I am supportive of trying to figure out how to make it at least ready for it but on bullet 2 on this slide I\u0027ll be I\u0027ll help you and clearly that means that I agree with the first one although as I said earlier I think we should not we can we can adopt it I don\u0027t think we should crank it up until we get some more of the documents off the queue well that means you and I can still work on it in the meantime right my preference is to adopt it and we just take our time and then I mean but but not deliberately trying to be too slow but just you know there is no pressure and then we\u0027ll figure out it as we go all right I\u0027m happy to call for objections to adoption at this point anybody fantastic or I will adopt the work and the agenda at this point said any other business there\u0027s nothing else so I\u0027m not going to bother changing back to the slides so I had published a draft a while ago that is expired which was the unauthenticated extension and at the time I brought it up there was no working group and and not enough interest expressed in implementing it to get it adopted by yo ad I would like this draft done because it\u0027s an it\u0027s an interim I\u0027ve implemented a private extension but it\u0027s an interoperability thing so the purpose of this is when you have a you have some sort of appliance or application that\u0027s talking to an IMAP back-end on behalf of multiple users it allows that appliance to have a connection pool and leave the connections open and switch users within the session so that you don\u0027t have to renegotiate SSL or anything like that so that\u0027s the motivation specific use cases of it are like a voicemail a ploy Smail front end for IMAP that would feed voicemails in or j-mac proxy to an IMAP server would also you know might also be interested in a connection pool it sounds like it fits in one of these earlier slides we\u0027d make a protocol more symmetrical that yeah now it you never I do not want it I don\u0027t think it belongs in I met for up to I think this is just a separate extension you implement if you had if you you put and I am the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:46",
    "text": "draft actually advises you leave it off by default yeah I I haven\u0027t I haven\u0027t read the draft I assume it it clears old enable flags and everything else that\u0027s been done as part of the honest indicate yes yes yes this is Barry with that edition I\u0027m happy with it the server I wrote has severe isolation stuff in there and I would not implement it but great I have actually implemented it so although it was experimental branch so I was never turned it on I know I haven\u0027t that sounds to me like a call for adoption are there any objections to us adopting this piece of work excellent we\u0027ll adopt your expired draft and start working on coming I this is Sean Renard I\u0027m in favor of adoption of this draft that being said yeah isn\u0027t there like a procedure supposed the list and give it three weeks or something like that or not oh absolutely I wish it wasn\u0027t an Epicure you need to double-check yes I he\u0027s our ad at the moment but might my view on on this sort of thing is that the the working group is agreeing to take a starting point it\u0027s not a big thing and if the if the working group later says now we\u0027ve thought about this event we\u0027ve talked about it it\u0027s full of shit get rid of it we can get rid of that I really don\u0027t think we need to go through a formality of making it wait two weeks but we will defer to our ad I think my point is you need to ask the questions are there any objections on the mailing lists yep I\u0027m already happy to two four chairs to optimize it adopted and there is if there is a storm of objections on the mailing list then it can be honored I think that\u0027s okay cool I will I will run a call for adoption later today and and if there are no objections we start next week yay for all of the the four things that we\u0027ve decided to adopt today making a stack now ten documents we\u0027re working on at this point unless there\u0027s anything really urgent I\u0027d like to give up this chair and allow the the next session to set up because we have run nearly half an hour over our allocated time thank you everybody Thanks cool thank you for this "
  }
]