[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "brief discussion of objectid based on basically Pete\u0027s work over the last couple of days thanks Pete that I\u0027ve thrown into the existing documents section we do have a fair bit to get through but it says anything else let me know now or we can add it to the other business at the end nobody is jumping up to say yes there\u0027s something else great here is the note well we\u0027ve seen it very many times were we have I thank you peach Peters is describing the jabber I will take down notes if I need to on anything I think they\u0027ve given me a pen so I can scribble them and I\u0027ll write up minutes at the end you\u0027ve had plenty of time to read the note well note it well at gender again my nice lights have a nun blazer that\u0027s okay sorry starting with the existing documents and starting with FCC can do you have anything you wanted to say on that yeah so cevapcici believe it\u0027s fairly close to being done there\u0027s two implementations that I\u0027m aware of ones in Syrus once an Oracle that had a couple myths on the email list he just responded within the last 10 or 15 minutes he agrees on most of the existing text is okay he has a new idea that we add a sec argument to the test notify test and possibly that the notify test capability there\u0027s two various tests in the notify extension that we could use to determine whether or not the implementation supports FCC on a particular notification method which would allow an implementation to only implement it for male twos as opposed to tells and XMPP and that kind of thing and that the the client could determine if that\u0027s possible in that side I think that\u0027s a good idea much as any objections if that\u0027s the case I\u0027ll write that up and some another draft fantastic and the plan is to go to work group last call once we get that um I said I said I don\u0027t even say knotting I said disengagement that that\u0027s good enough alright that was some nodding some yes alright specially is wrong yeah in a process that per a comment last night if the document does not mention the existing the existing implementations it might be nice if it did okay just as a general point is that something that stays in the drafts and gets removed from the final document it normally does you can always ask for it otherwise but the the standard text that the RFC that defines the implementation guide entire implementation section says has a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "boilerplate that says this will be removed and then when the RFC is published perfect thank you Ken Richardson so if I could either dead or Chris if you could send me a blurb of text that what I could put it in limitations section just go to the search the RFC so go to RFC editor dorgon\u0027s search for implementation I\u0027m aware of the format I\u0027m just whatever document has all right sorry we had special use up Stephan is not on the call but has been active on the mailing list about this assumed isn\u0027t on jabber either cool as far as I\u0027m aware this is basically finished modular units on the examples of how it would be implemented by our map so I expect this will also go to working group last call once the next round of edits come through all right save date safe that is basically ready to go to working group last call right now it was two months ago and I completely missed that have been updated so I\u0027m just going to make the call on that what so just before he gets there I did some new slides a few minutes ago but they haven\u0027t made it through in data tracker so I haven\u0027t loaded up that version of it basically the issue with object ID is that I wrote a lot of things that said should rather than must because a server might only be able to implement part of it it adds a requirement to store additional data and some atomicity requirements and so I pushed a aspect that from a client side was you couldn\u0027t necessarily trust that things would stay exactly the same people said that\u0027s a bad idea why don\u0027t you just make it must everywhere I\u0027m quite happy to do that as a spec certainly my implementation does that but I could imagine implementations that would have difficulty storing that data so Alexi what\u0027s the right path Alexi yeah we had a chat with with Pete about it and you know we don\u0027t why it should if to cope with nuclear war and you know disks burning in data center things so that one should definitely must it\u0027s more if my mailbox ID is not something that can be stored if you can solicit why why would you implement the extension yeah all right then I will change it all to must and everyone will be happy you might as well stay up there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "because you\u0027re in the next slide okay yet last master I will make that a must as well understand that one of the issue that he replied to was what if you can\u0027t do mailbox ID but you can do mess her email her email id and you know then you have no way to you can\u0027t do one without the other unless you split the capability I think I\u0027m incapable soon they were splitting capability if we really if you can really think of cases when people can do one and not the other okay and I assume threading will go with a message ID one but still it can be sort of optional well yeah we could say object object ID equals message ID an object ID equals email ID an object at a equals member yeah we sort of try to do this yeah or - I mean if there is no ideal solution let\u0027s say there you know three strings and few bytes everywhere or you know yeah this is Mary does are there actually implementations that have this difficulty or are we just speculating I think we\u0027re probably mostly just speculating I can see servers that would have difficulty implementing one and not the other I know my knowledge of the existing server implementations that are not my one I just kind of and and they might not want to do either so I mean I like lacking people explicitly saying I would have trouble implementing this unless we split it I would rather not split it I yeah I don\u0027t feel strongly the way I can so I can agree with that yeah yeah so I\u0027m going to take an executive decision as the author that I won\u0027t split it it\u0027ll be all or nothing and someone can come along with an object at a light specification that adds additional capabilities if they want to later if say if they\u0027re if you want you can make a specific last call on the mailing is asking for objections yeah that seems a reasonable just to relay Jeff from the mic he says we\u0027re not used something like the UID validity equals zero hack in other words if if it\u0027s a special value the client can\u0027t rely on it that way an implementation can have per mail ID but not persistent per mailbox ID and my reaction is yeah you could do that but then what you\u0027re basically saying is the cape you can\u0027t trust the capability to tell you that mailbox ID is or is not valid so yeah I mean the the best plan is announced what you intend to do and if what you intend to do is both of them then the object ID is sufficient if we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "really think they\u0027re gonna be implementations that can\u0027t then talk about splitting the capability yep cool all right let\u0027s move on to IMAP for Rev 2 yes most of my editing was happening around flying on airplanes so you know it\u0027s like all I have I have happened here so off to go a few things so next slide so there is actually zero one now so this is like out of date we don\u0027t need to talk about history I think everybody knows about it next slide yes it goes I just I I just love this in case people cut come later on so that they know what was sort of the fine balance we\u0027re trying to achieve keep going right so the was 0-0 posted as a working group draft now there is 0-1 with a small change the magic things I edit MD and sent and folded keywords there should support I\u0027m sort of thinking maybe we should upgrade them to must but if people say this is really going to be problematic than an hour should is okay then we had a discussion related to status equal size about 64-bit values for cumulative notebook sizes for this which is a poor Chris\u0027s suggestion we updated target example a be enough to allow for non-parent the thighs number sixty-four value so that was done I did some tidying on registering I map and I\u0027m a quest but because they are in iron registry they were never properly registered in any of our documents and there is a say yes but IMAP isn\u0027t and I mean I think that was always employed it just was never done properly so mining at that tidy up and then start a size will be at it it was a adit in zero one so next this is just to reiterate the document has actually an appendix I think with what I think should be done and where I keep track of things these are the major pending pending things I think the next one is going to be literal - as discussed this it seems to be popular with people our body structure might take a bit more effort just because it\u0027s it\u0027s well understood "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "problematic area of imap so we probably need more examples and my experience implementing nested messages and how they represent in body structure I almost always get it wrong so I have to test again the existing server before anything because you know as I map test is very good for that so definitely giving more examples showing you know how it is represented and what a pitiful saw what the good and the next slide talks about some things to be to take out I think somewhat related well okay related to the first one is Chris proposed that we add support for AI this effect several locations it supports a utf-8 encoded strings its utf-8 mailbox names and its full support of utf-8 and messages themselves so I I took Chris\u0027s offer to produce a version of the document that will get this in and then we can have a look I think it\u0027s well that that is there at home and okay so I think short answer probably login is obsolete command and probably some implementation will allow you to afraid there anyway especially if they\u0027re quoted strings so it\u0027s sort of de facto Authenticator was allowed utf-8 so it\u0027s done this is Barry I would like to quit I I haven\u0027t checked this in detail so you may have already done some of this but I would like to eliminate non extended list and non extended search yes and have only extended list an e search and of course no Elsa yes no Elsa Boozer is listed on the list but it\u0027s obvious run and then yes I I would like to that all the social sponsors are always extended similarly research being the only search commandlets it\u0027s it\u0027s the same search command it\u0027s just a just a parameter so it just getting rid of searches spot right and so I all volunteers one of the things we\u0027re doing starting with o2 is I\u0027m added to the author list and I\u0027ll take that as an action item to to do the list and search yeah Chris Newman I\u0027m asking if you know I I asked on the list if people have had experience with implementing various "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "aspects of the utf-8 support in IMAP it would be really good to get that experience fed into the list sooner rather than later so just wanted to encourage people to think about it my the reason I think it\u0027s important to deal with ei I and I met for rep two is I think there\u0027s a good you know if if it hits critical mass I think we\u0027re gonna have utf-8 headers leaking all over the place and when that happens I think if we do the work now to make it so that clients won\u0027t be surprised unpleasantly I think that\u0027ll be better for for the clients in the interest sure here all right I guess for that one\u0027s probably was asking if s Perry says mo wants to die on the hill of saying we don\u0027t want to do this is everyone happy with pushing AI as part of rev - yeah that\u0027s Barry I\u0027ll just say by way of support for that in general this is where we want to go forward from for a while anyone who implements this is going to also support standard IMAP and you know in a transition period but I\u0027m hoping that eventually we\u0027ll be able to get rid of the standard IMAP and and move toward this and this needs to be future proof as much as we can yeah personally I\u0027m in support of this but I think it probably was to do the usual stuff and try to reach out to people not particularly active on the mailing list to see if if you know it\u0027s going to cause any problems for them and then they can come come here and explain yes what\u0027s the disclaimer that I can that I can is currently paying me to flog eai I have I\u0027ve talked to some vent then it\u0027s like courier I took I dared mr. courier to and I\u0027m a potaters went back and said well here\u0027s the first draft so I think they\u0027re at it\u0027s actually it\u0027s an ain\u0027t that hard when you do it so I think it\u0027s actually doable cool um one other thing I wanted to add said early discussion of stuff I\u0027d like to see in Rev - vanished response rather than the removal of I was one expunged one expunged right there was one thing that Braun and I talked about earlier we should also remove the expunged response and only use vanished then it the question is do you want to pull in the rest of conditional quick racing stuff in and I yeah I\u0027m okay with that well the problem is it just changed the logic in your client significantly I just had bugs I had to rewrite it so time I got it right third time but I know it changes logic and you\u0027re fine sure but but just the vanished response "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:12",
    "text": "is I there\u0027s I also know a lot of people who had trouble correctly implementing the expunged route handling of expunged responses and clients because of quirky that is so that the vanished response is just so much easier to deal with on both sides and I believe the vanished response is independent of the rest of the quick racing stuff so I would also add one more thing to that which is that the unsolicited response when Flags changed should include the UID which it currently you can\u0027t for really old clients but right it\u0027s actually one again it\u0027s one of the things on to-do list as a question mark so please emphasizes yeah is I would think he notes of this getting severity no you know right so I think yeah I didn\u0027t banish and your ID responses on unsolicited responses is a good idea yeah I\u0027m figuring what the general statement of that is that we are just using you IDs whenever we can in this new version and trying to minimize the use or the requirement to use message numbers yes this is Ken berry had mentioned going with lists extended nominally in a previous slide you had talked about combining list and status are we talking about some of the lists extended list extensions as well oh hopefully so extended list is already in the document the base extended list - the multiple list pattern that nobody likes given me but there is only one extension at the moment implicitly is this it actually so lift my status in the West here is something which is again on the suggested list if people think it\u0027s a good idea now what I probably advocate for list my rights as well the only reason for not to maybe do that as that it could be expensive well okay so um there are people who like okay there are people who likes I\u0027m up a CEO RFC and the people who don\u0027t and for people who don\u0027t this is going to be annoying so it\u0027s not as as nice and clear cut as it could have been or you know so yeah I sort of not against my my rights but I think it falls into the category of I\u0027m not entirely sure we also discussed have a section about recommended other extensions that it would be nice to implement even though "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:12",
    "text": "they\u0027re not part of the base spec so maybe maybe that\u0027s one might be fun yeah and I\u0027ll take back my it could be expensive is if the client asks for it the client wants it and you need to do it but so yeah I\u0027ll go with the put it in as not a requirement but a recommended extension I\u0027m fine with that add binary with the start to skip forward to the next slide we\u0027re nearly at the end of the time we allocated for this so yeah yeah so I have implemented binary both client and server side I find it useful I would like to see to hear what other people have to say I have not implemented binary on Han because it\u0027s hard on the server yes okay how about we\u0027ll discuss this on the mailing list and we\u0027ll see what you know again I\u0027m not even sure whether it qualifies for recommended others who want to do but I want to see more discussion of where where people think it is it makes client implementations easier but you know say again you\u0027re right some component needs to downgrade it it you know in this case it will have to be I\u0027m observer that has to downgrade it to you know from binary to yes we have implemented binary fetch and I\u0027d have no objection to including binary fetch but binary append is a different matter interesting that that might actually be a potential Happy House halfway point so yeah let\u0027s let\u0027s discuss on the mailing list all right and then we had the slide and past changes and so it\u0027s so good oh good alright thanks Lexi I should kept this open a separate file and no all right proposed new documents the first one was I\u0027m at replace Stewart can\u0027t make it to this he said I don\u0027t think he\u0027s appeared there no but he said it as far as he\u0027s concerned it\u0027s pretty much ready to go and the discussion on the mailing lists in fairly complete I don\u0027t remember whether we had resolved the question of my that I think did peep are you the one who brought it up somebody brought up replace versus an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "addition to the append communis we had resolved that we are not we\u0027re going with the separate replace command yes that that was resolved okay so I expect to do a call for adoption right here in the room do we believe that this is work that we expect followed by taking that to the Maryland area director red flag you know you cannot say that you can pull the room whether people here think it\u0027s a good idea but you still need to write Afghan I\u0027m an investor yep yeah all right and then I expect it will go to working group last call fairly quickly if adopted cool next up is the fetch snippet there\u0027s a whole separate set of slides for this I don\u0027t know if someone is going to be speaking to them or not though huh that\u0027ll be a yes all right I\u0027ll bring up your slides and let\u0027s go I strain I know hi Michael mmm we can\u0027t he know is the answer to that it just asked on Java I have pushed his button we can I mean they\u0027re very pretty slides so major curses can\u0027t see here Michael let\u0027s do that oh I\u0027ve hit the button yes for four people new we have a new remote access thing which is has comes with a big red button mmm you push it once to add people to the hue you push it once to eject them so it\u0027s you know all right you want to try and enter again Marco have people in the room read through the slides already no all right well now but we might have enough opinion maybe if it\u0027s informed opinion edit now would you like to just how many slides are there eight I think so just flips yes slowly through them all right oh let\u0027s try here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "we go has joined the queue again and how about hello yeah let\u0027s let\u0027s turn off the video you don\u0027t need to see me okay wait for 15 seconds and then start speaking that used to help riously how about that\u0027s not that all right apologies everyone try a long time lurker nice to be able to actually talk and see some of the faces of people I\u0027ve chatted with on the mailing list real quickly I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know how how deeply I need to get into this snippets details I think everybody in this room I think you can start on slide 3 the issues because we all know the goals from both 8th and clients I this is an expensive operation as you generate these snippets I have object storage vendors that worry about clients that do this kind of activity without any sort of snippet availability and so that\u0027s one of that was one of the right yeah it\u0027s already commented anyway so this is the it\u0027s expensive to calculate the little bit that displays on the screen is the basic summary of the problem statement and the solution is to have the server generate something dovecot has an implementation already and it extends the IMAP fetch command with a snippet which can be there\u0027s one algorithm which is fuzzy and there\u0027s a modifier lazy which says only return it if it\u0027s easy and cheap okay you already have a cache one we have implemented fuzzy I strongly support advancing this in adopting this Sarris our map also has an implementation that drives our map preview and there\u0027s a beautiful example yeah my recollection of the male English discussion that people were generally supportive so again awesome okay so I\u0027m gonna spend my entire five minutes like to go get some difficulties we\u0027ve I\u0027ve talked to a couple of your slides and everyone said yes this sounds great so far yeah I think it\u0027s I think the issues that have come up so far I\u0027ve really been more minor bronze mostly been using some of the mapping between the snippet the some of the boundaries that we have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "put into the initial draft and what you\u0027re doing and say like J map are a little bit off but I think that\u0027s something that we can resolve yeah yeah going forward but other than that I try to keep this as simple as possible and somewhat extensible I mean the idea being there is a possible use case for us using IMAP as a voicemail system there would be a separate snippet extension for transcriptions for example so that would be the way that we could retrieve a transcription for a particular voicemail message instead of trying to do some sort of metadata thing so that\u0027s why it was made fairly extensible I don\u0027t know the thoughts of the people in the room whether that\u0027s a good idea or it makes sense to kind of make this a little more extensible rather than just making it a single snippet a single area I think that\u0027s kind of a cool one I having being unsure I\u0027d have to go back and read it but the way I would like to see lazy work is that you don\u0027t necessarily get the untagged response with the lazy snippet immediately you might get it ten minutes later or something does that is that interesting to anyone that it sort of says when you get around to computing a lazy snippet send it to me whenever that may be does that sound interesting to anyone I think I\u0027m called complexity alert basically on the grind side you know not oh no sir I understand that the point on the client side is that clients in general should be able to accept untagged responses from the server at any time so it ought to work Chris Newman responding to your question Barry the my problem with that proposal is I don\u0027t believe the server has enough context to know which of the responses to prioritize to return I don\u0027t believe that sort of delayed response would be useful until we start doing something about you know doing it unless we first do a client State on the server extension so that the server actually knows what the clients interested in is that a cue it\u0027s kind of a kind of a jumble of standing people okay this is John Levine it feel feel feel free to tell me that I have nuts but but particularly from commercial mailers I get a lot of mail we\u0027re kind of the Chrome and the picture is more is more important than the text and I\u0027m wondering if there\u0027s any thought about how you could send you a send a snippet that might be something other than text or how the server would even know which which is the important bit well presumably if this is popular enough you could yeah commercial mail or commercial mailers will do whatever you tell them to do to make this stuff show up so if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "you can say you know put this snippet thing in to give us a hint they\u0027ll outlive all implement it in milliseconds this is can a comment open question regarding the transcoding of voicemails Oh II overloading snippet at that point there is an existing convert extension for transcoding one if that it wouldn\u0027t be better placed there I\u0027m just as a time issue with publishing spend too long black shedding this we can go to ask on the mailing list if there are objections to adopting this and then we can hash this stuff out yeah I expect this one will take a little longer to get to a funny is one two second this I think there is enough interest to work on this but it might not look like quite like snippet at the moment they answer not trying to prejudge it but we\u0027ll you know well just customer meaning this cool all right Michael anything else it\u0027s gone alright thank you Michael and next we\u0027re going to jump straight to client ID because that\u0027s the next thing on my slides you can use the microphone up the front if you want as well that\u0027s the present a microphone you get your slides and thank everybody in oops because of the year time constraints from the scheduling and everything else we do have asked that to everybody read through this slides ahead of time and hopefully everybody has done it and just to get you an idea that we know what we\u0027ve spend an awful lot of time as I said we produce a product called magic mill we\u0027ve spent the last two years working on solving some industry solutions and what this has resulted in the request that this becomes set as a standard and the what we\u0027re trying to do is we\u0027re trying to provide a mechanism in the real world right now we have a lot of poems with email compromises databases being compromised brute-force attacks were the legacy the idea of having the username and password you know where it traditionally it would represent that only you are the person who would have those authentication credentials in the real world today there is no assertion that you are the one that is actually presenting those authentication credentials and while the holy grail that we all would love to have is that you know we could uniquely determine that it is actually you using your authentication credentials we\u0027re not at that stage two-factor authentication has been tempted in many different ways a lot of times it\u0027s very difficult for adoption there is concerns with some of the proposals using third-party authentication factors that has really resulted in the situation where we have an industry that really hasn\u0027t been able to move towards any type of a solution to correct this and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:18",
    "text": "you know since we work with so many ISPs and telcos that are using your product where you see a lot of real world examples and after two years of looking at this problem you know we\u0027re considering the fact that we need a new method that is easily adoptable by the industry and so what we\u0027ve determined is that what we\u0027d like to do is we\u0027d like to make sure that IMAP supports the concept of being able to present a client ID as part of the transaction and that way that the IMAP protocol itself can use that to help me determine that be used for it\u0027s deterministic definitions of whether somebody should be able to present the authentication credentials at all now if you read all the slides of whole bunch of background arguments but since we only have 15 minutes are going to cut it real short and ask does anybody have any questions straight out about the concept and the reasoning behind why we think the ability to lock your mailbox that only your devices or class of devices can I can even present authentication credentials this is Barry I personally would hate that because I never know what when I might need to use some other client to log in so I do not want to lock it to a client although there\u0027s always going to be as when we\u0027re talking about adoption the whole point of this is right now ISPs are afraid to do anything Universal they wouldn\u0027t want to lock everybody\u0027s mailboxes to predefined boxes because of course that would be difficult but we already have solutions for that in the sense if you forgot your password you know the or you want to add a new device or you want to change which you know you buy a new iPad or and I\u0027d buy a new iPhone mechanisms are really a be able to be provided that that you can either easily I either unlock your account or use a mechanism to do this but we\u0027re not saying that it has to be done by everybody about presenting this we allow that we can now instead of having to sit there and say that this is a server wide policy we can to find it so that the people who do want to log in only from their four devices and never you know only change it once year have the capability to do so it is generally not the users choice it\u0027s generally inflicted on the user and I test it of course and but we were saying that you know that is a vendor that would be a vendor responsibility but right there there are things that you have to understand the ISPs and telcos don\u0027t inflict anything that\u0027s why they still allow things like plaintext passwords you know over non encrypted connections when we all as an industry I would say that yes probably one of the best things we could do is inflict site TLS for all customers it\u0027s a different version of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:18",
    "text": "inflict I would prefer that we spend our efforts on better authentication mechanisms that don\u0027t involve sending passwords over the wire and not put our efforts into this kind of lock whatever but can can we get to the meat of it rather than the now you have slides explaining what exactly you want well the actual draft is online have you had the chance to review the draft I have not yet that\u0027s why I\u0027m looking for more of an explanation yeah bro I\u0027m just gonna interject with one thing here to answer your point there a bit buried that a lot of suddenly in the web space a lot of systems check restore a cookie on the machine to be able to detect that it\u0027s the same machine and this is my reading of it just this is something fairly similar it\u0027s often for example Google will detect that you\u0027re logging in from somewhere unexpected and put an additional password request or exactly a second fact it sort of stuff that I object to it\u0027s partly because I just don\u0027t like the interface partly because I think it by keeping a record of the client and what the client has done I think we have privacy leak potential in that sort of thing so I the security area will have questions about this as we proceed so actually she would get to the is this the right slide for description of how it works so should sorry most of the slides were based on the IQ running background to understand how the industry is going to use it which is right because of the shortened time constraint we\u0027d ask that everybody please review it so we\u0027re prepared to actually discuss the implementation and said in purposes I\u0027m afraid if you need to sit there and spend more time running I can actually be glad to sit there and talk more in a you know way if we had given more a space to do it but I want to understand that what I\u0027m looking for is that the group actually consider this for a discussion Sean Leonard so I just I just want to clarify when the CID doesn\u0027t have a match because the users on a different device or different environment what exactly is a fallback mechanism you\u0027re proposing because you alluded to the industry has ways of dealing with that and the most common way is you get a password reset request by email but we\u0027re talking about accessing your email inbox so that doesn\u0027t make any sense no actually as you know are the same thing would happen as a forgot password there is whatever mechanisms that are generally you know conceived therefore places that are using forgot passwords there are mechanisms to deal with this but what the important aspect is that the SID as we said it\u0027s not an authentication this is an access control layer and what we\u0027re trying to do is provide that IMAP actually has the ability whether it\u0027s by a server base or a domain base or even by a user base to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:18",
    "text": "be able to start implementing access control levels we already do it by IP by country by ACLs or we\u0027re wanting to do it is we want to be able to provide a device such that of course they\u0027re in an implementer can design it such that if an unrecognized device were to attempt to access your mail account you at least now can have alert we\u0027re not all googles and we\u0027re not all apples and Microsoft\u0027s what we need is something that is a bit Curtis throughout the IMAP server world so that everybody would have this capability if they choose to leverage it so I guess I just echo their Barry\u0027s concerns that this may make IMAP and do you know the protocols just less useful and and less user-friendly I would say if we want to do that we could just use OAuth and I\u0027m a solid just a follow up when we\u0027re doing this is again are not an absolute that it\u0027s going to be an on/off switch and that should be very clear ok so I have Chris Newman I have read the proposal I\u0027m I I think there is actually a problem here that we could you know that could use attention for executives authentication and authorization mechanisms the IETF has produced are serving the industry needs you know we are getting to the point where a number of providers Google included if you implement a standards compliant client it cannot authenticate it or interoperate with Gmail it cannot you have to write a custom authentication mechanism to talk to them so that would oh yeah or you generate a uh or you generate a client specific password using a mechanism which is just another way of correlating individual clients which yeah right yep so I think they\u0027re I think there\u0027s there I think there is a problem that needs attention I I\u0027m not particularly fond of this particular proposal I mean my first question is why Mitch syntax changes to three to five different protocols you know in my case its SMTP pop IMAP managed they have an MT QP we all implement when you can make one syntax change to one protocol and solve the problem and that would be SAS all you know so to me this model is change set hostile to products that implement more than one protocol which is actually most mail clients and servers implement more than one protocol I also why is it a separate command rather when it can be part of the authentication command it adds roundtrip to all clients that don\u0027t pipeline I think people are concerned about round trips so that\u0027s problem I have this Sasol is less prone to data leakage than general protocol commands since it\u0027s already authorized agent authentication related it gets auditing priority for data leakage and privacy issues best to keep this data together in the part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:19",
    "text": "the perfect protocol designed to contain this information and then the other question I have is how does this promote interoperability if I\u0027m pulling a client from one vendor and a server from another vendor they\u0027ll only interoperate if the semantics of a given client ID attribute are provided and the set of mandatory to implement attributes are consistent between the two implementations so where is the technical information to get that interoperability so you know my counterproposal would be define a family of client ID satchel mechanisms that have a uniform syntax ensure an attribute name registry and then the name of the mechanism determines the mandatory set of attributes so that allows you to interoperate thank you very much there\u0027s really good arguments and it\u0027s something we\u0027ve also very looked at very deeply as I mentioned we\u0027ve spent two years start looking at various implementations at it and it really quickly came to us that your look at City it is not on a third part of an authentication mechanism is independent it\u0027s an access control layer and the SMTP protocol ZUP of themselves are the ones that are usually responsible for access control this is saying whether you know or this is giving an access control layer which enables by a ready rule set that the vendor would decide to implement rubber authentication is accessible right and it was not actually another that ocation mechanism having said that there are some very good points that you would address that that should be actually discussed as part and there\u0027s another reason why i\u0027d like to bring it into the argument there are some areas there that you did discuss as far as cid and said type and we\u0027ve intentionally let those slightly vague ins already have had some great suggestions on some extra language that if this was adopted we could include in this draft um relaying from the jabber room for ned freed and it says there\u0027s a big difference between asking for additional verification when switching clients and restricting users to a subset of clients the first I can live with the second not so much so and I think we\u0027ve heard similar and actually that\u0027s why we call it looks joking like two and a half factor the SID presenting a device ID or a device type it has a lot farther than reaching aspects when we talk about being able to provide for an ACL there was no mechanism at this point to provide that device or class devices are able to connect as under for instance theoretical implementation an apple server could say I hate only Apple clients can connect and if you don\u0027t present a Sid type of an apple license ID for instance we don\u0027t want to allow you so the city is a part of an ACL mechanism that can be leveraged by many different methods including sass holes other race yells and the ability it allow me what we really want to do is to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:19",
    "text": "allow vendors to be a blur passing a user\u0027s choice right to the protocol in the ACLs in the the access control layers sitting from the chair I\u0027m going to say to the whole room what one of the things that I said to you yesterday was that I suggested that this client IDs a client-side cookie it\u0027s worth looking at how u2f has handled different host names getting different cookies so they can\u0027t correlate the same client between each other and that\u0027s that\u0027s another area to look at in here and that\u0027s a very good question and maybe at some future time somebody would consider that you know the old concept of Sid and said types might be actually fleshed out where better definitions of the use of a specific Sid type or recommendations to people who may be implementing it on client side you know when they when you ask them to determine their own client type and on client ID is that they have they take extra considerations and it should be noted of course that you know as far as we\u0027re concerned that the SID information should only be presented across secured layers Aleksey I guess this is where I bring the question to you do you believe that this is within scope for this group as our area director this work I think the answer is it depends if it\u0027s a purely I\u0027m up extensions and people want to work on this then it will be in scope right because the chart is very open-ended if people want prefer Chris\u0027s variant of doing its Russell framework then I I need to talk to other area directors because there is a standing working group for social work which is kitchen and again I like to argue that this that our proposal is specifically not to make this as a sole issue that this is a access control layer issue that belongs in the IMAP protocol yeah I think my feeling of the Roma is that you need to convince people that\u0027s true I\u0027m not sure everybody buys into this interpretation I think people agreeing that there is something to possibly work here work on here but you know whether it\u0027s part of authentication authorization access control I think that might be more in a gray area I think we need more discussion of this yeah this is Barry I don\u0027t buy that it\u0027s access control because we\u0027ve we have no precedent for having access control to the authenticate command its access control to resources once you are a lot once you\u0027re authenticated you\u0027re you are providing this has access control for me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:20",
    "text": "to be able to access the authenticate command and though I don\u0027t buy that but I love is that it\u0027s successful beyond that as far as it is two and a half back of one of the components is presenting whether it should be allowed to communicate to an access mechanism there are many legacy my mechanisms were off that simply return a true or false that have no capabilities to do more than that this would actually support so that you could use that if you choose but it can also be used for a lot of other access control layers ie as I just presented you could restrict an access to and I maps mechanisms solely by the said type that was presented or the device type so again relaying for ned freed he asks what about submit for instance and how does this interact with j map and to clarify one of his earlier comments was it\u0027s not just for a map it has to at least cover submit as a matter of fact one of the rio we\u0027ve already rolled out a draft for submission and you can so see a reference to this SMTP submission is one of the of course greatest uses of bots tax dictionary attacks reuse passwords brute force in dictionary and so it immediately gives us a lot of value in that area which is why we spent two years investing so so I had just an understand your answer so you\u0027re saying this is not IMAP specific it also can apply to other protocols like SMTP submit if I would phrase that the use of it of a client identifier could be used in theory act for any type of access but it is not specific to an authentication okay and just to add one little thing this is Pete speaking not mad anymore I noticed that you do you\u0027ve adopted this use of CID which I just want to dissuade you from using long term because of course for a lot of IMAP people and SMTP people CID is content ID which gets used in your eyes and all sorts of other places and you\u0027re going to end up with some confusion but just just a third acronym overload is but but that\u0027s a very minor issue yeah and then we accept that but if we get adopted by working conversations like that about what the best name and then title I mean even in our implementation we could quickly you know change the advertised value I agree with net that if it\u0027s worth doing at all we got to do it across pop IMAP and submit and if we\u0027re going to do it in all three of them the way the IETF works really has to go in this asshole because they should because that\u0027s that\u0027s where that is where they share all that occasion schemes we sorry doing it through sasol is not is not a death "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:20",
    "text": "sentence mean noose asshole methods do occasionally appear but we\u0027ll have to talk about the industry under and about the ISP adoption and everything else we can implement noose assholes etc but introducing these things as from the ISP level as I said we were a problem in the industry of adopting these new better technologies adopting better authentication and then no you know we talked about you know the difficulty of engineers in the environment to actually you know implement these things and restrict it globally what we\u0027re looking for is an avenue that would be conducive to be able to offer individuals that strong mobility to make sure that the only person who can use their authentication credentials of any type of any normal right can be limited to the devices that they own and this is Barry I\u0027ll repeat that that\u0027s marketing that\u0027s not the way it\u0027s going to work if this is rolled out and that\u0027s what bothers me so I agree with John that if it\u0027s done it should be done through Sasol I would and I\u0027ll repeat what I said before that I would much rather see us spend our effort on better authentication mechanisms and not putting the client identification into the authentication process I think that\u0027s wrong and I have no argument that maybe both of these never should be done separately but we have a way to sit there immediately solve in the industry pain points that are easily adoptable and I\u0027d like to sit there and ask everybody to have an open mind that maybe both methods should be considered because I\u0027d be a strong supporter of you know any type of improved authentication mechanisms however this is not strictly at the vacation and I want to make sure that that\u0027s clear there\u0027s a lot of other purposes that this is meant to solve Chris Newman just as a data point on the deployability question if a customer came to me and said I want to add a command to five of your notice just 2 or 2 to 5 of your protocols I would you know the answer would be no if they said I want to plug in a different satchel mechanism that does what I need the answer is here is the SDK have at it so in terms of deployability sasol mechanism from my perspective way way more deployable unless i have a shared library so i additionally if i wanted it I\u0027d implement it in the library and all my customers have it like that from an engineering perspective you have you know an absolutely excellent argument but as I said we\u0027re still in the world were even though we have much better authentications there\u0027s still a lot of eyes bees that are still allowing plaintext passwords over 90 LS connection connections we\u0027re talking about that type of adoptability certainly sorry about that this is Peter I was like I think you\u0027re getting wrapped around a weird axle here the use of sasol is a syntactic choice right that that it is called sessile that it has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:20",
    "text": "the word authentication in it is absolutely irrelevant what\u0027s being claimed here I think by folks in the room is if you want to do client ID as some sort of pre other kind of authentication be it passwords being whatever it is if you want to do client ID as something that you do to first talk to the server it can be done syntactically using the sasso mechanisms and then if you want to go on to use plaintext passwords or you want to use TLS protected or you want to use whatever you want to use that what you want to do is move this out of the IMAP discussion and make it a separate piece of syntax that can be used across different protocols whether it\u0027s SMTP whether it\u0027s IMAP whether it\u0027s anybody else who uses and Sasol happens to be the one that we can plug into different protocol just the time check we have two minutes left oh yeah I\u0027d like to sit there and propose that we actually bring this into the working group so that we can have these time to the sessions and actually with something very interesting is by by bringing this into as you mentioned me bringing this in as in India IMAP what it could do is it could preface that if this was now made available say for instance assassin Mac and mechanism may be able to prove out the definition so that it could be used and deployed much more easily amongst all protocols but as I said well and the only caveat there is now if this becomes something that the IETF feels like is going to go eventually across protocols you\u0027re gonna have the isg I think it\u0027ll actually can speak to it specifically saying wait a minute we don\u0027t want just the IMAP folks to work on this maybe it\u0027s going to be that set of folks who do the proof of concept but we don\u0027t want that we would want a chartering to indicate that you\u0027re specifically working on this so that everybody knows and other security folks can come in and comment on it but you continue I like just adding to that I have no objection to having the working group continue to discuss this on the mailing list I object to having them to having us make this document a working group product at this stage but that doesn\u0027t mean we can\u0027t continue discussing it on the mailing list and I\u0027m happy to do that when I\u0027d like to sit through those there\u0027s also a lot of other vendors that I\u0027ve been talking about who also recognize the capabilities about having these type of capabilities in the protocol themselves independent of you know any type or any form of sasso that might be used or any other authentication because there are a lot of other authentications that are out the wild that are nots acyl what I would like to sit there and bring it open to the group so that we can maybe bring it bring other arguments about why this should be IMAP specific and we can also talk about sasso should also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:21",
    "text": "examine a parallel similar type of method because I have talked to several other vendors who may not be about you know here in this session that have also expressed interest that they could see the benefits of this type of thing being available you know IMAP clients thank you all right we\u0027ll leave this for now we have we\u0027re basically at the end of our time the last thing we had here was other business I put two potential things to talk about there whether the junk not junk dollar phishing keywords are sufficient for reporting spam via IMAP or whether we want to start any work on a better way of clients informing servers and servers informing clients of mail that is is not good this is burying has anyone proposed such a thing no not yet that good and I all right and we can discuss anything on the mailing list and please just come to the microphone and say that so that the people are okay so is something just something that you know we\u0027ve talked amongst a lot of our vendors and a lot there one thing is that we do not have the ability for clients universally to have a method of other that is supported by all clients or a concept that says allow senator block Center in a web mil I would really like to be able to you know enhance this conversation so that maybe it could be a universal method that everybody could support so this is a great opener for that conversation all right we\u0027ll definitely take that to the mailing list the final item here was the creative mods sake stuff that I proposed an initial draft for this but we soon realized that you had to have a concept of a global mod seek across the entire account so a single counter across all folders is this something anyone else is interested in or should I just leave this as a cyrus internal not seeing Alexi speaking as individual I think we probably should continue discussing this they might not everybody implementing what Zeke would want to implement this but there might be enough interest to you know Chris Newman I\u0027ll second back as my me it was a response to your question was I want to think about the sabor all right thanks everybody that is at time is there anything else anyone wants to talk about right now very very quickly all right thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:33",
    "text": "addressed or microphones oh no I wish it come right on yeah "
  }
]