[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "which button this button yeah yeah well time okay should I start [Music] good morning can all take our seats if we can all take our seats please Tom we\u0027re starting welcome to six-man I\u0027m Bob Hinton\u0027s is Olli thrown we have a session this morning and also well let\u0027s see so here\u0027s the note well you should all have this memorized and tattooed on your arm we Barbara is taking notes we still need a jabber scribe Oh second note-taker good but we still need a jabber scrab does jabber still work Eric thank you so we have two sessions we did our usual thing of giving priority to working group graphs and then active graphs and so we did this generally the working group graphs getting discussed today and starting to do active drafts on Friday morning oops and as you can see so we have a lot of short talks in the end of Friday we also have a follow-on session for the segment routing discussion the plan is that the authors are going to be working with people during this week and then bring hopefully getting the document so we can do another working group last call on Friday I think that that would we would hope we would like to see this document be completed and move forward and we also received a number of the general requests that we didn\u0027t have time to schedule and so we\u0027re listing them here and in the online agenda you know it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:14",
    "text": "encouraged the authors to raise their talk about the grass on the list but you can also see them here and you know feel free to read and comment and alternately okay so what have we done on documents since the last idea we got to published RFC\u0027s that\u0027s the IP six no requirements 85 over four and it got the historical original simple IP protocol specification published as well as RFC eighty 507 I encourage everyone to read that one to see what the initial plan was for this project call we have nothing in the RFC editor cube we have two documents in working group last call they\u0027ve been there for a while the segment routing documents since March 2018 is that what\u0027s the date today also by the end of this week that will be in working group last call for a year that\u0027s probably a record and then the reader advertisement v6 only flag since September 2018 both of those are on the agenda today hopefully we can close these documents out and get them advance we have three working group documents it\u0027s the ICMP limits document spoke to Tom and he\u0027s going to refresh that one this week I believe there was just expired we have the privacy extensions document the base document for that that\u0027s on the agenda to talk on that one and then we have the prof sixty-four document that was just adopted that\u0027s also on the agenda alright so that was all for document status any comments on that so there is an ongoing effort in the ITF to look at tooling and how to do document production more efficiently or differently there\u0027s one ongoing experiment and some working groups using github for documents and and we would like to look at that in six-man as well or at least initiate that discussion on doing that here in six man it is clearly some great things about you know doing a a source control management system for documents you get sort of the same benefits that you do for source code right you get much better revision control you get you know at least we think you might get much more focus on editing the documents and changes in their documents they would you know repairs pull requests if you ended up doing missing each tab as opposed to sort of the meta discussions we have there are lots of discussions on a mailing list lots of responsibility for the author to try to distill that into an actual document change well if we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:15",
    "text": "were doing this we think it would be easier at least to do a much more collaborative process of course some of the downsides would be that you know perhaps the discussions wouldn\u0027t you know be on the open on a mailing list anymore they would end up as as are the comments on pull requests on github which is you know - we don\u0027t control and might not be visible for for everyone but it\u0027s in write and github is currently not accessible with ipv6 yeah so so yes let\u0027s discuss this so Eric here the comment comment from Suresh which is as you know remove this we is supportive absolutely of this approach as long as participants are not blocked by using YouTube right right yes I think we have to I suggest we do this as an experiment obviously authors will get to choose this themselves so I put one of my drafts up there and we started using it Eric has posted a few pull requests that which I think worked well I if you did anyone attend yesterday\u0027s session on github tools there was one tutorial there on Sunday there\u0027s also a Thursday working group is it a working group at least there is a session yeah Andy I have integration and tooling there\u0027s a couple of drafts here worth reading as well and the quick working group I think has done taking this the furthest and they have you know CI tools and they verify the XML and everything sort of builds automatically if you if you push and you draft and you could sort of imagine that you could also push drafts in the future directly to the IDF or submit the draft to the idea website if you if you wanted to so it becomes a you know a new tool chain but at least for what I\u0027ve seen just getting a different way of dealing with document edits is an interesting interesting try any more comments on doing it up ELISA Cooper just a note that the tutorial materials are all available and I\u0027m it was recorded as well so if people missed it you can still catch up that way yeah cool thank you so so we certainly encourage people to try this out and you know we might gently nudge authors to put things in github as well thank you so it is you go in the pink box and take your clicker good morning so I\u0027m going to talk about the ipv6-only are a flag I think it it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:17",
    "text": "holy said it\u0027s in working group last call so the changes since the last meeting or in the new draft is and these were to address comments received during the last call these the author\u0027s view of this so we added a host configuration option that controls whether the host should process this flag and the notion is that if it unless this you know configure it unless it\u0027s enabled the host will ignore even if it\u0027s dual sac you know ignore this the notion is the concern raised was that if you\u0027re in an ipv4 only network there\u0027s no ipv6 services this could be used to turn off IP ipv4 maliciously so this gives the site the ability to have it set so it will be ignored so this attack potential malicious attack can\u0027t happen but and then you know in environments where they want to use this the configuration flag can be enabled to allow this and so we think this will help with the concern of using this to turn off before and a before only environment we also in this line we changed text that the host can ignore this flag if it has active ipv4 configurations they have obtained from DHC and so it\u0027s basically if if you have working v4 then don\u0027t turn off before it seems very sensible to do it this way and if there\u0027s no if you don\u0027t have any active communications then then you should listen to the flag some text clarification - to improve you know what the administrators intent was we had Jorn as an author he\u0027s made a lot of contributions and done the FreeBSD implementation we updated the information on the contribute the FreeBSD implementation and there are a number of editorial changes yeah so so at this point we have freebsd implementation there was some tests done with scrappy to make sure if you send this it doesn\u0027t break anything and there\u0027s now someone working on Linux and TCP dump Wireshark implementations so so as they said I think the the main issues raised were you know will be used by a bad actor to turn off before on an act at the four-link and so we think that the host configuration is one way of protecting and that as I said you you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:20",
    "text": "don\u0027t act on the flag if you have active ipv4 you know if you just have v4 that\u0027s using self configured addresses and there\u0027s no active connections then you should be listening to this and and I guess the other comment is that the rest of the security issues are really the same as you have with all other control protocols that run on on the link they can all be used by bad actors to do the wrong thing you know you can turn off before you can break before with the four just as well as with this so we think this is what\u0027s in the document is a reasonable compromise we think the issues are discussed in the securityq indirect consideration section and so we think we\u0027ve addressed these issues so the authors think it\u0027s ready to advance you know we have implementations that show that you know it works and doesn\u0027t seem to disrupt the legacy v6 implementations we think there\u0027s reasonable protections for security issue for the security issues that have been raised and so we we think this is ready to be advanced so comments questions yes I think the document is really nice and ready for publication I have one comment a question because I just realized I have a crazy idea of using Z\u0027s on dual stack network so because currently the document says administrator must only enable it on v6 only which I read as I cannot enable it on dual stack however there is a use case for this on dual stack when I\u0027m trying to move most of the devices which are capable of working on v6 only two v6 only mode and still allow legacy devices to get addresses via DHCP before so I kind of she\u0027s a use case for this to be in able to dual stack so do you think we can relax it to shoot in section 3 I\u0027m not sure to be honest with you I mean we try to make this be very focused on one one thing you\u0027re erasing a different environment I\u0027m not sure you have to think about that Tim shine I would assume those legacy devices wouldn\u0027t understand the flag anyway so it\u0027s really just a matter of wordsmithing the text isn\u0027t it yeah that\u0027s a good point yeah I mean this this only applies to dual stack host obviously if you had you ever be for only toast it\u0027s not going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:21",
    "text": "understand this yeah so that the whole idea all you devices will be instructed to move to v6 only and all devices will stay dual stack as expected right so basically I see it as a way to suggest so as a suggestion to host to move to v6 on SiC em right yet yeah and that\u0027s clearly not the way we were thinking about this but I think think about it more but I think you could be used for that yeah so conceivably we could add some text but you know I want the focus to remain you know it is an ipv6 only link and just we want to turn off the background before traffic okay any other comments just thinking quietly in my head here I could hum to myself yes I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s quite the process we want to follow here do we want to do a call on this further to determine the level of support to get his advanced yes okay let\u0027s let\u0027s do a home on that so the people in favor of closing this working group last call bouncing the document to the is G please hum now and the people who are against which would effectively drop this document and never talk about it again please hum now okay thank you so fernando gomes can you please come up okay I\u0027m Fernando go on I\u0027ll be presenting the RSC 49:41 this document and the idea for this presentation is to try to converge or or or close some of the you know issues that we have to agree on regarding this document let\u0027s start with the first one in the current version of the document we essentially specify two alternative algorithms for generating temporary addresses one is essentially calling several random number generator okay and the other one is essentially modification to the algorithm in 72 seventeen obviously some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:26",
    "text": "of the arguments to the hash function are are change so that you know the algorithm doesn\u0027t generate stable addresses by but temporary addresses so the first question regarding this issue is whether for example we just recommend the simple randomization algorithm whether we reduce whether we remove the 72 17 algorithm all together whether we just include the description of all both algorithms without recommending any of the tools or any of these two or some other option yes found this is a question we tomorrow there is a problem with using time for randomization as is this thing working I mean it is but at the bottom in order to speak directly into the microphone Christian yes like that excellent okay fine yeah there is a problem with having a concept of time in the generation of addresses because in practice you want your advance to remain stable for some duration and that\u0027s something we saw in MAC address randomization that is good too it\u0027s stable so that there are two notion of stability is that if you come back to some network that you visited two hours ago it\u0027s often nice to keep the same address for various reasons and at the same time if you come back on the same network in a week then it\u0027s not nice uh-huh so so you you have to work on this concept of what\u0027s the stable time that you want is a just I mean a Wi-Fi session is that a day is that mean it has to be part of what you what you are trying to do there well in one of the next few slides we actually well we are rising that you know question too because there was the comment regarding of adding the you know the value of time or not for example let\u0027s say that we are just using you\u0027re just using a simple seldom a cell the random number generator without a you know the any time parameter if the algorithm is that you know whatever you want to generate the new others you just select a new random number then the question is for example what happens if you briefly disconnect your link and then you reattach again what do you do you do you use the same address you generate a different one which is a what I\u0027m saying is that it\u0027s a more broader issue than just including the timer I mean the timer makes it evident I\u0027m not advocating a timer I\u0027m I\u0027m advocating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:27",
    "text": "having a discussion of this issue and balancing different solutions okay for example this one potential solution to say that we don\u0027t use time at all we assume the MAC address will be randomized according to some management I\u0027ll go with them and then we use that that\u0027s one possibility okay but I think that you know even if you know we remove the the time parameter from you know the 72 17 I guess there\u0027s still the question whether you know we want more than one algorithm in the document have more than one and recommend one of them have multiple don\u0027t recommend any just keep a single one and you know remove the rest I\u0027m fine with either option but I just want to know what\u0027s what the working group wants to do about this is a please don\u0027t get up on the microphone line everyone at once any hosts implementers of 49:41 who cares either way are you just going to stick with thanks mr. Eric Cline coming up on the mine yes Eric line I think I have a slight preference for at least keeping a reference to basically if you just use pure randomness to journey and generate one each time as a possible option also I think the issue of what to do when you come back to a network is just some simple text about whether it\u0027s up to the operating system whether they think they\u0027re trying to resume a session or whether trying to establish a new attachment to it to a network so you mean - kind of like the limit unspecified in a way like you know it\u0027s up to the implementation where to do it when to do it know when it\u0027s not you\u0027re referring to if I understood correctly like you were you were referring to the comment that Christian made and you were saying that it would be up to the implementation you know you know for how long the same address will be generated because I couldn\u0027t understand properly right so the it\u0027s up to the host if it\u0027s doing if it\u0027s doing DNA for example right uh-huh yeah so if it\u0027s doing if it decides I\u0027m doing DNA I\u0027ve been in this I\u0027ve been in there\u0027s never before within parameters that are operating system specific it\u0027s okay to just attempt to reuse the address as you would with DNA or not it\u0027s up to the operating system right I would just add some some text around management is separate from address generation right agree the question is regarding the algorithms I leave leave a leave early just make it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "okay to be purely random you can have you can have as many algorithms as you want huh just let one of them be pure randomness okay so no but not me you know you can have as many mix this with that and you know turn it seven times and do whatever those algorithms are all fine just leave you know so we instantiate you Mersenne twister we keep the two of things I\u0027m don\u0027t break them in any specific one of them that sounds fine to me okay thanks hi Fernando Dave Wonka I guess I want to also vote or my preference is the single randomization I\u0027m sorry can you hear me so I was saying I\u0027m also in favor of the the simpler option of the randomization a one thing I want to mention and I think you know this and I\u0027m not sure everyone does but in in mapper G in the last couple years we we explored the possibility of we noticed with privacy addresses that you can count you can use the privacy address to create an estimate of how many hosts have a privacy address configured you know in a network and there\u0027s some really nice advantages to that and the randomization one enables that the thing that you can do is try to guarantee anonymity to a certain size anonymity set if I can count them so I I\u0027m not gonna go into the details now there\u0027s a we have a draft about it and you can come to me afterwards about it if you haven\u0027t heard of this but basically if you use this the straight-up randomization with some fairly short live time like the day that\u0027s in the RFC recommendation now we can produce a high quality estimate of how many hosts are there and do an it hit aides anonymization for privacy so that particular mode of operation has some advantages we got and you\u0027d keep the two algorithms - I really prefer the first there was the one that the the recommendation that you know it changes every day and that\u0027s a random number or could be any other time range that that\u0027s the version that has this property not the one that when you lose you lose the property when you choose a pseudo random and you come back to a network and use the same pseudo random again if you know if you believe that the next time you come back to a network that you will choose a different pseudo random that\u0027s the one that has this nice counting behavior that lets us guarantee a size of anonymity set so I\u0027m just saying that\u0027s one of the considerations if you think you\u0027re fond of the ladder I would like to hear what it is it worth losing this counting feature yeah the thing is that so there are two separate questions one is whether we want to you know remove the description of one of the algorithms the other one is whether we want to recommend a particular one so for example if I understood an area correctly he wants to keep off and leave the option to the implementation like you know pick whatever you want okay I mean I\u0027m finally the way I\u0027m just trying to figure out you know what\u0027s the you know what working group refers yeah and and yeah I mean I guess I\u0027m in favor of even recommend strongly recommending the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "former specifically for this in an anonymous Asian counting feature if that\u0027s some compelling to the community I think it\u0027s a it\u0027s a nice feature of the simple randomization mode that you can do this so I suppose we you know we could certainly do a hum for each of these options if we think people you know are well I guess we could ask the people if they think they\u0027re ready to make that choice or if if we have to take it to the mailing lists I don\u0027t know any views on that are people ready to make this choice now or do we want to take that to the main list well we would confirm it anyway but how many people have read this document recently okay so we are going to take it to the mailing list good but but yes let\u0027s so let\u0027s talk about that phenomena and then we\u0027ll post these questions and get this close okay thank you and we would also like to have some reviewers on this document any volunteers Ron fantastic Christian would you like to to review this as well since you\u0027ve been involved in this for a long time super thank you right sure continue sorry yeah all the questions for the working group we had in a different ID a set of requirements for the temporary addresses so far they are not in 49:41 base so there was the question whether to include them on the on this document or not essentially rather than specifying I mean this is like something similar to what we did for stable addresses on one hand we had the algorithm but on the other hand we had like a set of requirements that the algorithm should fulfill like you know the addresses shouldn\u0027t should not be predictable they shouldn\u0027t follow patterns etc etc etc so some some have suggested to include these requirements in the body of the document obviously we would keep the algorithms themselves others have suggested to include these requirements in an appendix so that you know if for some reason people wanted to use a different algorithm other than the ones that we are describing in the document they know what are they you know the the properties that these algorithms should follow I don\u0027t think there have been arguments against not including that but still I mean I don\u0027t mind either way the question is what the working group wants to do about it any views on that come on guys speed read the document and jump to the mic okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:31",
    "text": "so we\u0027ll put that on the list yeah well we start a mail thread on that then there is another one which is this is a change with respect to 49 41 which is the current version of the document makes temporary addresses on by default now what we think is that you know in the light of 75 28 you know that\u0027s a sensible thing to do but you know that\u0027s a change that is already in the document from 49 41 but it\u0027s up for the working group to to discuss whether you know somebody\u0027s against that what is 75 20 a pervasive monitoring 7258 Braille could be yes I got the number rounding Eric Cline I mean I vote in favor for on by default sorry I vote in favor found by default we turn privacy addresses on and Android time ago okay I get this goes this could go as a question to the mainland list the last topic which is I mean some of the folks have made comments about this as part of the other question that I asked is whether to add additional references regarding you know when systems might want to generate the new address or not one might be to point to you know DNA for you know folks that try to detect when they have attached to a different link or not but based on the comments that we have seen so far it seems that you know some reference to this might be of help yeah so I guess that\u0027s it okay any general comments views item time when you say requirements are you talking about requirements from the host and users point of view or from the network management point of view is it exclusively one or the other or both you mean requirements when I said they\u0027re requirements for the algorithms just in general in the document so there will be no doubt requirements about when you think you should change IDs interface identifier or recommendations if you want like you know one of the things that one of the issues with 49:41 is that there were for example implementation that they would change to a different link and they you\u0027d keep the same interface identifier so they might they might keep the same interface ID so the question is or the thing here is to recommend at least like you know you to generate a new address at least you know when these things happen yeah so part of that is about not doing it predictably every 24 hours exactly for example part of it also if you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "managing the network is ideally you don\u0027t want hosts generating more addresses than they need to to establish reasonable privacy yeah in a sense well this is kind of like up to the implementation I guess and there are like a number of things that you know will bury from one implementation to another when they want to generate like a new one there could even be situations in which you know some operating system I want to generate a new temporary address for you know some subset of applications for example generate the new temporary addresses for you know web browser could be and I guess the question is are you just trying to do everything to maximize Percy of the user and then push the impact of that on to the people managing the network or people like Eric who are trying to figure out whether that\u0027s a session that\u0027s we continuing or genuinely a new attachment I guess that\u0027s the question but you have any views on that whether we should try and capture that in the document I think it should my personal view is that it should be mostly up to the implementation of up to the house of course there is a it\u0027s a trade-off right on one hand your house might generate my one but there\u0027s we have the BCP about you know they availability of addresses so in a way you know if hosts were to generate multiple addresses it\u0027s within that PCP I\u0027m not saying that it\u0027s perfect but it\u0027s it\u0027s a recommendation that we have right now yeah I mean if yeah if if the outcome is yeah the host can generate as many addresses like deal with it that\u0027s that\u0027s fine I just think maybe we can put some wording in there about that maybe it\u0027s not maybe you think we shouldn\u0027t just leave it completely neutral it\u0027s that\u0027s rewriting it it\u0027s an opportunity or updating it it\u0027s an opportunity to move that trade-off slider one way or the other or leave it i I think that you raise an interesting point I would say that probably if we let\u0027s say try to impose any kind of like constraints on that which you know my benefit the network on the other hand we already have a PCP regarding the availability of addresses so folks would say well we already have a BCP for that and you know notes are free to generate you know how many others is they want okay thanks okay super thanks Fernanda would you mind moving this document to github you think or is that right so now we have a you know six man or an ITF six man group on on yes so that would be cool I can work with you later on that one super thank you Jen okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:47",
    "text": "morning my name is Jenna and this ten or fifteen minutes talk is about how you can discover not six for prefix in arrays so I just resubmitted the document I said working group draft because it\u0027s been adopted so I first let\u0027s go through the concerns which were raised during the adoption call I hope I didn\u0027t miss anything so let me know if any of concerns on a note on this slide so first of all first concern was we already have three different solutions to inform host about the prefix but if you look at them first one solution is using the HCP which is not suitable for slack only networks because basically the goal is if I have the network which using slack to configure hosts how can I provide host with not six four prefix insecure away so DHCP is not an option here by definition PC be basically the same right especially if the host uncontrolled I have no guarantees that supports PCP and if the only think I used for configuring hosted slack I have actually no desire to turn on additional services especially if I don\u0027t know if clients are going to support it so this left us with RFC 70/50 using DNS to discover not six for prefix those problem use it is its has some security implications because you kind of need have you have to trust it in a sensor which can be easily spoofed so obviously it still could be used by legacy hosts but what we trying to do is to provide host in with not six for prefix in more secure away and also in single packet host could get all configuration information instead of waiting for Dena\u0027s exchanges so well other concern was the proposer do you wanna take some question in between just if we your name please might look at that orange yes so let\u0027s assume it is true so if we want me to occur there so let\u0027s so sure you need to get closer to the mic so I will try I will try my best so sorry for that okay so if we assume that the information which is in slide is true that me that for every service we will have to apply and to give us arguments as as an argument to define a service option in array so it\u0027s a secure so I need to define some process for my media slide cgn name there so I have to be able to define an array option because of this argument that you are providing here these slides so thank you for that a bit way and then I need to define for us a sip proxy server then I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:49",
    "text": "have nothing I am only Ryan slack only Network and then I have to go to the same arguments and then we we are I would say repeating the same arguments and again so I don\u0027t think personally this is a good argument to justify why we have to define this new option in rice so it\u0027s if we give it as a fact then we have to open the door to any service name to be defined in the array option itself so that\u0027s only yeah this one let me answer this slark is designed to provide hosts with configuration information which is which is needed for basic network connectivity right I am not aware of any operators who think that all the hosts need to be provided with sip proxy to get basic network connectivity while dns64 in and not six flow and v6 only network is basically required for hosts to have internet connectivity so it\u0027s kind of special case if in future we see any other use cases for something else which is required for the host to operate we might consider I believe as array options but I think we\u0027re doing it on case-by-case basis I haven\u0027t used case when my hosts need to be provided with not six four prefix otherwise they couldn\u0027t access the internet reliably so that\u0027s why I\u0027m such a suggestion using array option I don\u0027t need to configure SCIM proxies as an operator it can but the other operators can decide that the you want to have for instance to be able to provide some specific services to their ipv6 a host using using slack and you can not one date to the other operator how you can do it just because for you you don\u0027t think this is a basic service I think this is where it which is really I would say and agree area which is we are starting either we all know it for every service or either we are really careful about that anyway maybe my comment is not is it really about this this kind of legend here so I I really don\u0027t care if we just start and define a new option for rail and for not 64 and so on but my main concern is that there is already there an ATF consensus document which we have went all all of this all these options and this is a deserve you solution that we discussed the eruption and so on I was not against it at that at the time but the ATF decided to go one way and if we have to revise that the consensus document we have to obsolete the existence RFC which defined all and made a recommendation for the ATF as a whole and we cannot do that separately for this specific case but by the way the discovery ordinal 64 may be important for some cases but for there are some networks in which they don\u0027t need to discover the net 64 because the nesic c4 is only a service providing the ipv4 service connectivity is not a mandatory requirement for every ipv6 ipv6 ipv6 Network you can require for some network "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:51",
    "text": "but this is not something which is mandatory for every ipv6 network that\u0027s only open for this one sorry may I ask you two questions so first of all I know suggestions that we need to update some of the other RFC\u0027s resists because I assume what a variety of decides could be reconsidered in the lights of new operation requirements so that\u0027s why we are coming to this solution and a second question is we have other options like most Pacific routes and DNS and so what shall we also stop using them because we will have other ways to provide the host visit information yeah I think the point has to be is to be fair for the people who made the effort in the past and with that recommendation and to have a consensus just by the way for information for the DVP for instance it was not recommended a solution and we have the opportunity in the past in the issue working from the software working groups defined a dedicated option for not 64 but me as a relator at the time I said no we cannot split the option because it will have a side effect that will be a way to configure the gnostics the option and this will be against the existing ITF recommendation so if we will start to do this work just start to do it in the right way that the right way for me is to go and try top 3 the RFC 77050 and then to just do it with the new motivate with the new information we have today and to explain to the IETF why we have to observe that recommendation and why new solution need to be defined at the point and so our ad Suresh he is unfortunately in India he\u0027s in the microphone queue so I\u0027ll let him enjoy she don\u0027t mind okay Hey I\u0027m sitting at a chair so just to secession can you move a little bit further away from the microphone because the volume in the room here was very loud how about laughs full control okay like I\u0027m really like holding my mic like as far as much front of me as possible so there\u0027s something in the room but the thing I want to say is whatever phase share so the router should send stuff in our ace and the DNS and nat64 our bono cases so me dwelling next what is next like a sip server but that\u0027s obviously not gonna happen okay so this is like somewhere in the middle that we can consider discussing it but I\u0027m not sure either to be very frank mate right like you know where this falls but so the as far as like absolute in 1750 I don\u0027t think it\u0027s necessary i we do have some examples there like stuff so I have been getting quite a bit of feedback myself "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:55",
    "text": "okay I think I\u0027ll just type and let somebody really so Airy giving speaking for Suresh and basically from a jabber room so okay we get the good average I guess at some point of sign so it basically says view that if the configuration information is fed sharing with the router it needs to be into the route advertisement if not it can be in the HCP and then dns64 and 96 for a border case that can be argue whether they\u0027re our basic connectivity primitives and I don\u0027t think this will extend to sip server state favor speaking of the mic so on the topic of 70/50 I think that it does not need to be obsolete or whatever I think they\u0027re actually for different use cases I think the use case that you\u0027re targeting is the one where you\u0027re configuring the router and you want security and you have secure Ras deployed right okay I don\u0027t know how many people actually have secure Ras deployed but 70 50 is for the case where the organization that deploys the net six foreign dns64 maybe under a different administrator from the one that\u0027s configuring the actual first hop router so if they think about like a tethering case or something like that where you know you\u0027re the local router on your phone or whatever and so 7050 works regardless of whether the last hop router has any knowledge of it right because you\u0027re getting it from entities that are where the Nets net and and dns server are and so I think that therefore somewhat different deployment cases one where you specifically have security turned on which is a case where you\u0027re using in your Ras and where you want administrative control at the edge router the other ones for a case where you\u0027re controlling stuff or you\u0027re the entity that only control stuff at the dns64 and net6 for which may be farther away than just the last hop and so my point is that since neither one is a superset of the other it doesn\u0027t make sense to do an a obsolete they\u0027re actually for somewhat different use cases that they\u0027re both valuable we are fair enough by securing our a I\u0027m not necessary mean send I mean I can guarantee that my host receiving arrays only from my router to some degree right so I can prevent rogue host to send array so I can say yeah my arrays are reasonably secure and if I have someone sending malicious re I have bigger "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:55",
    "text": "problems and not six for if you don\u0027t have send then how is it any more secure than 7050 as I think right now he\u0027s 70 50 you\u0027re saying see secure right because it\u0027s not secure in that sense well meteors are raised unless you have said I cannot guarantee is that no the malicious host is not saying spoof DNS response from outside while forays if I isolate host to host and traffic is only allow it from host or router I can guarantee due to some level of confidence that RSI secure if you can prevent host a host then I clean you can prevent spoofing of DNS from other close on that link from outside it\u0027s not necessary from inside the network right okay I understand your answer my point remains that I don\u0027t think either one is a superset of either scenario and so it doesn\u0027t make sense do and obsolete Erik line yeah yeah in the sense the RA option allows each and to not have to have dns64 at all that\u0027s the point so if you have lots and lots of DNS over TLS or DNS or HTTP or some other things and you can actually have the host do DNS these for synthesis on device and not have to have not have to talk to a dns64 like dns64 completely of course I about to deal with not with the prefix themselves I do not even need to run gayness x1 and in fact that is part of how it was sort of discovered turning on private eNOS so yeah another concern raised was that it should be configured on the router which is a creational nightmare and I kind of disagree because we already have to configure prefixes for slack DNS services preferred lifetimes and other things and normally automation take care of this so it\u0027s not a bug it\u0027s a feature so we can allow all those information to share fate with routers because it\u0027s directly related to origin queries it\u0027s not six for prefixes going so obvious I do believe it makes sense to share afraid I was around information so it was some concerns raised about let\u0027s unify dhcpv6 and our options to be honest I did not really get it and anyway I believe it\u0027s kind of out of scope of this draft and if you start doing this we can have another conversation about this but to be honest I just like to let my hosts in v6 only network to get prefix and see implementation as soon as possible so we received a number of suggestions for the document I first mark I didn\u0027t exclude set for the four ranges honestly I kind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:55",
    "text": "of think we should be doing this but probably not in this option because again this option is mostly useful on v6 only network exclude set would not be really useful on v6 unless scenario it would be used as well in dual stack with DNS not six for network so probably we just can\u0027t have another array option and I\u0027m kind of volunteering can write a draft if you think it should be we need this option so nan / 96 perfect support we\u0027ve heard about one use case have not heard about others so first question shall we be doing this and if yes how because the current proposed option format is trying to kind of minimize the size of the option so we\u0027re not inflating inflating array too much so we came up with two ideas of how you can support nan / 96 prefixes first of all obviously is just add prefix length in the top which unfortunately means you significantly increase the size of sorry always so even if you use slash 96 which I suspect will be the most common use case you still have a large array option another slightly more crazy approach is to have graphically prefix length and the end and if the option lengths is 2 then you know that it / 96 and if option lenses threes and you get the perfect length and the bottom of the option the benefit of this is that you basically do not need to have large option if you use slash 96 so you can save some space and I think we have presidents with route information option which is also variable length so it\u0027s not something so uncommon I actually don\u0027t have any preference so I would like to us the shipper can grow opinion on this uh and another option is yeah let\u0027s do / 96 now and if we have come up with a personal use case for non / 96 we can do that or use always a universal re option for this so we just dress admitted the document as a working group draft Mayon changes we clarify the y host might need to get Danis not 6 for prefix for it\u0027s a local DNS SEC validation for 6 for X lot use 19 for literals using trusted untrusted external DNS servers and also as we just mentioned eliminating dns64 whatsoever because eventually if I know that all hosts support this option I don\u0027t even need to run dns64 as a separate service and it was it was some confusion apparently in the text about why we saying that we using only one option one prefix for all destinations and at the same time the option might appear more than once in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:56",
    "text": "the array so we clarified the text a bit hopefully it\u0027s more readable now and so now I would like to hear some suggestions options we need kosher [Music] mark Andrews the excluded addresses if we go down the variable array length path adding exclusion of adding the exclusion information it could be optional and I could we could do is exactly the same thing as you\u0027re doing with lengths you have a prefix length and then after that you have a DNS address where you where you pick up the information from for the exclusion information you don\u0027t have to include including code exclusion information in that were in that in the option itself you just need to have a pointer to where you can find it well and basically you\u0027d have prefix length and then a DNS address included and encoded in the DNS for encoding with the route saying there is no address there is no information so you get prefix length and one more bite if you\u0027ve got no information or if there\u0027s no information and no prefix length you do the short alright yeah actually yes it does make sense here so basically suggestions that we using approach number two and we expand this to have some other additional information which will be optional if you know yeah yeah fair enough yeah I I would like to ask one thing is the option able to transfer through for example CPE because I do have a similar draft which solves the issue differently and I have been getting this question if the option is able to transfer through for example rotor because if you do have a provider which support which gives you this option of the prefix as first Explorer not if such device after the CPE would also receive it so yeah so I I guess I guess your suggestions that the CPE should if they receive it for arms three upstreams they should include that in the race and down strips yeah I think that you yeah well we can add the text cloud of ions is here yeah okay thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:57",
    "text": "you and do you wanted to say something no I didn\u0027t really have anything to add after you parties responded okay thank you well so this has just been adopted I guess we\u0027ll enjoy some more working group yes thank you too okay Darren are you here floor is yours and I think you have 30 minutes right see if we can get the mic the right height here everyone hear that we\u0027re good there we go how is that okay alright so the SR header revision 17 was attempted to publish and it\u0027s just finally published now you guys can see if there\u0027s been some updates done to it so we\u0027re gonna cover what\u0027s in revision 17 in in this talk once again thanks to all the collaborators and partnerships we\u0027ve had the the vendors the service riders the members of this working group for commenting and contributing to this draft so the today we\u0027re gonna cover four major parts we\u0027re gonna cover running code and deployments that\u0027s our kind of main objective of this working group is to get closure in in drafts and get get running code and get rough consensus within the working group so hopefully we were well on the way to getting that and with the changes in revision 1617 as well as the issues that we need to close this week to complete the last call and we\u0027ll cover how we plan on doing that this week all right so on the SR v6 collaboration adoption we\u0027ve had quite a number of years and all this they mentioned it\u0027s been in last call now for 12 months we\u0027ve been six years since this was first presented at the IETF there\u0027s been like I said lots of industry sport and vendors and academic research there\u0027s been 24 revisions of the drafts there\u0027s been a thousand emails approximately on six-man mailing lists from a basic search like that\u0027s one email per line of text or very close to it there\u0027s been a large number of ITF presentations and 35 versions of the draft have been submitted since it was a individual submission there are a lot of implementations so I\u0027ll go through them relatively quickly these ones I think everyone\u0027s well aware of I\u0027ve talked about them before and 2017 and then ongoing updates to Linux "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:00",
    "text": "as a 410 Linux SR extensions and FDI o VPP with SR v6 support in all three of these including what\u0027s in the SR header and beyond cisco has shipping code with the SR header on the ASR 9000 5500 a bunch of iOS XR platforms and that is shipping today and shipping now Huawei has a large number of shipping products with SR v6 support as well on their VRP v vr p v8 platforms barefoot has shipping code since it leaves May of 2017 and I believe there\u0027s actually an open source reference I can post a list after this talk for the p4 code on Tofino aspire onyxia have released sr v6 support on their hardware implementations on the application side we have Wireshark tcp dump IP tables etc snort and of tables all with sr v6 support release for them we have an eye chart of research publications on SR v6 everything from some very cool load balancers to some Sdn architecture for for networks some enterprise use cases basically lots of stuff there you can you can take a look at the presentation offline and and browse these as much as you want there have been interrupt bind 2017 for l3 VPN with traffic engineering and service programming between FDI OH barefoot Tofino implementation Cisco\u0027s NCS 5500 which is using commercially available NTU so other platforms other than just Cisco\u0027s can be building s r v6 solutions based on that and the ASR 1000 family using a custom Cisco ASIC again at an Tech 2018 there was LT l3 VPN with traffic engineering and TI LFA that was interrupted between the NCS 5500 and Strada comics the Inspiron release wise and deployment wise softbank\u0027s of course announced their nationwide SR v6 core network utilizing the content of the SR header draft a bunch of services that are in that work programming beyond what we\u0027re working on here extensions nice a.s and BGP along with ping and traceroute support from the OEM draft that\u0027s going to be presented maybe later today or Friday China Telecom has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "deployed a nationwide network on SR v6 as I said nationwide but and v6 network on China Telecom utilizing this draft again some of the functions out of SR network programming and again s-sir v6 extensions in BGP and ping and traceroute support alright so that\u0027s the end of implementations all right I suppose if we\u0027re for going on on what\u0027s been developed what\u0027s been deployed what\u0027s been released there\u0027s a lot of investment on this draft from vendors from service providers and it\u0027s been I think fairly well well deployed so far even though it\u0027s still perhaps early in its life so let\u0027s take a look at changes in 16 and 17 and the deployment model in revision 16 was updated really to concentrate on how we secure the SR domains from external attempts to use it\u0027s it\u0027s we looked at the SR domain as a single routing system with delegation between components that includes some description of how H Mac can be used in in that system and we described how back in handling happens within the SR domain for ICMP airs for MTU for a H ESB so it\u0027s pretty well described now in the deployment model as a revision 16 revision 17 we\u0027ve removed the reference to network programming that was asked for by some one of the open issues or actually two of the open issues were on that TLV processing limits were added this was again to start to address another TLV related issue that that we have in the issue tracker there may be more work to do there but we\u0027ll see this week we\u0027ll see from comments that people have we\u0027ve had some updates to pad TLV some minor descriptions made sure hm a discovery covering the destination address of the packet and it matches the first segment the extension header processing rules were updated to make it clear that extension headers are in fact processed in order and we\u0027re not skipping any of them that wasn\u0027t apparently wasn\u0027t clear in the previous revision I think there was some confusion on that and flow labels are required in this draft for intra SR domain communication as well so previously we had flow labels required for inter domain this draft adds some for intradomain there\u0027s a section that like Adrian somewhere here it pointed out a while ago that we needed which was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:02",
    "text": "more description around what a designated expert is supposed to do when assigning making assignments out of the Ayana portions of this draft are specified the flags and TLV the description in that section now follows the best practices in 8126 so requires a working group draft and requires notification this six-man and describes what what sort of time frame is required and how the expert reviewer should respond alright issues to close on this draft we still have some where around I think 10 or 12 issues that remaining open some are duplicates some are partially closed and some of those are actually fully closed so we just need to do the housekeeping to clean them up however on the tag processing I\u0027d sent an email look to the list this past week on this tag processing as it\u0027s defined in the draft is well the processing is defined at least saying that a was how a source end point no it should be handling it when we don\u0027t have a use case defined we don\u0027t have a use case to find in the draft and looking at how to actually document in this draft what those use cases might be and and and how the tag field might be used was going to be a fairly large amount of information to put in here we think that it\u0027s still better to leave that to a separate draft to define various various use cases and and and and how that tag would be used to identify a group of packets at the source for processing at some segment end point on the TLV side the let\u0027s see the the tlvs are really that fundamental part of the SR architecture where we want to get that integrated underlay and overlay and service chaining solution implemented and we need to be carrying metadata along with with some of those segments the TLB provide a space for that metadata and it\u0027s important that we include that space within the SR header if we if we have it preceding the SR header we run the risk of expanding the number of bytes that need to be processed on some of the topological segments to the point where we\u0027re you know we reduce the amount of topological segments that we can process or we increase the processing requirements on those topological segments that have to parse those tlvs so I keeping them included within the SR header after the segment list allows us to basically not process them or not skip over them until they actually need to be need to be used "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:07",
    "text": "on the management section this was something back at ITF 103 I noted that we want to take a look at I think at the point where we\u0027re at now we don\u0027t have a management section defined in this draft yet and we don\u0027t have any example text on what that might be it\u0027s probably a good idea at this point to leave that for another document to describe any additional management requirements around us every six and oh there\u0027s various gaming models that are coming out for SR policies so so you know we can we can talk about that folks can give their opinion but I think it\u0027s probably best at this point we\u0027ll leave the management section for other graph okay then the plan on how we\u0027re going to close last call so we\u0027ve been asked this week to get to get this document closed I\u0027ve requested meetings with folks on Tuesday and Wednesday the the folks with open issues in issue tracker there\u0027s a couple that I haven\u0027t heard from yet so hopefully I\u0027ll hear from those folks today and we can get on with those meetings have a meeting set up with Bob on Thursday to go over the state of those issues from Tuesday and Wednesday so we can make any updates to issue tracker and then be ready for Friday\u0027s report of where we are with open issues on the SR header okay and that is our current status of the SR header in the working group so go ahead let\u0027s open it up to discussion and comments Eric not my question on your implementation list so do you know which subset of these ones actually do encapsulation as opposed to the old non encapsulating in inserting on the SR a turkey so all of these all of the implementations are VPN implementations they all encapsulate okay there\u0027s got to be more than that go it\u0027s time left yeah yeah plaintiffs on it Tom Herbert so with respect to the TLV there\u0027s actually two questions I think so one is why are TLV is required in the segment routing header as opposed to using say a destination options before the second outing header the other question is if you do have tlvs in the segment rounding header why would the definition and the up and the requirements be different than hop I hop options or destination options so for instance one of the big differences is that there\u0027s a modifiable bit however in the segment routing tlvs the type and the length are not covered in a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:08",
    "text": "modifiable bit by the off header there\u0027s your doubt that\u0027s very different from RFC 8200 so I think the implication there is and this is probably something that has to be closed I think at one point there was the idea that segment routing tlvs could be inserted or deleted and it\u0027s unclear from the current discussion is that something that is intended or if it\u0027s eliminated if we\u0027re never going to do that then I don\u0027t see any reason why the segment routing TLV should be any different than hop-by-hop or destination options yeah okay so I see the first one of those first one of those questions which was why have tlvs within the routing header versus destination option so it so that the there\u0027s two answers to that the first answer the technical one is tlvs that precede the segment routing header push it back further in the packet if we as we add more tlvs to the to the basically preceding that segment routing header those nodes that are there simply let\u0027s say topological processing notes for the most part have to look further into that header to to process the segment routing header and have to do additional work as they process that segment routing header they have to walk each one of those destination option tlvs with it with the tlvs within the segment routing header that\u0027s not a requirement on every segment just listed in the segment list okay so so that\u0027s that that\u0027s the two of them alright that\u0027s the first one the the second one that\u0027s the technical reason the they I think more the design reason is that is it about when you\u0027re when you\u0027re defining a segment list and you\u0027re defining a I guess the source routing as a solution keeping the segment\u0027s and the and the options associated those segments in a single extension header is I guess yes attractive in that regard but combined with the combined with the additional processing overhead I think that\u0027s a significant reason to keep them where where they are in the Sigma roadheader Julie you\u0027ve got a follow up child halpern with Erickson the question on your most recent comment I don\u0027t see where the current document draws a distinction in kinds of segments much less says this kind of segment must look at tlvs and this kind of segment must ignore TLV is you may have implemented it knowing what was safe but that\u0027s not an interoperable implementation saying there was a shortcut you could take doesn\u0027t help us so this document only defines the header structure and it defines a single type of segment an end segment but the processing rules for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:10",
    "text": "tlvs have to be defined here they can\u0027t be added later you\u0027re justifying putting the tlvs here technically on the basis of processing rules which are not here I can\u0027t see how that can be a justification for including the tlvs technically it\u0027s not here you\u0027re not spelling it out how can it be a behavior that drives the redesign ok so again this this draft is is designing the base that other things are going to be built on obviously it\u0027s not obviously every conceivable use case is not spelled out in this draft no but a question of things must process tlvs and must not process to yell these does seem to be a base behavioral requirement yeah implicit concrete is everything must look at them not everything must do HVAC processing but it has to notice it no actually the current text document says dependent on local policy which is open to further clarification and in subsequent documents as to what that would be it does it would look it up to you the user site would look at the HVAC it doesn\u0027t lead to the optimization you\u0027re citing is the excuse for doing it the it\u0027s okay okay I think I described the technical reasons why fairly clearly so such person do you have a also to be seen yes in the other I see do so closer to the mic please much fun others do consider the acceleration only user praying specification so that it will be defined in Deseret it\u0027s very useful because the the entity of the the user praying of warding desire defined in the other sto because a CBP consider a study to to to put the year some parameter in the other metadata in the servitor so the city our principle to to study the the other candidate of the user plan but also yeah the processing theory is could be defined in the entity of the dot user pram so um to confine the all of the metadata assert its the absolutely how about you thank you okay so the right honorable chair prescribed yes you Java\u0027s try be speaking for my caliber AMISOM he asked you Darrin can you elaborate on the MTU discovery you just mentioned and where to find information in the draft MTU discovery yeah I don\u0027t think I mentioned MTU designed to you handling I don\u0027t recall saying anything about MTU did I did okay I\u0027m just repeating the question okay yeah I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:11",
    "text": "understand yeah Chumlee from Hawaii and I have two comments and the first one there\u0027s TLB until the stranger option header has the same functionality which the TV in SH but actually for me I think that if we put the cherries inside the SI h which is it means the segment list would be better for how we\u0027re processing right and the second one is actually we have several implementation already and our customers require as obvious except estava sex and we hope those authors to address the issues as soon as possible because it\u0027s a long tongue yep thank you like this is the for the forelli so coming back to kill me I have a draft which is agenda hopefully today but just to add what Aaron said when to process TLV is a property of the state if this is the notion of programmability of the network so let\u0027s say for instance see in van onm use case that is there in the draft it allows more flexible implementation that all nodes along the path doesn\u0027t have to look for the TLV based on the local said the node knows whether look for TLV or not which is which is the true notion of programmability so it goes back so if if we go with destination option or hopper how option you lose the entire basis of a services the programmability as second efficiency aspect so in addition to the hardware efficiency there are Network wide efficiency and there are many use cases and and in when onm is one of them where we can take advantage of it because not all nodes in the network is capable of processing TLV so when you send an environment in packet only node that are capable of doing so needs to look for it and needs to modify it thanks so on the subject of local policy this is used several times in the draft and in some cases it\u0027s very open-ended like it\u0027s up to local policy how to process tlvs in certain cases and the thing is that\u0027s so broad that it\u0027s almost like an implementation could decide to process these things however they want it\u0027s an unlimited open-ended thing which makes me wonder how you derive interoperability and conformance from that so I think in the draft I personally would prefer to configuration as opposed to local policy where you have maybe two choices you can configure it this way or this way but the open-ended local policy and the comment that we\u0027re building this on the assumption that there\u0027s going to be things later that that further define or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:13",
    "text": "clarify that I think you know going back to the previous points we have to have in in the draft it has to in a sense be complete such that I can implement this without having to make assumptions or guesses about what the right local policy is yeah so I\u0027d say we\u0027re at this point we\u0027re not making guesses there\u0027s that there\u0027s a number of drafts already that are defining tlvs and and how or when they get processed so so that\u0027s that\u0027s you know that\u0027s beginning to happen and the involvement of of this working group in the spring working group in those drafts will will shape all right it means defining tlvs in the framework of what tlvs are and my claim is the definition of tlvs themselves is still open-ended so somebody could come up with some alternatives that no one else would ever implement but it still claimed conformance that\u0027s the issue Roby inferno javi I think I know that\u0027s their the what is caution regarding that here is in the Asajj in fact that we already proposed these some user cases you know either dropped that\u0027s the SRA PR we use the useful for such a u-lock uses so I am a suggestion you that because of these use cases depend on the SR actual draft and instead the SRO draft that depend on these the possible use cases of the theory is the draft so my suggestion since this is the usual case is the justified the theory usage in the SRH header so my suggestion you that the this draft user just use the prop hold is the definition of the theory in the SRH but for the problem is offered our way for such that the user cases should be in tuh or the hubbub I hope I hope how their or the SRA should carry I think that can be addressed that you the user keys offered is that you are we used to craft that\u0027s my commerce okay hi Darren Ron Bonica juniper this discussion about tlvs and destination options could go on for a very long time and the reason why is we\u0027re making design decisions based on poorly understood requirements right now we know about exactly one TL v the H Mac and we\u0027re not quite sure we understand that completely may be a good thing to do would be to leave the door open to doing it either way later when we understand more tlvs and more requirements leave the door open for now move them out of the document so we can progress the document and get it as an RFC and reintroduce it when we know what tlvs were actually going to use does the SFC TLV belong in there we don\u0027t know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:13",
    "text": "yet we\u0027re six men guys when we understand it then we bring it back and we put it in the right place okay yeah I I would think we I would certainly think that defining it now and and defining the base now and allowing for allowing allowing for that innovation those those options to be brought out is certainly more valuable than then saying nothing on it all of us have an interest in getting this document published quickly because we really do want implementations coming out to get it published quickly the best thing we can do is put off the controversial decisions and publish what we all agree on no I like again I don\u0027t understand this I mean logic this is like everything is spelled out in this draft and there are so many use cases drafts that are there then claiming that we don\u0027t know what is the usage when their application their implementation that exists for using those tlvs makes no sense to me and and and and with all due respect Ron I mean there\u0027s a point where we have to differentiate between political interests and the actual reality of the world I mean this is this is this work has been going on for six years and and and this discussion had been going on for more than a year about this tlvs and and and and you seems to be stuck with this and he seems to be always cleaning remove remove remove chop chop chop where everything is properly defined I mean I I think you have to be reasonable I was coming ETL visa to find today sorry I\u0027ll ask how many till these are defined today yeah they\u0027ll be defined for Ioana in been O\u0026M they\u0027re in list I\u0027ll kill fine no in a complementary document which references this doc and so so fine HBU fine okay let me finish and this is placeholder for TLV this is not okay and then there TL will define for service chaining performance management Robin was this work opposed okay so if you were to use the same logic then destination options would have never been published in 2460 because they\u0027re exactly two TLV their pad and and pad one rightly there was no TLV there fine defined either so we define these things so that we can we can build on them we can build product on them that is this useful to the network and it\u0027s useful to it\u0027s useful in deployments and and you know let\u0027s we define the vape the base and we we allow the innovation to happen on top of that I think that\u0027s what safar was calling it is that that there is there is definitions that are they\u0027re being built and in different drafts in coming out now you\u0027re asking to do the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:14",
    "text": "design process backwards let\u0027s design the packet formats now and we\u0027ll agree on the use cases later you don\u0027t know all the use cases before you start you know some of them you\u0027ve got a you\u0027ve got a good view as to where things are going and you make the best engineering decision you can with the information that you have you know you you take one step forward and you keep taking another step forward and another step forward until you get close to that right solution and that\u0027s where we are we\u0027re taking one step forward yo javi okay I already mentioned I think the issue not as a task officer drafter to defend all the possible theories of SRH I think that\u0027s the user I already mentioned this is the design of this the purpose of that er we are saying Edessa the first is the integral in tikrit head of the solution for the SRH so there\u0027s the the segment and also this is the segmental East and that here we can be incorporated here in the one part this is the first one I said in the one less you the they are already that you Decatur to draft a proposal to justify that you are we that can be used in the SRH maybe not a user th or the hop-by-hop this is the opener header so the one I think that\u0027s the I think the purpose of the SRH is adjusted who proposed this the more capability of the network a program I mean I think based on this one I think we proposed this so the I think a DC the Charter at the pace of the use of the that your week the theory either the in the pace draft I think II I think the other that here we may be in the future draft we can\u0027t you find them all just to add like when NPA the plane was defined not all youth kisses for label would define we are still defining you schedule for labels so okay empty microphone lies I guess that\u0027s that\u0027s some progress so I\u0027m not quite sure how to I think from up here it sounded like the TLV she was the sort of the biggest discussion topic here and it\u0027s been discussed for quite some time personally I don\u0027t quite see the difference but between in all of these are containers right that carry tlvs that are not yet defined like the Hopis up options or the destination options I\u0027m not quite sure I see sort of the significant difference between this option and the other ones we have and if I recall correctly and I\u0027m not sure I do but I think we did discussion we had unlimited domains the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:14",
    "text": "working group did ask you to add the H Mac as you know an answer to the security concerns of crossing limited domain so I\u0027m uncomfortable of you know suggestions or going back on that but if there are in clear interoperability issues with the Till\u0027s we tell these that are there you know please propose text and and clarifications are famed and clearly you know TVs that don\u0027t exist we can\u0027t specify but I think that\u0027s fine but I don\u0027t think I don\u0027t think we have any you know further ways of closing this now I think as a part you know letting the discussion continued yeah what do you think public go during the week yes so we have asked the author\u0027s you know with a strong encouragement to work through all these issues during this week we have a Friday session to summarize this and you know please any issues you have let\u0027s work through them this week we have ample time between Monday and you know today and Friday so yeah super thank you and just want to make a note to those people with open issue so I\u0027ve reached out to get back to me and we\u0027ll start let\u0027s start getting to work thanks super thank you and Fernando please come up [Music] oops okay so this is for another gun presenting document we go out or with a young horse the title of the document is slacks reaction to remembering events there are a number of scenarios that you know can lead to the problem that we are discussing in our ID we\u0027re going to focus just on one specific of those scenarios so here we have a typical ipv6 deployment scenario in which you have a CPA router that does DHCP prefix delegation with the ISP and it advertises a sub prefix we are slack on the local network okay so the question is for example what happens when these cpu router crashes and reboots for example what happens in many of these scenarios is that when the CPE router come back to life it does DHCP prefix delegation again "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:15",
    "text": "the ISP it might get leased a different prefix and it will advertise one of the sub prefixes of the newly leased a prefix on the local network obviously the hosts on the local network will configure addresses for you know their newly advertised prefix but they will normally also keep the addresses and the roads corresponding to their now stale prefix obviously the outcome of this is that since the no previously configured addresses have become invalid or stale any communication employing those addresses will fail obviously depending on the scenario if it\u0027s a six only scenario communication might completely fail if there is before connectivity and the application employees happy eyeballs that might mean that you know the resultant traffic is ipv4 etc there are a couple of deployments that you know might avoid this problem there\u0027s the right document I don\u0027t remember the 690 okay then write 690 document about the discusses the you know the the assignment of prefixes and they actually describe a little bit this problem and what they do in that document is recommend that ISPs lease stable prefixes what persistent okay persistent stable prefixes the idea is obviously that you know if you always list the same prefix to the CPE router even if the CPU rotor crashes and reboots it gets the same prefix so nothing changes there there are a number of reasons for which that might not be the case but some of them you might agree or not but I would say that at the end of the day the thing is that you have deployments that employ dynamic prefixes for different reasons among others there are ISPs that simply want to cherish more for stable prefixes against DC says deployment reality then you might say well this is right I you do things differently this is what we have there\u0027s another thing that could be done you know to avoid this problem to some extent is to have the CPU routers record the prefixes that have been leased on stable storage so the idea is that when the CPE router crashes and reboots it remembers where was the prefix that had been leased before and the CP robber could somehow try to invalidate the prefix that can be tricky "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:17",
    "text": "for a number of reasons first of all if they\u0027re reboots are frequent the CPU rudder might have to record many prefixes not a single one of course assuming multiple reboots and reboots and dynamic prefixes they might also need to advertise these prefixes for quite a while the you know the lifetime of the prefixes another thing is that even if you try to invalidate these prefixes according to RFC 48 61 but is lifetimes smaller than two hours should not be honored so you can reduce or you know they prefer lifetime as much as you want but not the valid lifetime meaning that you would keep these prefixes or the address configured for these prefixes for at least two hours another thing related with this is that there are implementations that enforce limits on the number of addresses that they will configure so since the CPS cannot completely remove the addresses configured for these prefixes well you might by unprofor the addresses but you will keep the old addresses so if the reboots are frequent then you might end up hitting the system specific limits for you know the maximum number of addresses that can be configured so how we think this should be solved our document discusses a number of things that might be useful essentially and try to put it simply the the main mitigation for this problem that we proposed in the document is to try to infer that when you receive erase from the same router that you were receiving erase before these arrays include prefix information options for other prefixes and not for the yeah for the previous one then you infer that these prefixes have become stale since we publish the talk this recommend there was a lot of discussion actually if you follow the 6-month discussion it was over like 300 messages and while we were discussing this topic yesterday doing and after the IEP team meeting there were suggestions for example not to let\u0027s say completely act in response of these arrays again arrays from the same router they include prefix information options but they don\u0027t advertise the previous prefix but there have been suggestions for example such as in this particular "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:20",
    "text": "situation try to perform some kind of check before removing the addresses or the prefixes to check if these prefixes are valid or not edek klein suggested for example to send a packet to your same address but direct the packet to the next hop router so if the if that packet bounces back then that\u0027s an indication that you know the cpu rather still has you know still considers the prefix to be there in a sense open open received of arrays with other PA OS we might want to do something about this what currently in the IDE is to first of all UNPROFOR the the addresses and then to remove them but there are other things that are possible such as for example check with a router if the prefix is still there or not all the things that might be of help for example RFC 48 61 says that you shouldn\u0027t honor pios or the lifetime in particular not the PIO as a whole you shouldn\u0027t honor valid lifetimes smaller than two hours the reasoning in 48 60 is to you know prevent the exploitation of these pockets for performing denial-of-service attacks our view is that if you\u0027re going to trust the RS there are so many different you know attacks that could be performed that just mitigating this particular one doesn\u0027t seem to be that doesn\u0027t seem to be you know much much sense to us if we were to change this in 48 61 then for example the CPI routers could actually you know send erase on the local network to actually disable completely disable the prefix that has become stale another thing that we discuss in the document has to do with the lifetime of the prefix information options for example if you look up the default lifetimes they are normally in the order of one month okay and in the context of RFC a t28 if I remember correctly for multi prefix networks the idea is normally that you\u0027d somehow tie each prefix to the router that advertised it why because if you have many routers and you\u0027re using many prefixes on the same network if you just send packets from a prefix to some random router they are likely to be a grace filter so one of the things we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:22",
    "text": "discuss in the document is to cut the lifetime of the pls to the router lifetime and the current version of the idea also suggests sending more freaking arrays which based on discussion among a number of folks it\u0027s a no-go but since it\u0027s in D ID I mention it I\u0027m mentioning this in this slide comments Tim Berners UNH Iowa so well my one question about this forty eight sixty one allows for invalidating lifetimes that are less than two hours so everything we tests you know we give it a lifetime it\u0027s less than two hours if you send it 0 it will invalidate it right it\u0027s only when you send at lifetimes greater than two hours that it won\u0027t let you drop it to directly to zero right so some people for flashier a numbering basically drop their prefix lifetimes the less than two hours and then they can invalidate all of the all of those rules that have to do with lifetime are all based around the two hour if it\u0027s longer than two hours if it\u0027s shorter than two hours you can just invalidate it using slack only preferred lifetimes I think it\u0027s both I\u0027d have to go back and look but my memory of this is that it\u0027s both lifetimes that if they\u0027re less than two hours you can wipe it out right so this is to prevent the deal here is for denial of service attack you just have to set it higher than two like two hours and then you won\u0027t run into this problem excuse me you say that they don\u0027t if you send the RAS with life\u0027s ten small contours they just no no what happens with the if you set it for more than two hours and then you give it a value of let\u0027s say five seconds it\u0027ll drop it to two hours so if you had it set to twelve hours and then you decided to drop it you send it five seconds it will drop it to two hours in some cases some of the implementations will do that okay well yeah the thing is that either way you know if the RAS with lifetimes smaller than two hours were honored then that would allow for example the CPU rotors that have recorded the least prefix on stable storage to actually disable this thing prefix on the local rate and that\u0027s what you\u0027re gonna have to put in there some sort of text around that because in the case of less than two hours you don\u0027t really have this problem in the case of over two hours you have to do something yes that that\u0027s gonna be the problem sorry Richard Patterson on that note it\u0027s so we already have preferred lifetime so I think that\u0027s what the document says around less than two hours so fell a lifetime cannot be reduced below two hours but the preferred lifetime can so with with sending preferred lifetime of 0 we can deprecated the addresses and that mostly solves this problem what I think the suggestion to adapt 48.61 to allow valid lifetime zero the only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:23",
    "text": "problem that that solves is the one you mentioned about having too many hairdressers in the deprecated State bound to the interface so for hosts that have too many the valid lifetime would solve that but that\u0027s the only thing it was that was the only thing that will solve them can\u0027t already solved with preferred lifetime yeah there\u0027s two things so on one hand if you cannot let\u0027s say completely remove the addresses yeah you can hit the you know system limit on the maximum number of configure a dresses then the other thing is that if you cannot completely remove the addresses if you for some reason you might say it\u0027s unlikely but you wouldn\u0027t be able to communicate with a new owner of the prefix yeah is that such a big problem that we need to update 48 61 I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s a big problem yeah Andrew McGregor on the reduce pio lifetimes I don\u0027t recall whether there is anywhere in the air see in any RFC that it says that if you are redistributing a prefix that you have learned through either slack or DHCP that you should set its lifetime to somewhat less than half of the lifetime of the lease you have on it but it really should sorry I don\u0027t remember if we read distributing prefixes there is something that says that you should set the lifetime to less than half of the lifetime of the lease you have on it I think that the only payment that is out there is that the lifetime of the pios should never be longer than the lease lifetime that\u0027s it they should really be listen half because of the semantics of DHCP and there isn\u0027t a similar thing with you know the previous point about invalidating prefixes with slack it\u0027s it has the same issue mmm-hmm Jim Joan yeah just to echo what Richard said at the mic just now also we idea remember many many years ago when we had the common problem of hosts forming a six to four address from Microsoft address sharing the people turning that on and not realizing the impact on the v6 network we had a little demon that sat on the network basically sent out Ras with zero preferred life times essentially deprecated those things I mean principle you could use that kind of thing here but it\u0027d be a bit of a hat can be you never know where there\u0027s another router that\u0027s issuing these things you could do something where if you saw a packet with a certain source address to say oh that\u0027s no longer a valid source and try and deprecated it but I think the problem here is there\u0027s lots of things you could do that would be pretty hacky that\u0027s there\u0027s some heuristics you can apply and there\u0027s a one end this heuristics at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:24",
    "text": "the other end there\u0027s hacky and I\u0027m just a little bit nervous that there\u0027s going to be some very more hacky things proposed here that are gonna cause problems beyond their the worse than what were actually trying to fix well in I would say that you know in a situation in which you don\u0027t have the CPA router you know telling you that the perfect has become stale you are in your somehow trying to infer that that\u0027s the case you know based on the conversations that we had like you know yesterday and today so for example in the IDE what we do is open percept of a few arrays with a pios other than the previous prefix first we unprofor the address so it\u0027s not that we remove it completely from scratch and then when we receive a few more what we do is we remove the addresses but there have been other proposals such as instead of reacting in that way try to check the prefix try to check whether that prefix is still valid for example by sending a packet to yourself but forwarding it to the nesco brother so if it looks back that\u0027s an indication that the prefix is still valid so it would be like if you want like a more conservative reaction than they want that you know we have an idea and it\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s directed perfectly fine so conservative certainly sounds good I think we\u0027ll be good to document for any of these heuristics or whatever you want to call them you know the constraints that apply to them whether it\u0027s for a single root situation multiple rooters whether you\u0027re multihomed or not yeah the other thing is what we do even in what we have in dedi is we only let\u0027s say I\u0027m prefer or or remove the address if it\u0027s being advertised by that single router so we are considering the case in which multiple routers are advertising the same prefix in that case what we do is we kind of like disassociate the prefix with that specific router but that doesn\u0027t mean that we are removing the address so we try to accommodate the case where the same prefix is being advertised by multiple routers journaling Cova so yeah I\u0027m also been concerned that we apply and kind of hike a workaround to deal with broken routers or administrative miss configuration so I think it\u0027s a bit to have a solution especially taking into account that completely changes logic of processing erase when you when you do not receive some information it does not mean it\u0027s active anymore so you basically suggesting totally changing the logic so I think that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:24",
    "text": "changing the defaults of record anyway at lifetimes totally does make sense I believe we actually should have done it long time ago because seven days and one months it\u0027s like doesn\u0027t make any sense from operational perspective I believe it should be something similar so preferred lifetime by default should be similar to router lifetime avoided lifetime should be I don\u0027t know twice preferred lifetime or something like that so it\u0027s definitely shouldn\u0027t be a month and this I believe would solve most of the problems we should not actually introduce any upper limit because you say in copter outer lifetime in data center environment I might have one week preferred lifetime because even with my router disappears I still might want to have online communication so I think we definitely need to change defaults it would help regarding the problem of not being able to talk to unlink prefix after in ambient I\u0027m not surely not sure how big is the problem for home networks you\u0027ll most likely do not talk to your old prefix anyway much right so I don\u0027t think we really need to tweak the protocol to work around that issue and another thing shall we think about something like hey Bibles for source addresses and if you have two other addresses from different prefixes you might need you might try to do kind of head payables and see which one works and use that one it\u0027s actually also might help thinking caps to microphone lines with the people standing there now all right Eric not Marc so so one thing that isn\u0027t clear to me and this is not about what goes into our C\u0027s it\u0027s about which devices do we think make sounds tweaking all right is it fixing these routers so that they behave better and and is that something that we should write down sort of rules and if we do will they actually be updated as opposed to saying oh let\u0027s figure out some workaround hacky or not where the host can actually be more resilient towards those or are we gonna end up doing both of them to deal with this stuff it\u0027s not clear how much sort of energy to put into this stuff and where people are likely to fix their implementations well if we had a good feel for that you know then it sort of would be more fruitful to explore what are the best approaches for doing that stuff that that move us forward and sort of short term you know things we can do short term as opposed to longer term I need to make this better Jimmy data regarding the default lifetimes of the prefix I think there\u0027s some probably confusion I agree that the current protocol default is probably wrong but in this particular model I suspect it doesn\u0027t have much because it\u0027s more likely that the router simply "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:26",
    "text": "copies or what advertised from the prefix delegation so I think if we want to change something that should be the default setting of the prefix delegation lifetime rather than a selfie default prefix laughter so Tim do you want the last comments just just one thing that Fernando and I spoke with each other about before this session was that since there\u0027s been so much interest in his draft we could use the Wednesday time for the people interested in meeting the smaller room and talk this out as well I think you know phenomenal you could send an invite for that I think that\u0027s thirteen twenty on Wednesday I don\u0027t know if there are any free rooms but we can you know find a bar if if nothing else but Tim do you want to pay attention I was just gonna say maybe we can tease out what could be done here into at least three categories one of just best practices and recommendations for operators one is sort of what implementers might do and the third one is are there actual changes to existing specifications that are needed so maybe trying to think of the different categories of things that can be done name yeah yep super we had close to my alberni but yeah super and let\u0027s see free we do that Wednesday session as well and we can bring these things up super thanks a lot Fernando and we\u0027ll squeeze in one more session today because safar has to leave for family reasons on on Friday so we\u0027ll do that five minutes now thank you so far yeah so I\u0027ll go quickly so this is a work that is done with different vendors and Lee Dobbs and as long as with Mia this is this work it started about one and a half years ago so this I have presented it earlier at six men at this cup of times and also a couple of times as spraying so I believe the body is very very aware of the work and at the moment we there are deployment that exists and there is also a draft that was published by Satoru this morning and that was regarding former update to these deployments so this draft has been deployed at least in multiple networks and additional deployments are coming so from implementation point of view there is a large number of platforms where we have shipping code for the for the draft as well as there was the Interop activity that was done multi-vendor Interop activity and that activity result for that would be showcased in in place for Congress next month in terms of summary of the draft at the moment is it basically just reuses the existing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:27",
    "text": "ICMP mechanism for use cases of onn in a service six network it also defines the service flags obeyed the opiate was initially defined in the SRS Draft but as part of the comments during last call this got moved out of resides us and this draft actually define it exit at the exact same location because there are Hardware implementation that is using the act it today and it also defined 200 nm said and the purpose of that set is to punt the packet either without time is frame or with time stamp and it also defined use case for in been you am using a Suresh TV form assembly of use cases it has ping for both the end to end and segment by segment traceroute end to end a segment a segment and or actually hopper hopper segment by segment in when UNM and pot monitoring for the discussion on when one in packets of a piggyback in the actual data traffic distrust the excuse of SR htlv and it is very important to note that nodes not all nodes that would be along the route for in when when M will be capable of processing tell wheeze or onm TL B\u0027s so for that matter it is really up decision on the local said the definition of the locus said would know whether the locus said is able to or should process the own n TLV and in if the local set is such that the node supports it and it is defined that way to look at will be then the look up to the TLD will happen so this is as opposed to any other option that exists through either destination option on hop hop and this is why it\u0027s very important to keep that TLV and the use case for the tail v is properly defined here there was a discussion to that effect earlier from next step because of the multiple deployment and probably a status like the six men to adopt this job there has been some discussion whether this block belong to six men or spring but I think is very clear that this is really in its expand because of the OPA designation because the TL we use case so we really believe that this is in six men I don\u0027t know if years had chance to talk about that but I mean I think that\u0027s I think pretty clear so I really like the working of chair to a start at option for poll and asked asked the room in terms of the interests in in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:27",
    "text": "taking on this particular taking on this world and then once the working would take on this word then we start working on it in a collaborative fashion more cooperative fashion and address address your comments okay as we have discussed that a little bit and I think we\u0027ll hold off with any other draft and we\u0027d finished the bass segment routing document and then we can do another option call on the mailing list when when that\u0027s that\u0027s done so thank you thank you so far and traditionally we would have said see you in Montreal but since we now have two sessions we\u0027ll see you on Friday and the blue sheets please can you pass those forward please well you haven\u0027t gotten the blue sheets oh my god that\u0027s a procedural failure we\u0027ll see if we can fix that where are the blue sheets the back can you bring them up front here please one very quick additional comment one of the scheduled and not scheduled agenda things around PVD stuff is being presented in interior later so that\u0027s potentially of interest to folks in this room so if you\u0027re interested in some of that work yeah head over there later so you send an email there\u0027s an email on the six man list on that fact as well right yeah super thank you [Music] [Music] "
  }
]