[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:17",
    "text": "[Music] do you need our illustris ad oh I was supposed to do something [Music] Ben\u0027s non-air IDs there was one occasion and Ibaka catering if he was making ghetto killer margaritas [Music] that architecture questions about the DNS resolution for clients attempting to pass a captive portal that are using dota voh do something that somehow perhaps magically permitted I mean if there is a camera coral passing phase they really ought to use the network or network assigned to us servers lists on the basis that actually can throw portals in tinkles names thank you [Music] everyone is it oh yeah it\u0027s a way of healing included I\u0027m waiting for Adam are we gonna all right I guess we\u0027ll get underway welcome to cap book if this is uh you\u0027re here for something else you can stay but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:18",
    "text": "white wine Evie wait what\u0027d you expect please note well the things that are worth noting well which is all of it you should have seen this many times before I know well let\u0027s see we have a Patrick thank you for taking minutes do we have a jabber scribe do we have anybody on jabber Thank You Ted well we\u0027re in tcp slow-start does anybody have agenda bashing welcome welcome your solutions [Music] smells like what no no updates to the internet already so before we start I wanted to point out that I will be handing this working group off to bury this evening on the plenary stage so this is this is your new area director say hello to Barry that I chartered that you guys started it there should be blue sheets somewhere please um we need to start another second sheet does somebody know where the blue sheets are the very back let\u0027s let\u0027s just go back there\u0027s still "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:21",
    "text": "people filing in welcome to capture portals you should have seen this note well before please note as well any questions blue sheets agenda bashing it\u0027s a remarkably full room already carrying on so this is breakfast to this we\u0027ve talked about updating 7710 in the past and in the absence of volunteers Eric has worked with Warren to produce a biz document and so I\u0027ll be assessing whether or not the group has consensus to adopt or what have you after this but keep in mind this is something we\u0027ve discussed in the past let\u0027s see all right eat the mic okay so these are all the changes from 7710 that I\u0027ve been sort of slowly trickling in over the months the things that we originally intended to do were clarify that IP string literals are in fact not recommended that the URA option should be that of the capture portal endpoint that capture portals may do content negotiation I mean we weren\u0027t aware of anybody actually using this option in the wild but if they are they might have used the captive portal option to be the the HTML user interface URI you can so there\u0027s some text about content negotiation in there which we\u0027ll ask about later I had text about cap before old URI precedents because we added another way to get the capture portal URI and I thought maybe it was worth having some text so describe what to do in the event of a network configuration error maybe that text should just be something else you have an order of preference thing well yeah I had an order of preference in the document yes it\u0027s but what I did not do was choose an order of preference among address family specific things so network choose the option given to you by the network first then choose the the option given to you by the link relation I think or PVD rather and then the link relation but within the network specific things I didn\u0027t order before before v6 or v6 before before or anything like that no that\u0027s that\u0027s cool let\u0027s see we added a you this idea a request to the I honor to allocate this you RN that says the you can put in place of the capture portal option instead of an HTTP URL or something you can just include this that says you should be free to go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:21",
    "text": "and then in discussions with a captive portal vendor they said it was hard in some time some cases to change the on link infrastructure they wouldn\u0027t want to change the DHCP infrastructure and that it would be better if they could just intercept things if they could continue to use the HTTP intercept to redirect and include something like a link relation header in there to indicate where the capture portal API was so we added that along with some texts saying don\u0027t ever interpret this in any other context except when deliberately probing for captive portals so I\u0027m not an HTTP person I don\u0027t know if the content negotiation text looks reasonable I don\u0027t know what people think about the order of precedence in cuvette to this configuration or what other people would like to do if this is incomplete I think most of the issues on the github have basically been closed except to make sure that the final diff from 7710 section is up-to-date does anybody else has anybody read it does anybody have any thoughts does anybody like the font yeah okay oh great the Martins justifies I think target folly Apple so yeah I have read the document I think it\u0027s good I think we should adopt it because we\u0027ve discussed this before and I think it\u0027s the right solution to this problem I would also volunteer to kind of review it more in-depth I\u0027ve read it and it\u0027s like it\u0027s reasonable I back into a more fine tooth coming of it as well as we have a discipline group document if we decide to do that thank you I noticed a mark nodding he was sitting there would you be okay to look at the content negotiation text in here just to make sure it\u0027s saying okay I\u0027ll do that Thanks and anyone else willing to throw their head in in terms of reviewing things we now have quite a number of different mechanisms described in the one draft all sort of fall into the same backup we get dhcp we\u0027ve got our A\u0027s we\u0027ve got this doesn\u0027t cover the the PVD thing but it\u0027s awesome but it does cover the interception cases as well and so it would be good to have a look at it from a holistic level to make sure that that the whole thing makes sense or the individual pieces make sense so any kept immortal vendors anyone willing to stick their hands up for a read through the document and email to the mailing list saying what you think thirty minutes of your time thank you look at this we got him volunteering cross sorts of things thanks for all night then or the minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:22",
    "text": "note that Ted lemon will be reviewing this document Thank You Ted and Tommy thank you there are blue sheets up here by the way this one you know this one - Jacques has also agreed to review score so unfortunately we don\u0027t have our volunteer editors for the architecture draft with us today there are a couple of issues that we might get time to discuss at the end there are five omissions issues on the draft that I would like to have a little bit of a discussion about later on in the session hopefully Suresh is unable to join us either so we\u0027ll see how that works out but I think it\u0027s close and again we\u0027re gonna need people to do the reviewing thing so we\u0027ll make that request later once we\u0027ve had a bit of a discussion about the open issues on on on the draft another thing we\u0027re going to Tommy look at that insert presentation here all right I am Tommy dark just not here in person but I\u0027m speaking for him also as a editor we\u0027ve done some updates to the API a document this should be pretty quick thank you so I just want to cover what were the changes that we did make in the O 2 version we did add a terminology section there was already a terminology section in the architecture document but we wanted to extend it for the purpose of the API to say what are our clients in the API server specifically we did some editorial passes to converge on calling things clients rather than hosts because multiple things in this setup can be hosts and it was unclear which ones were which we added a consideration about white listing and TP if you are trying to validate your certificates you should probably have a way to validate your time on the network as well that would be good and there are some edits to the JSON keys that the API server can serve up we had agreed last time to switch the notion of you are permitted on this captive network to flip the boolean meaning to be you are captive and we also added a vendor info URL I think dark headed that we have some comments on clarifying that that we got from Kyle so we got a nice good review from Kyle and so we\u0027re going to be updating those again so the next steps that we have are to incorporate the review that we got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:23",
    "text": "recently just this week other than that it seems to be fairly stable we\u0027d love to get more reviews we\u0027ve done some implementation playing around but would be nice I think to get more concrete implementation experience so if people have a captive portal set up that they would like to mock out and I\u0027d be happy to provide a client for that and we can do some Interop testing on that I think that would be useful to do before we say yes we are done but I think other than that modulo review these documents are in pretty cheap so their questions comments so you have about 8,000 issues on the github related to this some of the Merdan new ish I think some of them actually you mention here and I could see comments on them suggesting that they\u0027ve been closed so yeah I can do a pass of those to make sure that any ones that we have fixed our closed how many I\u0027d say a couple of relatively recent how many do you think we have open left I see a couple them are editorial but yeah yeah a couple of them are you can you can bring issue bashing all right so this first one is one of the very new ones that we got based off of Kyle\u0027s review just to make it more in line with the architecture document Eric opened one to update the JSON URL reference thank you for that so we can do that very quickly the vendor page your eye is added so that should be closed we do want to add some more clarification text so that will probably become a new issue the NTP one is done the bytes remaining I think there were some comments still on that from Kyle\u0027s review so I think our edits to the text there are not sufficient to clear up all things that we\u0027ll probably want to do another pass at that we did a flip to permitted bit we did add text around checking with API again and we don\u0027t require the user portal URL so I think we have essentially like four issues left open after this I think we were gonna talk about bytes remaining layer two or layer three do people have feelings about that yeah discuss them the working group do you all have preference for whether "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:23",
    "text": "it should be layer two layer three bytes I mean I think the probably the main guiding point here would be if we have insight into what captive portals actually do for blocking if they have data limits on your traffic are they generally doing this in terms of which yeah in terms of which layer they\u0027re doing it and if we are not sure should we make that part of the name do we have any vendors here I think we can certainly say that it must be something that the device itself can count right the device doesn\u0027t know what other sorts of tunneling overhead may be added as it went its way through the network but it\u0027s Chris seal that if it\u0027s relevant from an operator point of view tenancy portals also applied because if you\u0027ve run out of credit we would block until such time for prepaid until you pay but in that case all the control plane would not count towards any point no it would be purely what the user sees in terms of the data it can you define how you are splitting up the control trap well they all know did it okay your layer you never see it so there\u0027s a control plane for the sticking on a mobile network sure and then there\u0027s tunneling but the tunneling overheads are not counted as parts of the points remaining that they are because they\u0027re stripped before they actually get to the phone they\u0027re only across the core network so if the client counts up the length of all of its IP packets that should correlate to what you\u0027re considering to be use yeah a layer three I mean yeah use the plane layer three would be what what the user what the ue sees but there is an issue with in-plane captor port yeah in plane capture portal bytes right so in other words the the bytes that you send in order to interact with the capture portal periodically do they account they do not count you need to be able to account for them separately or you\u0027re gonna over count which is maybe also fine I would imagine that things that are white listed within the captive portal network should not count against the limits and maybe we should add but the client doesn\u0027t know what those things are necessarily well we know the things that are intentionally to the captive portal API server itself but you\u0027re right things that may be probes may or may not be categorized by the portal as user traffic depending on how its interpreted so I guess I would do every "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:23",
    "text": "other inputs this yeah John Sherlock would have cool I was thinking that if this is teamed to possibly Bistro faced to use to the user in the UI if it\u0027s layer two is going to be completely impossible for user to relate to right if if I know I have 100 minimize remaining and I want you to ninety megabytes download let\u0027s say you two bytes that doesn\u0027t help at all I mean layer three bytes don\u0027t necessarily help you a ton either because that\u0027s not really your the download of your file size but I think it is much more practical I believe like when we show you the cellular data that you have used on your iPhone that\u0027s going to be in terms of those packets packet counter so I think that\u0027s something that people are used to seeing so at this point based on the feedback I\u0027d lean towards just saying you want to do layer three bytes and then have a comment about whitelist of traffic ingress or egress yes so the sum of both this matters because different networks made of these things differently yeah Eric Kinnear I just I think what Eric said about it\u0027s better to over count them to under count I\u0027m not sure we can assume that an operator is actually properly whitelisting the he\u0027s properly not counting the things that are otherwise we would consider whitelisted mm-hm and it\u0027s unlikely to make a huge difference in what the user actually sees unless somebody\u0027s really nickel and dime there are given I think it\u0027s a layer tree on it\u0027s only one that it really makes sense because I don\u0027t think layer to fractional Wi-Fi or not thick we actually know that information crystals kind of accent all kind of extra stuff that is added there that you don\u0027t know about or know the management dissociation Association messages are so I don\u0027t know if actually operating system gets information about how many bytes don\u0027t shine you\u0027re using most of them happens in far firmer you may or may not have it yet do you have any opinions about the ingress egress thing other than just saying we add the total is airing the totals sufficient okay we have thumbs up I think that\u0027s rough consensus yeah I get to say that um yeah it\u0027s rough consensus you you have you much you have some you have some something to base this on anything else so that we want to talk about you know see if there\u0027s another one that requires the discussion here that\u0027s done that\u0027s done that\u0027s done that\u0027s done that just needs to work yeah we think the rest of them are largely editorial so yeah I guess the there was a bit of discussion around the vendor page your I but I think that would potentially be better served by writing up some text and then sending it to the list it\u0027s a pointer to a PR sounds reasonable alright thanks Tom thank you and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:23",
    "text": "realized that I dropped the ball on the last one let\u0027s go back to the 7710 issue I would like to at least get a sense of the room does anyone think that it\u0027s a bad idea to pursue this thing I\u0027d like to to understand whether if when I send an email to the mailing list in the next little while is anyone going to tell me that it was terrible idea in a way that could have been much more succinctly expressed at the microphone okay well I might send that email now and we\u0027ll see we\u0027ll give it a couple of weeks and see it before people object how the fun part yeah so you saw there that we have a number of minor issues on the API draft I think the the plan here is for Tommy to and - to work on the next provision of that that document and our hope is to do a working group last call based on that once that\u0027s that\u0027s out we have a couple of issues but I think the ones who have discussed the phone once you get the vendor URL thing going will decide one wherever the architects draft has a number of issues as well I don\u0027t know if we can just edit the URL and put architecture at the end and there I think there are five open issues there one of them says Doug yeah this isn\u0027t not making me feel happy this is the set of issues that I would like to to spend a little bit of time discussing here today because I think based on the discussion that we\u0027ve had we either ship these things or we don\u0027t ship these things and we can make that decision based on where we are now mostly these issues I think we could get some insight on but I think we have a couple of larger issues to discuss and I think I put that in the in the slide deck that was this one here so it turns out this working group is another one of those places in the ITF where we\u0027re having this little while bun fight that people like to call a tussle there\u0027s a desire from Ted so Thomas Peterson asked me to ask at the mic on the architecture diagram is there any objection to including an annex on existing implementations I am happy to attempt writing it regarding the dough /k port discussion and then he says souther to diagram for duck that sounds excellent Thomas if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:24",
    "text": "could produce said text in the next couple of months that would be maybe maybe give us a commitment on time and we can we can work out how to deal with that I would like to assuming that we decide to proceed I would like to be able to proceed before we meet again Thomas is saying he\u0027ll do it this week I\u0027ll try it this week oh that\u0027s that\u0027s amazing I would that exceeds expectations thank you so we we have had several pieces of feedback that the simple yes/no signal that we have in the end of that I guess it\u0027s a little more than that now we have sort of bytes that were counting in and and time remaining those sorts of things we\u0027ve heard some signals from various folks that there\u0027s a lot more nuance that you could convey in the signalling from the network toward the client and networks are clearly more complex the question for the group is are we comfortable saying that we\u0027re going to ship a simplification of this status and or do we think we need to say when that works we need to be able to express the full range of different policies and and status on on what\u0027s going on so we need to split things out into egress bytes and ingress bytes and we need to say that you may go to the following destinations under the certain under the following conditions I think that and Nicola mentioned that there was a desire to express things in terms of the domain names that you might be contacting for instance for those networks that have policies around sites that you can visit and obviously there\u0027s all sorts of rules that networks try to enforce about visiting adult sites and all sorts of other things that come into this discussion as well the question for this group would be then what\u0027s the what\u0027s our level of comfort with providing a very reduced signal to the endpoints we have effectively a boolean switch in this protocol that says captive not captive do we want to have some way for networks to be able to express more than that unfortunately no other people have expressed a desire to do this or in this room is anyone does anyone have any interest in doing this now there is go where we\u0027re establishing a means of communication between the network and the endpoint sentence it\u0027s possible that we can extend this format it\u0027s Jason we can put whatever we want in there in the future should we decide it\u0027s a good idea are people comfortable with that as an escape valve on this and proceeding with the very simple signals that we have right now or would they prefer that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:24",
    "text": "block this effort on coming to some sort of resolution on these questions about drawers yes I\u0027m more comfortable with the simple approach the binary yes no can I say more about why yeah I don\u0027t think we have good examples of why more information is necessary and even if so is it essential to the function of the captive portal signal I don\u0027t think so so I might point out one of the arguments has been present another one of the arguments is being presented in favor of a boolean signal is that you have the ability to communicate with people using the webpage and that allows you a great deal of expression yeah it\u0027s not machine readable so it\u0027s not actionable in that sense but I mean the list of domain names that are permitted even if you have north satisfied the captive portal conditions can be just simply listed on the URL that you\u0027re presenting already there\u0027s already a requirement that you need to have a web browser and that so what else is necessary that I don\u0027t I\u0027m not necessarily requiring that you have a web browser networks networks might be able to require that for this the architectures more or less assumes that you have one yes Tommy Polly so not really commenting on this because I think I agree with the simple view that\u0027s why we have what we have today I agree that the outlet for this is that we can extend the keys in the future looking at the document I realize that we don\u0027t define the mechanism for extension right now the JSON keys are listed they are not listed it\u0027s not an i anna registry that we\u0027re creating it doesn\u0027t specify anything about extension so we can either leave it as as is but that\u0027s rather ambiguous we can define a way to extend it without actually providing registry or we could define the registry with the current keys and the process for extending it and that could be expert review or whatever we want there such that if people need an outlet especially if a captive portal vendor wants to add something that\u0027s a well-known thing and we get enough people wanting to do that then we can actually add these in I don\u0027t know what our thoughts out there so we believe that extension is desirable then I think we probably need to have an eye on a registry otherwise we\u0027ll end up with a uncoordinated mess I already have okay so now we have a few issues for potami "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:25",
    "text": "to fix for us does anyone else want to speak under this point so one thing I\u0027d like to do before we move on is get a sense of the room about moving forward with this plan and whether we should go with what we have and simply fix the issues that we have which I think we just saw a relatively minor or whether we need to go back and more fully engage on this topic so that we can come up with some answer to this to this question about networks telling telling devices that enter those networks the more about the terms of their confinement to use the terms from the from the the Charter so I guess the first question will be and I\u0027ll ask people to hum because this is silly this is a relatively sensitive topic the first question will be should we proceed with the simple signal that we currently have and the next question will be we should continue to engage with finding a solution to more complex signals well our networks to express their their policies more fully okay so anyone who would prefer to proceed with the current simple signals please hum now anyone who thinks that we need to continue to work on providing more nuanced and and expressive ways for networks to express their policies please hum now I can hear the sirens in the background that was pretty clear the eyes have it I guess and we will proceed with what we have I will confirm that on the list of course and hopefully once the editors of these documents have sorted out those few remaining issues we\u0027ll talk about working that last call for those if we do not do that by Montreal some people will get some slaps and various other things I think that there\u0027s probably pretty reasonable to expect that the changes that we reviewed for the API document can happen in a relatively short amount of time and I don\u0027t know what sirisha status is but he\u0027s promised some time on this and all we\u0027ve chairs will consult with him and make sure that we can get get the the last few issues on the on the architecture updated and of course it if Thomas provides us with extra text that\u0027s just that\u0027s just gravy so okay well short and sweet and AOB thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:27",
    "text": "you everyone you have the rest of your time to yourselves go do something productive Oh what is the front line oh ho ho there it sits on Google slides it\u0027s a very important piece of business there from Adam you like it right yeah we can work on that thank you all if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheets please do does anybody know where the blue sheets are blue sheets yeah if anyone hasn\u0027t signed the blue sheets please do so now and make sure they get to the chairs please "
  }
]