[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "Mike Mike come on down welcome to the beer working group IAT f-104 this mic is not loud enough I can\u0027t step on you guys and sake from talking even ice isn\u0027t what\u0027s not the time button louder louder louder louder that better we saw people porn in its nicely shut the door we\u0027re in the elevator corridor which means it\u0027ll be loud out there and will be loud for them we\u0027re kind of packed in here I apologize for the delays on the agenda I think my my gmail account is sewed I can\u0027t hear it I need a louder mic alright that works my gmail was bouncing and then some people you know send stuff to Cisco and things like that but I got to straighten out I believe I think the agenda is correct now I got everyone\u0027s deck up we have two sessions so if there\u0027s a whole huge gap I think we have some time to squeeze things in if I miss them but I believe everything\u0027s up there as of now I apologize - this is a first thing in the morning so many of you I\u0027ve not seen yet so you don\u0027t this handshakes and hugs and catching up and now it\u0027s like let\u0027s go so noted blue sheets we have have someone taking minutes already thank you very much had a volunteer step up right away how about jabber scribe into a non jabber has like serious passion for jabber and would love to participate if you laughed at that I gave you a call so somebody anyone on jabber right now nobody\u0027s on jabber can we see okay I was gonna volunteer you but I loved like you jumped in on your own that\u0027s awesome all right all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "noted note well noted a lot of nods I\u0027m gonna wake yet should we call for coffee all right agenda take a look it\u0027s missing like I said shout we timeslot part me right to my mouth like this I am your father so the next on the agenda is Stig is mr. Stig here beautiful wonderful all right all right so since okay all right so this is about the Imperium to discovery so the draft has adopted since last meeting the idea is to find some stable MTU that can be used within an a beer domain with regardless oh oh the path that is taken there\u0027s a lot of drafts about path MTU discovery in this working group as well but this this is different from that next slide during adoption there are a couple of issues raised one is how to deal with the tunnels if you want to bypass a nom de router might do an MPLS source interpreting tunnel or something and if you do that then the MTU that tunnel might be less than the MTU all the rest of your peer domain so we need to figure out how to deal with that one option is to just announce the eternal MTU and just say that whatever tunnel our head you have for that tunnel who also affect other traffic in the beer domain which may not be good but that\u0027s something we can discuss another thing is you with this forum to you across different IDP areas and reading the eye science and ours yeah RFC\u0027s it\u0027s kind of hard for me to tell are we are we selling beer prefixes across areas or not it seems to be kind of optional whether to do that so yes so and so basically if you want to encapsulate beer traffic to do a beer egress router you need to learn a beer prefix so that router and being how to encapsulate the traffic and you know what its certain whatever so if you if you receive the beer prefix then you would also receive this sub tle that includes them to you so it seems to me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "that you know the the documents talked about flooding domain and so on but it\u0027s not quite clear what the flooding domain might be less ginsburg so at least for i sighs i think early versions of the draft we didn\u0027t support it and then we decided to support it so we definitely do support advertising it\u0027s called the node address yeah it\u0027s not an optional thing whether you leaky that crust well it\u0027s subject to configuration typically a most alimentation right so so at least my my understanding is if you leak those prefixes then you can learn em to you as well if you don\u0027t do that then you would obviously mop with you this sub gles so I mean the caveat here as far as into you is you don\u0027t have to Paulo G information about the other areas so you don\u0027t have information about you know what links here but if you\u0027re talking about the new sub TLV yeah yeah yeah so as long as to receive that the beer prefix you would also receive the sub tMI\u0027s that but include the MTU correctly yeah so so next worse than the draft we need to have some text think card find issues and I know if people have any other issue still on erase so I apologize for not trying to address some of this in the last version of than to get some discussion on the list them and how\u0027s the new versa before the next meeting all right I think if if these are the only issues people have and they concluded on how to solve them before the next meeting then potentially the next idea yeah yeah thanks for great comments on the adoption call right but yes I tried to start some threads to discuss this on the other list so love skins burr yeah so apologies I may not have been keeping up but and we made some decision about because there\u0027s there\u0027s the path into discovery draft as well are the fates of these two things linked at all or if we decided just to treat them as independent oh yeah at least my my take on the italics also it\u0027s mentioned in this draft is that this username to you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:11",
    "text": "that works for the entire domain which can be like a safe like minimal MTU to use but if you want you for certain traffic or maybe all traffic to the apartment you discovery to find like a more optimal and that\u0027s possible I think that\u0027s okay but but it\u0027ll be good if either draft or both drafts have some text explaining the relationship to the other yeah or at least we need to clarify by strap for two different empties no no I I just I know both so both drafts are now working group drafts but I didn\u0027t track whether there was some conditional like as to how they should progress yeah I\u0027m not actually suggesting anything I just have my suspicions that some people may like one solution a lot better than the other and I don\u0027t know what the proportion is and so there might be some people who say why are we doing both I don\u0027t a Greg as chair I think the suggestion Stig had was that each have a different use case but we need to document in each one why this use case is unique and needs a separate mechanism that way and reference the other dot it\u0027s at least that way if someone\u0027s going somewhere and don\u0027t find what they need they see there\u0027s another MTU solution for path as a post area some reasonable documentation purposes anyone follow along see that think that\u0027s found sounds reasonable do you think we should be merged who thinks keeping them separate but referencing their use case and the other document is sufficient raise your hand who thinks that\u0027s not sufficient all right you think they should be put together all right say takers so we have one vote for together and my half a dozen that should merge or excuse me suffered so we\u0027ll take that delicious for confirmation thank you I think what we\u0027ll need is that text to confirm the text is clear and then we\u0027ll take a book from there Oh ad hat watch out hey lady it would be great for me personally not very where else if you progress both drafts together if they don\u0027t both go through so that you know when we get somewhere you don\u0027t have to remember that three months ago some other draft similar it went through and all the questions why are they not one and the other so they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:12",
    "text": "can go together it\u0027ll be great thank you the ad has spoken yeah let\u0027s catch it let\u0027s let\u0027s make sure it\u0027s caught up in the it\u0027s caught in the minutes okay please battery oh then maybe they dropped in almost a penny all right yeah just an ad that got some pros and cons with both solutions so we should make sure we have some text on that too so people have some advice or idea which which solution is you know suited and so on yep all right so the other draft I\u0027m presenting is the MLB Draft I don\u0027t have any slides for that nothing has happened to the draft for school ITX and think we are ready for working group last call what is we needs people to help review the document and give us some input on what to do with it so often calling last call brings those conversations to to a head so I think we are at that point kind of quiet so who\u0027s read the alt key wrap push it MLD dress yeah I should add that nothing has changed for maybe not politics or something so those read who thinks it\u0027s ready for last call all right but the notes show the same reader said it was ready for call so we\u0027ll take that to list for final vote and run okay thanks [Music] unless are you in that extension yeah I think fales morning this is central from Huawei India so I\u0027m going to present the graph that we have returned to advertise the beer Ethan cap capabilities by our GP so let\u0027s get started it\u0027s like this yeah we all knew that beer eat is one of the encapsulation options to deploy beer in non MPLS Ethernet networks like beer MPLS track your software hardware upgrade so the be of us supporting be at each end cap must advertise this capability along with the other required parameters so that the other be of us in the domain can learn it and then decide whether to include or exclude such a beer each capable node for the path so this draft defines the record extensions to is is and OSPF to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:12",
    "text": "advertise the endcap capability so how to advertise pretty straightforward we can add a new sub sub TLV which can be carried within the beer sub domain TL pretty much similar to MPLS n cap as you can see it\u0027s possible that a beer sub domain may support more than one beer in cap type so in that case the different end caps should share the same beer sub domain parameters like beer for ID be a our IP algorithms and also the selection of encapsulation type to be used at the ingress node are by the transmit nodes at each hop is up to the local policy so that\u0027s something is outside the scope of far off extract this so yeah the presence of a TL we can you know identify whether the node is capable I mean beer it\u0027s capable or not that\u0027s fine so what exactly to advertise within the TLB let\u0027s have a look at beer MPLS n cap it\u0027s pretty much same that we are going to do here as well the first thing is we should advertise the bits England that supporter and for this end cap number of said supporter for this bitch tingling same as smacks si in beer mpls case and be aft ID for each set I mean like that\u0027s the only difference that we see that in case of MPLS world we used to advertise the labels here it would be twenty bit Oh pack B aft ID so let\u0027s talk more about B aft ID out of CA 296 specifies that be AF the ID in non MPLS networks is a domain wide unique value and it\u0027s not expected to change at each hops after be a fast forward the packet so do we think it\u0027s really required to advertise the B aft ID because anyway so domain wide unique value it\u0027s not going to change at each hops we do think that it\u0027s better to advertise the be aft ID for two reasons one is there are more than one possible ways to encode or generate the B aft IDs right so for example the draft non MPLS B aft encoding describes two possible methods particularly since there are more than one ways to generate and assign the VFD IDs it\u0027s better to advertise so that you know just in case if there is a provisioning mistakes we would be able to detect it automatically and you know the note should be able to let\u0027s say you know exclude the node from the path maybe raise an alarm so that\u0027s one thing the second thing is we think that the beer architecture can be maybe extended in future to support Nando made wide unique be aft IDs as well so in that case also it\u0027d be nice to you know advertise the VFD ID just like what we have done for MPLS so yeah once we say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:17",
    "text": "that we have to advertise one like let\u0027s let\u0027s see how we like what\u0027s next so in beer MPLS world foreign sub domain and BSL path contiguous labels are allocated and we advertise only the base label all right so this ways we avoided signaling each labels i mean like a label per set instead we just used to advertise only the base labels and eventually the signaling is simplified should the VAF PID in non MPLS networks be contiguous similar to MPLS label not necessarily but we think that just to make the IGP signaling simpler and you know to avoid having to advertise you know multiple tlvs advertising bft ids or each said we suggest to follow a similar approach so allocate contiguous range of vfp ids advertised only the base b FD ID and the B aft range so that\u0027s what we are proposing the existing to proposed a B aft encoding mechanisms by the other graph encodes the set identifier as the last 8 bits so I guess they it\u0027s this rule it\u0027s just that in future if we are going to come up with new encoding schemes we have to ensure that you know that\u0027s gonna follow this it\u0027s like so here we have so this is the actual I know TLB that we are proposing we have a look at it I think it\u0027s pretty much same as what we have for beer MPLS just that the lay base label is replaced with B aft ID so I think this is straightforward it\u0027s going to be carried under gear subdomain tle pretty much same for OSPF again the only difference being the base MPLS label is being replaced with base bfdi that\u0027s it from my side so please do read a draft and let us know in case of any comments or inputs we think that it\u0027s you know pretty straightforward that you know we must advertise there\u0027s no questions about that I guess maybe the only thing that we have to discuss an arrived consensus is about advertising of the B aft ID and is it okay to advertise the contiguous is it okay to you know force that we should allocate contiguous range of BFG IDs and is it enough to advertise only the base bf carries sorry we are battery issues who\u0027s read the draft currently who thinks it\u0027s ready for working for adoption all right we got some would support who thinks it\u0027s not ready for adoption I see no one okay let the note so zero for know pretty much room support for those who read let\u0027s take it to the list thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:20",
    "text": "Tony P so uncommon I think the draft would benefit from addition of something that explains that the beefed IDs in MPLS and this draft they th are completely unrelated so the same value does not mean it\u0027s the same gift ID but because it\u0027s also completely symmetric which is you know wonderful but I think it\u0027s very easy to confuse especially since you advertise the morning the same softy always right when the values repeat to explain that those are completely different gift ideas in the same value maybe use important mean something a little different there\u0027s one sentence but I think will prevent people from doing you know pretty crazy stuff on the implementation okay good morning everybody so I\u0027m presenting this big bear multicast overlay for HTTP response and this is the current status of this graph it is recently has been adopted and in terms of what has been covered till now is just a quick recap so we have been with what it starts off from the realization of the use case that is in the BR use cases document a reference architecture and the realization of the multicast overlay has been described over IP MC as well as beer and then we try to compare both and then we go into little bit details about the realization over beer and add some operational details we go to the next slide so again this is the reference architecture that has been described there which shows how this overlay can be achieved in terms of the functionalities that are shown in the red are the service and lured function typically on the bhe BF ER and BF IR and we there is also a PCE which is can be tied together with the beer T next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:22",
    "text": "slightly in terms of some of the details functioning with reference to the architecture is some of the deployment options has been described how the service handler can be deployed along with BF ER and bf IR and it also includes a description that the work has been done at DVD and BB F and try to kind of again bring some comparison there and also some operational procedures has been updated so in terms of the next steps basically we are trying to get some feedback as well as what we can due to extend or some of the capture some of the details so we thought of some other interesting use cases that kind of fits here and those are listed like something like a file replication in CDN another interesting use case is software updates using HTTP which is very common something related to OTS over there updates and also very futuristic recently there has been a focus group in itu-t which describes network 2030 where some of this work can be relevant or tied to that work there and also in terms of adding certain details in terms of the how to the service handler that has been deployed in BFI are and behave here and there we we think some details can be added in terms of tube how the part ID can be dissolved to be a header and also the the PCE or the tie-in with the PRT like how the registration procedures can be done and also the interface to the beer te element so these are some of the areas that can be extend the extended so just to get some input or feedback from the working group whether anything else the working group can suggest we can consider that to add so it\u0027s basically open for your inputs and comments thank you there we go Jeffrey thanks Jeffrey from Jeff - Jennifer I\u0027m going to confuse up do you use IP for all this at all or it\u0027s three three modules IP so it is over so we are taking the HTTP responses over the beer so that is basically you know like we don\u0027t specify whether we IP is used or this typical way you know that you will deploy beer so it is an overlay of over beer overlay over here anon anon the necessary Ikey yeah it yeah [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:23",
    "text": "more questions what\u0027s the status of the draft finis it says you said you got new use cases dad yeah so it has been yeah so basically we\u0027re open to our inputs and feedbacks so these are just some possible ideas that we can add some details who\u0027s read the draft in his current form well who finds his use case is something you can help contribute to of interest so this is Jeff speaking just as chair and contributor it\u0027s it\u0027s we\u0027re at a location right now we\u0027ve got a great infrastructure in place and we\u0027re starting to see use cases come through I you know what the use case is draft is kind of expanded kind of in limbo but we\u0027re gonna keep it open to add things to it I\u0027m a little hesitant to add use cases unless we\u0027ve got operator support problems were really trying to solve instead of just like engineering sake of engineering so I like them getting out there let\u0027s get those to the list and request some input if we have some use case input the resonates with those to bring the solution to them will document it but I I\u0027m kind of isn\u0027t as a document to the sacred document I think what we\u0027ve got so far is a good use case I\u0027m going to roll in but anything I do we need support okay so absolutely as bring this back on the list I you know I hesitate to say last call but sometimes you got to do that to get people to wake up and you know it\u0027s the part of the process anyway so let\u0027s start which is bringing the thread back up see where we go from there if it\u0027s time to wrap it or to expand it that makes sense from the room no it\u0027s okay excellent thank you thank you so who named it call me nakia this is more of a try and get feedback on the changes on the draft we had some good conversations with Eric and steek and we had a couple of paragraphs into the draft so the main concern was that maybe we are not going to be able to grab all the information that is necessary to the beer header itself so it could be useful to actually have a team join a tribute added in the team signaling that specifies the sum of the beer information I\u0027d like to be a prefix the subdomain the VFR ID etc etc so we added two new attributes the attribute types are TBD by inma "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:25",
    "text": "but basically what these attributes to depend the with regardless whether it\u0027s ipv4 or ipv6 you can add this attribute we attribute to any of them and they just advertise the beer information for ipv6 or ipv4 through the PM signal so basically we just want to make sure we didn\u0027t get any comment back from the working group I just want to make sure and the other authors that this is good with everybody and if there are any other comments on this draft anything else office time okay so again with regard to the solution if there are no other other comments from our point of view it\u0027s it\u0027s complete and I just want to take the next step more questions or comments who\u0027s read the draft in this current form I will say just does reflect that lot of the comments we had I see co-authors now from the original comments so it sounds like we\u0027ve converged on something which is great who thinks this draft is ready for last call yeah so it doesn\u0027t mean it\u0027s ready to publish right remember that but if it\u0027s we think it\u0027s complete it\u0027s time to branch this out beyond the working group get more bit input so alright just let the know show that we had the readers one on call time take it to list get a comment oh look at he five hands out of well know they have been weren\u0027t readers alright Tony has to speak every once and well so we know he\u0027s awake all right you\u0027ve got the next one to Lily yeah you\u0027re back-to-back yeah trying to make it easy try to I Jenna shifted a lot this morning as new stuff was coming in and read those yeah I don\u0027t think I wanted to present this I think there was some great again conversation between myself Jeffrey and and ice so I get back together brainstorm it again and come up with the alternative solution think that conclusion am I right guys okay perfect good that\u0027s good status update thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:25",
    "text": "as its Nagendra from Cisco this draft is about OSPF VG extension to carry beer information so I\u0027m sure we\u0027ll be aware that alexey 84 44 defines the extension for OSPF we - it went under no rigorous review and this one basically inherits all those are you know TL B\u0027s and defines how it can be carried and now the relevant OS P and P 3 extender domino LSS the flooding scope and other missionaries they are almost similar to is 52 except I know the the LSA is the external does Allah says where the sake Elvis until this will be carried is different for obviously a 5 a 3 so this is the sub TLV that will be carried in intra and Inter area prefix real V\u0027s again like I said they know this is not much different from what we define for Rose 52 and this is the sorts of TLV that will be carried in beer rasa plv so the authors believe that I mean now this is pretty stable so like don\u0027t get some comments or if it is ready I just have a yes sorry my own level brain for here did the virginal OSPF fee to draft originated here but didn\u0027t it finish up in the in the other working group they did come out of here okay that makes sense yeah I move we fought back before it but where it belongs I thought the works but we finished here excellent alright so would make sense to adopt it here as well who\u0027s read the draft alright who thinks is ready for adoption yeah same set of hands okay we\u0027ll take that to the list let the notes reflect that we had a win Oh Tony didn\u0027t read it I just want to throw that out it didn\u0027t it just showed up this morning give me some yeah well who\u0027s here from Cisco right now just curious have you migrated 365 do you know you can\u0027t edit your PowerPoint if you\u0027re not on the VPN yeah my license got pulled then suddenly this morning right so I had a lot of things like this hello okay can you hear me okay hello "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "working group this these presentations about beer fast reroute next slide please this is Newton oft so what is the problem that we considered there appears an overlay routing that depends on the routing underlay the biffed entries are derived from forwarding entries in the routing and underlay and in case of failure a beers sub tree may be disconnected with all the consequences for the affected traffic and the beer traffic will be delivered again only after fast reroute in the routing underlayer has happened after reconvergence of the routing underlay has happened and after the Biff entries are reconfigured and this may take time okay we need to distinguish link failures and node failures link failures may be protected by a lower layer technologies like MPLS and address fast reroute but the counter example to that could be a simple Ethernet deployment without any without any resilience Mical mechanisms on the layer to another case our node failures they cannot be protected per se by the lower layer technology because there are failed nodes that replicate traffic and this knowledge is not available in the lower layer technology so in case of node failures in case of a node failure lower layer resilience mechanisms do not help we propose be a fast reroute as a solution with bit forwarding routers detect unreachable next stops that may be performed with the help of PFDs and the PFR then becomes a point of local repair that means the PLR takes actions for link or node protect and as a consequence affected your traffic is then delivered as soon as the routing and underlay works again for instance if we have fast fast reroute mechanism in the routing underlay this can be really really quick or at the latest after II conversions of the routing underlay then the beer traffic should be forwarded again even before the biffed entries are reconfigured next slide please so PL fast reroute link protection your fast reroute has two modes one mode is link protection and the other know the mode is node protection leak protection is really simple but it protects only against link failures so how does it work basically the PLR just tons your packets through the run routing underlay to the next stop if a failure is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "detected and then the packets arrive as soon as the routing underlay delivers packets again and this works also with with for instance with IP fast reroute why does it work or why is this a protection the tunneling deviates the beer packets through another interface but that is still up so that packets are not no longer transmit it over the fail in the face next slide okay this is about node protection node protection is more complicated and requires more sophisticated mechanism it it protects against link and node failures if the primary next WAP is not reachable the PLR uses a backup fpm forwarding bit mask and applies it to the pure packets before transmission to avoid duplicates so we cannot just use the normal fpm we need to have backup fbms and the traffic is not sent to the normal next top it is sent to a backup next talk and also this traffic must be tunnelled through the routing underlay to these backup next stops by to bypass the failed component so we have two backup fpm and the better next top and this is a backup entries that require some space somewhere in the bisque so that an extension would be required how are these mega entries computed that depends on the destination that we want to protect if the protected beefer is the primary next stop the backup next stop is again the primary next episode this is not a different node but we need to change the forwarding bitmask this is this is a bit mask with only one bit is set for the primary next hub that has failed why do we want to why do we send traffic to the primary next of that has failed well we do not know whether it\u0027s a node failure or a link failure and for that we need to send the traffic to the next stop - but this next stop should not war what is traffic any further to avoid duplicates how is it with other bit forwarding egress routers that we want to protect well the backup next stop in this case is a next next stop on the way to that specific bit forwarding egress router and the forwarding pig mask contains all bit forwarding egress routers in the subtree that goes through the PLR and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "through the primary next stop and the next next hop so we need to consider the specific part of the multicast subtree next slide please I skipped this this is an example how it works this one again and here\u0027s the summary so we proposed a fast reroute with two different modes a simple mode that protects only link failures and a more sophisticated mode that predict that also protects node failures the link failure mode or the detection mode tons your packets through the routing underlay through the next top and does not require any header modifications so this is really simple and does not require any extensions to the biffed with no protection this is different it protects against scene link and single node failures it tunnels the packets through the routing and underlaid next through the next top or to next next hops and requires head of modifications to avoid duplicates this this mechanism requires an extension to the biffed to store pickup forwarding bit masks and backup make stops we have a we have a working prototype that implements parent real fast reroute based on p4 technology this is a new draft and I think it requires discussion by the working pro group and we certainly also eat some some more input to progress this draft thank you you go back to the problem statement names my name\u0027s Jeffrey Brown jr. affiliation a teacher so at the top you mentioned that air traffic delivery came after FRU bugging under LA after convergence recurred merchants you know up a rocky underlay at barking you also say effective air traffic Gilbert as soon as the Rocky Mountain a works again so what\u0027s the difference in case of a in case of a failure a Lingus town or notice town and then the routing unplayed needs to be repaired if you have a fast reroute mechanism then any traffic is forward forwarded over the faster over the fast reroute while the normal forwarding entries are still old and do not work because you use the fallback solution and after a while the normal forwarding entries are repaired reconvergence has happened and the bit is recomputed well the big in trades "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:34",
    "text": "they can they they can include the backup our entry us as well so basically the the very advantage of ear itself is that you can reuse existing underlay reconvergence mechanisms so that\u0027s all you need we don\u0027t need to do anything special for for beer to take advantage of that you don\u0027t do not need the protocol extensions you do not all you need is your implementation that you when you construct a big table you already include the repair capacity information that you that is already available from the unique has protection mechanisms so I\u0027m not sure why we need this document here and also when you see you need to be extensive do you mean the extension to the protocol or do you mean the additional your internal implementation here includes some additional work to do I mean additional fields in the bit that means someplace to accommodate the backup entries okay as I said in the problem statement we have to consider link failures of node failures link failures are easy because we can trust use alternative paths or whatever but this is different with node failures because the repeated knowledge about replication has gone if if the node has failed and that needs to be repaired by some mechanism but there\u0027s a lot of details maybe we can talk offline but my understanding is that the unique has note protection mechanism can be reused here again so nothing special needed here that\u0027s my eyes by Cisco so after a failure right I think it only works with beer te no picture because with normal beer your bits are your inputs and if you\u0027re gonna say my packet hands to go via dis note and that note you need beer te for tea I don\u0027t see any other way how to do that the trick is that you reuse the routing under day after it works again and for for instance you can use the fast reroute mechanism in the routing underway or Clery conversions and then the the traffic bypassed did note before bits are updated but it but if to be underlay if only got changed and your vegetations are reachable through another power that\u0027s no more convergence and then you pitmasters need to change the bit mask needs to change because you forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "traffic to several next next hops that\u0027s beer te that\u0027s beer te specifically this is Greg Jeff are from Cisco but Isis pointing out is the intermediate beer routers don\u0027t have bf IDs in beer so there\u0027s no way to enumerate a mass to send you\u0027re going to that next hot the only in beer only the endpoints have a bit position so if you\u0027re trying to use a bit rewrite to get to a given node on the way to a path that\u0027s beer te that\u0027s not just beer okay I see the you need yeah maybe there is a point that we need to solve that okay yeah because that was mildly excited to see something to make this beer but I think by joining to get to eat which limits the scope yeah yeah understood who made me call me Nokia yeah I think I kind of wanted to echo what the ice was saying and on the way up from recovery from failure recovery you know I can see fast reroute but on the way back usually in facts where are you do like an eight before break okay again please usually in fast reroute you can do a make before break but here you are using for the for the going back from fast reroute to the original path you\u0027re using the underlay I GP for modem understand right but so again I guess the part I\u0027m kind of trying to get my head around is that if on the way back you\u0027re using I GP why not for going for the protection use I GP - I think I GP just gonna the underlay a chip you can take care of everything yeah well in fact we use the IGP for protection but we use it before the diff entries have have been updated so imagine a note that the next stop fails so all the information about packet replication has gone and this need to be protected so we use a reviews so we basically redistributed traffic to all the next next tops or the relevant next next tops so that as soon as the I am wearing a GPU the traffic can be forwarded without it need for the recovery of the redistribution knowledge of the next top because it\u0027s contained in the PLR maybe I can put in a simpler way so to detect the failure it\u0027s two-way DFT taken this isn\u0027t working I mean yeah to detect the failure is to way there is BFD right or you detect the port the fibre goes down right so if your BFD or your fiber the interface is connected to the IGP that IGP detection gonna really kick into the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:35",
    "text": "beer and it\u0027s going to give you the brand-new BF a VFR ID that you need to go to so it is really relying on the IGP failure i I just cannot see like how the fast reroute here gonna make it happen any faster I don\u0027t know maybe I\u0027m missing something but you need to propagate the information first of all you needed to propagate the information to the digital in the drug India routing tables and second you need to reorganize the distribution trees and this will certainly take some time if I interject again that specifically is beer te so it sounds like the draft needs to be rewritten the way that that separates the concepts entirely and understands it or we can\u0027t specify a next hop with a beer bit in beer yep that\u0027s beer - yeah I was having answer to this question we need we need to do not need to have to reroute traffic to a bit forwarding egress router it is sufficient to address that the next Hollywood rushing router how do you address it IP address because you you leverage the routing under day anyway and isn\u0027t that the IGP doing that for you I mean that that\u0027s what part of this word actually does it for us and we use that but when the ITP is able to do it the next next top or that that the knowledge about the drink about the packet replication is in the next hop and and this information needs to be reorganized that\u0027s what the IGP is doing no the IG does not mess with the fbms and it\u0027s important to the IG PhD is using topology information the topology changes it gets updated in the beer clip is built on that those updates so the layers stay consistent there\u0027s there\u0027s no missing information that time so so maybe one that one confusion here is that like when you talk about protocols like rsvp-te or even LDP that\u0027s signaling so the signaling needs to set up a fast reroute path if there\u0027s a failure it takes for the signaling some time to reconverge with beer since it\u0027s just following IGP and all information is coming from IGP really deep detection is IGP so with the same token so so that\u0027s one point and the other point is that I think as a working group we really need to understand whatever we need to make some kind of improvement here with regard to beer failure detection time as of now like from our implementation point of view we don\u0027t see when I GP fells we just you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:37",
    "text": "pretty fast we detect that and we converge but as a working group we need to understand whatever we need such mechanism and if so what is that mechanism whatever it is right yep so let\u0027s take the comments first it certainly depends on our timing if v is updated really really quick after the ITP has been has converged if it\u0027s only 5 milliseconds or so then there is certainly not a need for fast reroute solution however in IP networks we have to fast reroute to speed up the to be faster than the I GP reconvergence and therefore I expect that also such mechanism makes sense on the ear layer Raji Raji Vasari Cisco so the typical challenge with any tunneling based FRR solution is that it usually increases the amount of traffic flowing on a given link that is used to send that so-called backup traffic if there\u0027s already the same amount of traffic going to another set of recipients that would be completely oblivious right so this is a very common problem and that had existed with the rsvp-te and you know since this inception so depending on how you define those tunnels you may have to be careful about this disadvantage that the if it\u0027s for example if you\u0027re using unicast to hop over the traffic doors and in half you\u0027re simply duplicating a triplicate of quadrupling the amount of traffic going on that backup link at that point of time until the situation until the network converges so something to note and the second then we already have BRT EFR are prompt so what\u0027s what\u0027s a different in here okay what\u0027s the difference for the year te r FR r we use the leverage here te for tunneling the packets to the next student to the backup next stops here we use the IGP you that the routing under de for tunneling that\u0027s a major difference and with ute fast reroute we can explicitly indicate the backup path that\u0027s not possible in a linear your environment and that\u0027s why we need to leverage the IGP when it works again okay um thank you Shepard on juniper again does this require any protocol "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:39",
    "text": "extension I\u0027m not sure of course you can you can trust with implementation because it\u0027s a local mechanism and therefore it and it does not require signalling okay right so yeah that that\u0027s what I thought so basically with existing ear architecture and all the idea underlay innocence my belief is that a popular implementation is already able to do gear fast reroutes it\u0027s this is really implementation detail and does not require standardization but maybe some some some operators or make some vendors with it maybe prefer this is the implementation detail I mean so that\u0027s a big has some comparative advantages what what I can imagine is that when when you do the tunneling stuff then you increase the payload and we can run into MTU issues and possibly that needs to be yeah possibly the needs to be a solution let me otherwise if you reroute the traffic you have larger packets then all the credit packets will be dropped so then first we are to work either so we need to think about that so that this mechanism can work just interrupts our few comments so I think we all agree it\u0027s beauty you do need additional piece of information number two when we talk about IP faster out we mean it doesn\u0027t rely on a GP convergence it means that you could recompute backups a priori and usually recent instantiate them in hard work so you rely on either lots of seasonal interface down like to fish traffic within milliseconds you don\u0027t wait for a GP to convert right and since it doesn\u0027t require any extensions and you want to talk about I\u0027d know architecture for a 71st year out you might consider out in working group to talk about architecture routing working group this is very usually faster artwork happening I\u0027m the chair of protein who how half a visual statement okay stick with us you know just what you comment on the MTU part so so that\u0027s one of the issues I see with the path MTU discovery is that if you suddenly reroute through some tunnel grant you will go down and it will take some time if you do probing until you realize that the MTU has to come down so we might get packet drops and I think that\u0027s one of the use cases one of the reasons that I I\u0027ve been you know presenting or talking about this other MTU solution the they should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:39",
    "text": "always always use the lower end okay so thank thanks for all these questions and the input and I\u0027m happy to take questions afterwards okay it\u0027s a quick summary from my side so I completely agree with eyes human Jeffrey who else Jeff I was thinking about the control based solution right when the controller is programming all the beer stuff and I also don\u0027t see the neat because if you program it you\u0027re still basically program unicast next up protection silicon kick saying on the BFT right with FRR and if you have LSA you don\u0027t need talents the moment you go are LFA tlf AI mean I GB solves all the problems that kicks in so it may be educational just you know a couple of naps napkins in the bar and walk through the stuff with author when you may want to fix the node failure then what has come down that replicates traffic then you\u0027ll be to be organized more LFA does it for you it tunnels over it already and you have it already on the fast path that he kicks over magic works okay and transparent the beer okay one of these downloaded instead of having family here today I will introduce tp-link States extensions for Pierre next yeah so the introduction and the model model out of it with his this document specifies act is sent to the BGP link state address family in order to at the world health other what has in Pierre specific for PPTP our citizens for Pierre there are truth this is the first aids activate a new prefix attribute T away for distributing your information the second is its fear and price encapsulation stopped your way is defined for a dual Tizen imply specific information used to appear Oh next is the update in this worsen way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:39",
    "text": "updates the beauty away at PA are and IPA fields for peer objects encapsulation sub T always will change the label rinse sites to mix as I next yes next step comments where chrome and seeking for walking group after all who\u0027s read the draft who thinks it\u0027s ready for a last call okay Lisa would start some conversation that\u0027s great so let the notes respond that the vote was for last call will take it to the list to confirm that was easy nor the comments yeah yeah yeah yeah this is the draft about 4pc existence copier yes this document to specify its position stood up she say let allow a PCE to compute and initiate the past photo beauty yes there there are mainly for instance in out dropped at the first aid rehabilitate the world hizmet they find a new path setup type for beer and second would defend the beer GPC comparatives up to your way to extent fear capability just sir the second is awakened up she and I stopped the object and the defend a new path a path setting set up type both perche disturb is the unwanted object there are two opposite options one is videos is the p20 endpoints object body for ipv6 and or at Aleppo which is defined in up ab c 8 3 0 6 and the other option is we define a new year and point object to created tfiid informations the last is yellow object with the fans a beer Yahoo sub object to carry artists assist with strength psi sub domain and I slide next place yes this is the details accessories first appear capability of the world has meant yes this is we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:43",
    "text": "defined new PST type it means parcels that have children appear she yes satellites away defined a new fear GE PCE capability stop T away this is a format yes this is the up he is actually object with the fan PST and UPSC type that the witness passion set up you know urine perché yes this is the endpoint object for space specifying the peer information of pass for which has come computations is required request and point subject is required yes there there are two options we use the champion point object our body for ipv4 and ipv6 missile defense the up ch2 3:06 of research which defined a new endpoint object for PF iit the comet is and followed as follows its contents with type shows tfiid and one or more destination dfid yes this is a yellow object for Korean via peer he passed a new the fear Yahoo sub object is required the incontinence and memory contents yes they are subcommittee si Oh autistic with stress some the max value of psi is limited to the restaurant 24 piece increase the birria or sub object into la because the yellow object which will depend in obviously 308 is 3:06 the last days is 8 bits so we limited yes I to the wise Collins 20 kopecks yes say questions just answer so it\u0027s not a question why are you presenting it here definitely belongs NPC and I\u0027m not going to provide deselect comments now but it just doesn\u0027t belong here it\u0027s so deep into piece of semantics I don\u0027t think the previous draft it should be subject to idea roles to implementations but not so again I don\u0027t think it should be just Gregor\u0027s chair I think it\u0027s fine two percent here different questions your donation is correct it shouldn\u0027t go through is it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:43",
    "text": "also being present in PC it is alright okay very good Tony peeling so great necessary I think it\u0027s missing a significant component we have to yank models and we were discussing whether the beard and the beefed mask should be programmable right sandy the remember discussion right and I think that is also eaten into PC right because when you have a controller model with the PCE you want to program the bits and the beards right not only the TE and this this work needs to be synchronized with the young models very closely so I\u0027m not convinced that actually that should be exclusive in the PCE working group you know where they may just run off the rails into something else that we doing with the yang model here well sorry it is important that this works they synchronize I mean which framework I don\u0027t care about the both yang drafts and this has to basically present the same model right now each actual model of beer near the comments all right so I trust you\u0027re working closely with Sandy on the yang overlap will be present in PCE as well which is great is your intent to adopt there and just informational here just for feedback okay excellent yeah you\u0027re not the PC chair your piece okay we have a PC chair excellent all right go eat snake after all right thanks yep yes next that was comments where come yeah oh I Cisco so so maybe I\u0027m going back to Michael\u0027s a little bit here as well so I think this is good that\u0027s a phobia teehee it\u0027s a great way you know to exercise those prepositions to those tables in place but I think the key point is beta is that there is no underlay there\u0027s no IGP we don\u0027t need it right and this is sort of replacement because there by the controller so if you want to do first year out then you don\u0027t have done delay then Michael stuff night well the PC allows you for a low touch in a high touch right you can just touch the edges and rely on the right on the edge of things kicking right you see also for normal right but I think this was targeted for beauty that was precisely my comment right that the generic beer would benefit from precisely the same things as well we have to synchronize all the stuff at the end "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:50",
    "text": "yeah yeah the Yantic model copier yes what about the latest version at the is net @i q a6 encapsulation type tend to ITP type 2 underlay protocol type to allow a PDP ID ID IPA and the PA are in the sub domain and the changed up here I\u0027m here at level insights to max I sign yes this is the data compact tree structure we augment our cheating with sphere containers it\u0027ll include it includes a capsulation type PSL tfiid we have a prefix and and some parameters with the sub domain yes next please control a yes let\u0027s now with its support is this and also SPF as controller yeah next fully yeah our original state its include encapsulation type yes l efi ID VAR prefix are some of the of parameters with sub domain the also contains the beer in text resulting tables yes next notification it contains PF ID collision efi 0 and a subcommittee collision yes next step comments where come and seeking for plastic off okay so i\u0027m paying attention here because that\u0027s important sandy great you you here I think we need a profound discussion on the working group list I don\u0027t know barb off something whether the beards so first the Biff didn\u0027t get added do they belonged in the yang model I do think so and then the discussion is necessary you remember sandy whether the beards and the bits are writable or it only because that has profound implication how you can deploy beard beer using you know any kind of a controller or no I GP architecture and that will be a very significant you know fork in the road will be taking right so I don\u0027t think this is ready for Lance Cole at all this is this work is necessary must be concluded but we need to take this fork and then along this path fill in the voids ok I think you mentioned that you\u0027ve added ipv6 in cap right that\u0027s you just to understand are you talking about it you be a v6 in cap or are you talking about using MPLS then cap using it in the ipv6 underlay I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:53",
    "text": "think a few mistakes and the Lampe I sauce Suneetha um did he just want to answer yes we also include the many encapsulation type seeing this model so I\u0027m curious an announcement also including the Buddha so right but the question specifically was about which b6 and cap type is referenced in the yang model because we have beer in six we have other stuff being proposed right there\u0027s a couple of flying things but I could not see the you know the other configuration parameter is being added for Ethernet or ipv6 I could only see the you know MPLS label stuffs and that\u0027s reason why you can see that under the others family so be aft IDs for each other and I think this means that the question is why we only define and PRS labor base in this part so anything delivered native today has to be verified X you know expand the acronyms that will help [Music] ok please to the mic guys wink we need minutes we need to stop on the mic yes just interrupts trousseau come on UFC expanding on new architecture for data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:53",
    "text": "stores and the guideline is that any young model defined today has to be compliant to this protection that\u0027s all so you don\u0027t have to twist one for state or discuss well if some leaf can can be read or write or read only right so but this model is I think we can discuss if some leaf will be read only in short 20 20 question answers yes any piece of derived data should be in here we don\u0027t use young to only configure things well say you see on the monitor think of the telemetry today\u0027s model the event so yes it sounds like there\u0027s some more work within the list turn it up and then obviously asking for last call causes this conversation but I think we need the conversation is triggered before then so get put in the notes that further work green group interactive input is required Thanks [Music] [Music] thank you good morning I\u0027m Sam is on from the te this presentation is for purity young this young model is designed according to draft ITF purity architecture and in the model we defined the PRT configuration and operation let\u0027s see it\u0027s the key features of the RTE from it we know that beauty is based by controller and so the PRT for disabled is readable and writeable it\u0027s not same with other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:54",
    "text": "protocol and the 14 havel is based on agency let\u0027s see the overview of this young model in this young model we include the agency PP configurations and forwarding items and the optional TFR for the items is our view of this model as we pass the edge and this is the detail of agency PP from that we know PRT controller can checks the bf at apology and assigns bit operation to 18 agencies so and the key agency type describes the character of the link this is a big time wait and it\u0027s the detail of this model because bit duration is the motive semantically different sub domain and asset has been affirmed so we implement the PRTG forwarding is your according to the combination office some demand it\u0027s stimulants and a second and her and the SMP and fr can also be used in ERG Verde that\u0027s the care of the forwarding table we are from it we know that we still define chief yeah I did in this boarding table because of it electro located for the items quickly and this is forwarding detail of the table and we also defined the DNR flag in this model and this is the out interface information about hit the included the outer PFD ID and other information out in faith and also we can use the SMP functioning this table so we defined the SMP outer in her face list and according we have GID voyage and it\u0027s the fab table this PAPR TFR is from the PRT dropped er sucker so we because we we find that we can use some general pass for Phe pass protection so we remove that part from the specifically items outside so we can use some general passport here TV protection so it\u0027s it helps table its notification and Upstate phone are we defined the notification for the invalid of year of the inquest m20 situation and in future we may add some other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:56",
    "text": "notification or the potential of sea voyage the PRT llamado has been used the young open daylight project so this young model has been implemented and this project has been released in nitrogen inversion and you can find the more information about it it\u0027s through this link so this model has been verified and it\u0027s a federal and the practicable it\u0027s the second time for this young modal presentation um 85 we think I think in that meeting so after the implementation we think that this model has being ready for working group for our option so any comments mccollins so this is Chiapas chair I would say I believe when that draft was first submitted te wasn\u0027t even accepted as a here to e so now that it is a word groove item this probably makes more sense who has read the draft its current form all right who thinks it\u0027s ready for adoption all right excellent let the vote show the room supports and we\u0027ll take it to the list Thank You sandy okay everyone I\u0027m trying from ZTE my presentation today is the pfft the draft has been presented and discussed in the mailing list for several times we have updated to the third version an update from master version general aren\u0027t made in two points update the first one we carried the PFD this for me later - are we in fear om tre to bootstrap derpy PFD in dead play under in control play we extended to a GP protocol to bootstrap the beauty and they say is the comment from the last meeting solace masters tonight sona\u0027s a builder PR PFD first of a world the beer PFD is based on the multi-point PFD trapped we used the demand mode dividing obviously five eight eight zero and the pure PFD encapsulation is the bearer om p m-- format we defined a leo message tacked to set to the pier PFD and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:58",
    "text": "the beer PFD control packet defined in RFC five eight eight zero immediately follows the beer OEM header and then their beer or a PFD assertion establish it we provide two optional solutions to to do the bootstrapping the first one is their beer OMP bootstrapping in their date playing and the second is the ITP protocol bootstrapping we use the ITP advertisement and then finally the PF ers used the source address and mighty stimulator to the multiplex the PFD sessions including the pif i PF ir ID and the BMPs label for NPS network and their BF ir ID and VI ft ID for long MPs network so last night so the detailed bootstrapping we provide several options as mentioned the last night the first one is romantic hope bootstrapping we use fear om ping echo request message and then we follows that we carry the PFD destroy me later er we which contains the local district metal generated by we have I are for this session then we enter a Lu section to do the ITP protocol bootstrapping we use the ISS and OSPF capital capability advertisement we exchange their beer PFDs sub t OE this is a loot here a sub Joey which can change the local district you later generated by the earth iron for this session and there the relate to the PF ours information then base under comments in the main in list provided by proposed by sending we will provide the fear of late bootstrap in solution and it is to be added so last night we sampler we summarize the PFD session establishing its establishment the first step the session after PF ir is administratively created for a market poit paths and then the rupee f ir will assign a lil alacrity screw me later and the session tab is set to multi-point head there it ate the PF r will set you active role demand mode and the state is up then therapy f ir should put strap the beer PFD to the PF years and made let third p.m. years to discover either peer PFD accumulator "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:59",
    "text": "there bootstrapping solutions as mentioned masters night general to optional solutions provided their beer team order IDP advertisement then jeribai a fire will send a beer Camille PRT control packet tutor settle for B F ers under the behaviors we are created automatically enter a dummy the colleague created the session in the RPF yars the session tab is multi-point tail and it is will be static - passive role a sims crustless mode then this this is will finish their whole BL PFD session establishment so we surprised the extension from their peer specific networks we define the PFD the tremulous or T are we under the beer we have the sub t are we Esther we go shop so let\u0027s night so about a PR PFD we will do the further work the first one as I mentioned we were at the beer of lay extensions or Pio PFD bootstrapping and maybe we will adjust the version or based on the update of the p2m PPAP so that\u0027s what comments and the discussion is welcome Thank You Nakia I just have a general question I mean maybe I miss that with the point-to-multipoint PFD for beer again I do apologize maybe it\u0027s a dumb question what are we trying to solve here P 2 and P P P and is not adapted to a storm there Peru PFD and the beer PFD will made some extensions to be P 2 MP PFD like the bootstrapping under their control package encapsulation so we defined some extensions based on the P 2 and P reactive yes again I\u0027m trying to get my head around I\u0027d like for MPLS I can I can see the point of it because there is a root and certain leaves and those leaves are not predetermined so like when when you try to do a point-to-multipoint VFD for MPLS we just got to a certain leaves not all the leaves that are all the peas that are in the network with witbier there isn\u0027t necessarily not tunnel right when the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "packet comes in new based on the the interest that outgoing routers you put the bets on top of the beer there and issue the truth so if there is no deterministic route and leave I don\u0027t know maybe I\u0027m missing something but I\u0027m not seeing what this is specific legal will sorrow solving the beer my place my place I think like IGP is taking care of all this itself Studies on from Lydia I\u0027d like to answer her home and her stream oh sorry my clothes because we\u0027d like to provide some attention for here URIs or ingress router monitoring so it can be used for multiple multicast sauce protection or another function so we want the PPF cheaper adapter is to provide as a function of the egress or edge routers monitoring so we think can be used the you hear there are elements like a vision and fell over the Jeffrey Brown from juniper I also had a same question in fact I know that the wines of the stateliest case is for the live live protection so that the the egress peace can switch to a different source but I also had comments there different drafts with beer you don\u0027t really need that but our paper there for now my real comment here here is about when you use ICP to bootstrap you mentioned that you would go back to the previous slide and next slide next previous yeah you the IDB post rapping I think you mentioned that the use the capability advertisement why don\u0027t you just use the fear information sub T of itself at the ad that news sub clearly in that period for mation sub geography we need to used to carry the bitstream information in their ITP extension what in beer in the dating stage playing with your user beer om under that it has carried a beer Heather so we don\u0027t need to use the to carry the bitstream information but in ITP we will need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:01",
    "text": "carry the bitstream information in Joey okay I guess I missed the point of using the carrying the bitstream there but let me uh let me add more waiting I think thank you Jefferies because we can use you you are all going pretty fast the minutes have to keep up so please name affiliation structure the stuff and no open discussion outside of the mic please answer the question from Jeffrey and it\u0027s good point because we can really we can define a new sub to being the existed the beer extension in IDP for use for define that yet so I think that it\u0027s cool that we can modify it later who member cobi Nokia again search just ensure that I didn\u0027t miss anything this is OAM over beer it\u0027s not om over MPLS upstream assign MPLS and then be right it\u0027s the second it\u0027s the second as in the normal bf key over MPLS or whatever is multi hope if T all right so let me maybe chime in so I mean I\u0027m sympathetic to the use case I think there is the case of multi ho PFD I\u0027d rather have it done in the bureau a.m. for which we have framework natively but I understand DFT is around and you know popular and so on when I looked at the draft it is kind of a so Greg wisely he\u0027s not here but I\u0027ll corner him it looks like a mixture between the multiple DFT which is not an adopted draft okay it\u0027s still under discussion and seamless BFT are you well I mean Greg must be aware of SPF D the whole work has been done so this discriminator is not well described if this is a global discriminator we have discriminator this is literally SPF d4 which OSPF or sentience signaling and the one already exists if it\u0027s not I simply don\u0027t understand how it works so I will corner Greg but it looks to me like this is SB FD you know Malta hope and know the multiplying thing is on until the draft gives adopting the BFD working group it\u0027s not even viable to adopt it here I know was a little bit to know a lot but their corner Graig IR heat actually I don\u0027t understand what this is either Homans oh I mean I fully commiserate with you already it\u0027s from three different parts I was asking what story texture here I couldn\u0027t figure it out right so if T the full signaling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:06",
    "text": "everything assists already right but then we need to profound discussion whether this is the direction we want to go because it\u0027s preconditions a global discriminator on the whole network yes right which is its own operational model okay more comments all right good discussion let\u0027s keep it up on the list so all right so housekeeping really fast we have two sessions here back-to-back split by a break we got 20 minutes before the next one there\u0027s basically two pieces of content left problem statement and cap solutions with the v6 request then we\u0027ve got tour lists with te later do we break up that conversation at two pieces around the break do we run right through the break did we jump at a te now and leave the v6 discussion for after who wants to go straight through the break they go straight through break who does not want to go straight through the break and need something here yeah the old guys so um can we do the te then first so we don\u0027t break the v6 discussion up or do you guys don\u0027t mind we can do all yourself now when we come back for te well that\u0027s what I thought we put in after the session and we got time to go on we\u0027re not trying to cut you off for toilets who promises to come back I will be here I promise you that okay so let\u0027s go to tortoises te disgust and we could even we have time before the break we can get into six men all right this toilets still here D run away oh he is still here I tried to scare him off it didn\u0027t work hey tour list your t-shirt is old [Music] it\u0027s a long discussion it\u0027s my lack of shoes that brought me shoes and that honestly it\u0027s weird but trust me ten years of barefoot okay let\u0027s see how close do I have to hold the microphone so that Alvaro can hear me Alvaro this is the last roll check yes okay all right yeah so not much update next slide please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:06",
    "text": "this is the one and only slide so there was a big update later to close up on all the open action item that we knew for idea 103 that was version or one and it basically brought a few he thinks the explanation and then also the section on the requirements against the forwarding plane so must for the important forwarding options should and may for the more complex one that are more exploratory defines how RFC eighty-nine 26 the encapsulation can be used unchanged for PRT and then rework the details of the comparison with beer offering you know to comparison options so that people can easier understand how they can for example use the existing forwarding plane maybe in hardware so that they have and just add V you know at this point in time CLI and then hopefully soon the the yang control plane and so yeah we think the document is stable just wanted to stand up here and say that it\u0027s the office would like to ask for working for glass called after ITF the target is experimental primarily because we just didn\u0027t at this point in time just have CLI and then the yang model so the whole integrated thing that ear has with the IGP and it\u0027s ready to go that is not there and we just don\u0027t have that much deployment experience as well yeah and that\u0027s pretty much it I still have the old slides if anybody wants details questions Shep as chair asking Alvaro so I know we\u0027ve moved everything to standards as a group I know we can do Doc\u0027s separately as experimental the question is would this be something at if we get deploy Ana moves on and it got published could this go back to standards track I would prefer that if you think this is going to go to standards track soon a year two years you know soon then that we do stay on this track from the start now the last experience we had was I think sort of exception because we were ya the charterer you\u0027re really close and and we knew that everyone in the a is you and everyone else knew that the quality of the document was standard track document even though it was smart this eternity and then we just the one thing and then moved within a few months right so if we already think this is gonna go the same way I would rather you know do the work up front and not just trying to address so canasta I would rather write I I got it again reg as chair asking Taurus is your your intent with experimental just to lower the bar move this thing through so that we can get it published so primarily because you know I haven\u0027t been involved in any deployment experiences right so that\u0027s basically what I\u0027m missing I think the text itself "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:07",
    "text": "the due diligence that we did I mean we adopted a fairly late because of the recharging stuff and the be working group so there were a lot of versions already with a good review from the working group before it got adopted so I think the document could be could be going for standard straight give or take whatever deployment experience range missing yeah I don\u0027t remember another you mention the Charter I remember if the Charter but anything about the status of this no I think included his work not as status so but the the bar we set for standards track from the original Charter was fairly high in terms of deployment opportunity for experience right but that what we move forward is that we had vendors moving forward with this stuff you know whispers yeah that I see here is you know there\u0027s a young model there\u0027s a whole other people talking about your te so slowly there\u0027s interest and there\u0027s maybe people doing something just you know wave my hands you know in the end I guess what setting expectations unless assuming that absolutely unless this goes to standards track relatively soon I would probably like it to be you go through the working over again okay if it takes a while before my closest track so just give you my my input against the room to decide if we saw the same sort of kind of whisper vendor support things move on an operator support like we hid for it makes sense yeah we\u0027re gonna go standard strike let\u0027s go that way so I\u0027m totally sympathetic to your I\u0027m just coming at what I know basically when we go for a last call we can obviously ask you know what what shirt would think about if somebody thinks that standard is appropriate then I would love to see some kind of you know feedback on whatever you know implementation experience people have done good all right explosion continuing with the same experimental do the architecture is experimental the yang model the PC work they are all aiming for standard strap so that\u0027s also something that we need to sort of resolve oh is it experimental then all the documents needs to be no I don\u0027t think that\u0027s true right I mean alvaro can you come back to the microphone because I had this discussion over and over and seemingly we have a lot of yang models that our standards for stuff which by itself may even be informational so I don\u0027t think there is a clear so we\u0027ve actually done everything about India good so we\u0027ve actually done some yang models that have been published as standard for protocols that were experimental I remember who was actually well within but yes we have published standard yang ma modules for experimental protocols now this most sort of goes back to correct question before we try to sort of run around the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:07",
    "text": "process at malicious experimental and then everything else is standard and then the question is why wasn\u0027t this senator from the start well you tell us what what really the required implementation deployment experience is for standards I mean thank you so much so if you go read some RFC 2026 maybe or something it says that there\u0027s no requirements for publishing a proposed in the requirements for publishing standards but we\u0027re very fun I had as the chairs all the rocketeers know that\u0027s happened here to talk to the working group about what the working group each working group months to set as an implementation policy for the working so it is run it was brought up at the ATF every two or three 80s ago by someone who said that maybe everyone in the ATF should have implementations before we publishing because of course we believe we\u0027re going to code right now we in the AG believe then we can\u0027t set a blanket statement for everyone in the IT and in fact I think that we can\u0027t even do it for area in routing we have like your for example that has to employ tation required but most of the other working groups don\u0027t and in many working groups all we see the chairs do is ask is there implementation and whatever the answer is we still publish and that\u0027s not as really a bad thing but what we ask the chairs to do was to have the the discussion in the working group see what they\u0027re working with us to and and sort of document that and justified so if this working unit wants to do to interoperable implementations the working one wants to do one implementation that\u0027s fine if I know there are some working person routing for example many many works mostly with government type customers so they don\u0027t actually implement anything in collision RC so we can\u0027t require two incisions here right so their policy is probably going to be well we don\u0027t require presentations that\u0027s fine so we don\u0027t we don\u0027t want to mandate that we need an implementation or two or five or nothing but we want the worker to discuss that and then if the work group says we at least need one one and then it\u0027s it\u0027s not my requirement or the asu\u0027s require many more farmers working to need one for it to be snow shrine or whatever it is and that\u0027s something that that you should have right so historically when we were on the experimental the agreement with Dahlia was that we need to ongoing implementation and the interoperable wasn\u0027t put in and then we have been charter to the standards and then the discussion didn\u0027t happen any farther right what is the standard now in terms "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:07",
    "text": "of implementation I think you answer your question from what Alvaro said it\u0027s up to us this is our work it\u0027s our decision I think if we go just based on semantics we\u0027re not saying this an Internet standard it\u0027s a proposed standard and it\u0027s where we want it to go anyway so that would make sense as proposed standard and then at some point and it kind of fits the line of what we\u0027ve got going on right now but let\u0027s hear from other so just to make sure what you\u0027re saying is you\u0027re saying that you think this work does not need answers no I\u0027m saying we need to have this discussion currently within the group exactly I\u0027m just getting the example we had before fits that line I Cisco so there\u0027s also Calypso Brook along with death net like providing because dependency on this architecture so also maybe what are they doing right is that experiment or dentistry are you we\u0027re Taurus what\u0027s happening debt net I mean Oh definite you know I mean yeah the debt net stuff it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not clear to me yet so I think the the role stuff I think is is maybe happening easier but I think there\u0027s no dependency right there doing the arrived work and I think that\u0027s that may be how I would see it as well so I don\u0027t I wouldn\u0027t worry about the status here they\u0027re using this architecture very much they may they may but yeah I don\u0027t think it\u0027s committed last time I talked to Lou and they do like to have ready-made RFC\u0027s so that they can then start to use them right so not something I mean just from the whole discussion the one thing that I remember why I did like the standard stuff is that where I think getting a more thorough iesg review right so I mean the being being asked more so I think that that would have me personally like to see standards if we feel that you know the requirements are met to go that checker down from juniper so when beard he first came out I read it almost a mustard it at that time I didn\u0027t think it\u0027s it\u0027ll scale I just want I want to know I haven\u0027t followed it since then so now I just want to know it the Congress in its kind of shape that they scale well I think the the scaling properties haven\u0027t changed right I think there are good explanations I hope for typical assignment strategies of bits so that they used reused even right so that you can do certain type of scales but I think this is basically something that you know we\u0027ll have to gain experience but not everything is going to be big service provider backbone there is mobile backhaul there are basically you know infra datacenter applications IOT right so there are lot of spaces where it can go and I\u0027m not making a particular claim that you know it will scale to the largest service provider course okay the reason I\u0027m asking this is I don\u0027t know if this is a factor to consider when we decide whether it\u0027s experimental extender track "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:08",
    "text": "I don\u0027t know again I\u0027m just reading this question I mean most of QoS and a lot of other cool things we have done let\u0027s say even things like multicast I mean there\u0027s there is no multicast in the open Internet right I mean sure we\u0027ve managed to get multicast with beer and so for large service providers but Universal applicability I think is not a requirement for standard just question I think thanks Jeffrey and thanks to our list well we\u0027ve the commitments daily have you have been looking at the scaling of beer and beer te and the scaling of beauty is by a constant factor of worse and the scaling of beauty is by a constant factor worse than the one of beer so this is not very dramatic alright so yeah let\u0027s what\u0027s your plan here toilets um yeah maybe you know when when were coming back from ITF next week working group last fall or whatever you had proper time frame is and then basically I raised the question for who\u0027s who\u0027s read the draft as it currently sits who thinks this work is ready for working group last call who thinks those who read it who thinks is not ready for last call okay good so it looks like we have support in the room note that in the minutes we\u0027ll take it to the list and the other discussion is in which track alright so we are housekeeping time we are four minutes before the break I suggest we take the break and everyone promised to be back here at 11:20 loaded up on the Rotten Tomatoes and be back please okay nothing man nothing but hogs did the blue sheets circulate "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:08",
    "text": "you "
  }
]