[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "mosca is not in germany okay danielle shall we start yep yep okay let's start so um good morning good afternoon uh good evening everyone so welcome to uh c camp session so you know actually uh this meeting is a kind of face-to-face meeting but you know the chairs and the secretaries cannot make cheap so sorry about that and they also it seems that just no one from sikkim to attend this meeting in person so there's no one to sit in the you know chair up front so yeah let's start next next page nearly yeah okay so let's start from the load where i think this is a reminder about its idea policies which says that by participating in the idf you agree to follow idf process and the policies including patent policies next and then there's a piece of the information about the you know conductor guideline the iesg has asked all the chairs to remind that the working group the need for appropriate behavior uh which means that you know uh at any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "at any time in any cases we all you know i should respect each other especially extend the respect and the controversy to our colleagues when we are you know are disgusting or you know on you know debate something next so session this time we have only one session with two hours next so this agenda so this time we have you know our seven presentations actually you know most of the you know drafts have been uh presented in the previous meetings so i think actually we should have sufficient time for discussion next yeah there's some tips about this meeting you know actually uh this time it's a face-to-face meeting we so usually there will be some you know in-person participants but for us there's none so actually we can skip this kind of thing uh we all we all are remote so i think you know uh in in in the rest uh recent meetings we all you know are participating in the meeting by the remote you know echo so we know how to you know participate in this kind of you know conference call next so for the mid ankle i i think you know one piece information is very important when you are going to speak or comment please you know raise your hand to end the session queue yeah next and the minute takers so actually we have the online to us to capture the minutes so if anyone could you know take some help us to take the minutes online that will be much appreciated and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "also i ask how many to help us at least and i'm not sure if oscar is here or not actually uh oh us guys online i think oscar can also uh you know help us so for the blue sheets you know it will be automatically created so nothing for us to do yeah next ipr process you know ipr policies is quite very important so uh prior to moving to the next step into one group process uh the chairs will send out ipr polling for example before an individual draft becomes a working group document or a working group documents goes to last call we will send out ipr polling to the list and so it requires other authors and contributors to reply the ibr polling as soon as possible otherwise it will delay your draft to move forward next so uh the last the things about the mailing list you know we always encourage people to use the melodies as much as possible to discuss anything about the you know uh technologies inside the scope of the work see camp working group and you know there's important demand one group consensus is determined on the main list even though we get some consensus you know in the online conference on face-to-face meeting we still need to bring to the list you know on to confirmed consensus next okay it's for you daniele yes thanks for tai so let's go through a little bit and update on the working group status since last meeting we don't have any new rfcs or documents in the editor queue uh actually we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "we have a couple of drafts which are fairly needed advanced stage we have the otna be on the 100 gigabits draft which is waiting for the ship at the right shepherd right up and the oscar is is taking off that because both are involved in the draft and the other one is the transport nbi applicability document these are the documents that we have on agenda today the working group documentary agenda the optical impairment topology young model rfc 1993 bs which is the update of the layer zero types we have the recently adopted otn slicing draft and the flexigrid documents uh no big changes since the last meeting on these ones the as i said the first and the third one are the ones that are uh past working group lost las cola uh and we also have the microwave topology and the w zone tunnel which we could be ready to move forward soon because if i'm not mistaken the t's working group is running right now the last goal of the t model of the tunnel t model a little update on the documents not being discussed today not an agenda uh the client signal young model we have minimal updates let's just keep alive uh there are stats there are still some appendix pending issues uh to work on uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "like uh resiliency port layer etc and then uh i mean that should be in in a fairly good uh stable status as well [Music] then we have the wdm interface lmp uh i think that a little bit of review discussion is needed but also that document is in a pretty stable condition then we have the ethernet client t topology young and the l1 and csm they are both pretty stable documents the layer one csm has been updated and uh to fix the comments i received from the young doctor review i was wondering whether we should ask the ops working group to have a review on this since all the layer 2 and layer 3 services are in the in the operation area what what do you think should we or maybe john if uh if you are if you are with us what do you think should we ask ask them for uh for a review uh i mean i don't know if you already read this document but it's uh it's a sort of uh layer one version of the the service models that the uh the operation area has been working on the layer l2sm and l3sm with the dedicated working groups and l3m and l2 and m in the opsa working group yeah i haven't read them um i i mean what what you describe makes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "sense and early reviews are never a bad idea so okay maybe maybe we can okay maybe we can do that as as a sort of final check before moving it forward layer 1 types this was minimal minimum updates here here as well as well as the otn topology young model these these are the two on next in in the row to be to go through the last call otn tunnel model this is another document with a dependency on the uh related document in teaser so that the the itfte uh so these this is this will be unlocked as uh as well uh we didn't hear from the authors uh regarding the dwdm interface parameters young model that that draft expired so i don't know if any of the authors would like to say something about about the plans for the draft if i'm not mistaken gabrielle and gert all the independent for this document hello community yes so we're still trying to align this document with the uh with the topology both in terms and also with layer zero types so we're kind of waiting a little bit for that to materialize and then update it accordingly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "okay great thanks milestones actually uh it was time to have a a refresh of the milestones this is let me say the plan the plan forward uh you see there is a pretty dense number of uh deadlines uh in in the next month this is due to the fact that we have a number of pretty stable documents pretty mature documents uh most of them have gone through the young daughter review so we expect in the next month to be ready to to to progress many many documents to to the law school some of them were let me say capitaled by other documents that the non-technological technic technological specific ones in teas now that those blocks are removed we we are ready to progress there is quite some work to do on all technologies you see microwave at the end the obvious also we are planning to keep the c camp working group active for uh for for for the next years at least the essence and communication we received the uh a communication from uh from etsy actually uh this was uh uh sent adjusted to the chairs list of these ops and camper i only realized about that in the last days and i forwarded it to the working group mailing list so if you if you search for it in your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "mailbox you will find it coming from me and not from etsy it's classified as communication because actually the itf doesn't have a formal liaison relationship with uh with etsy but i mean this is uh something for uh for information they are telling us uh that the isg nfv uh is uh uh has started a work on the wema the one infrastructure manager and they they are planning to use the net conference of young models and base it on on ctn so that's why these ops working group and ccamp are might be interested in this communication that's it any question before we jump into the first presentation [Music] can you hear me yes please sergeant okay good morning to everybody i'm going to present an update related to the optical impairment aware topology model next okay so from administrative point of view we going on to have the weekly call uh on tuesday about the this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "draft to discuss the different issue and topics related to the update we have uh done update about from text point of view in the drafts and the the young part uh we restructure we change the front page list addressing the usual issue about the five front page autos list and putting a specific appendix the other quarter list and contributors we added a text to overcoming an ambiguity present in the in the text related to uh what is a switching block that many times is called rodam and the full equipped device so we restructure the terminology uh to clarify uh roda meaning put i2t reference for that and introducing uh terminology uh for wdm node in the related to the physical device and the wdmt node uh to distinguish the the the physical device from the uh tnot concept uh as described in uh this tia topology uh we added text in the section 2.3 uh uh also this uh in the optics of uh in the view to align with the uh terminology uh from itu-t"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "um regarding uh the introduction of uh to substitute oms and ots link with oms ots media channel group and the we we we touched the text 2.4 to add the description uh of ram amplification and we added text uh to clarify the usage of the term channel versus a media channel so the media channel is described in the g807 as a boat topology model and related to the uh the resource in the context of our drafts we use the term occasionally we use the term uh channel uh to indicate the resource of uh related to the media channel so fragrance is lotto or effective frequency slot without representing topology from young part we fix four basic issue and introducing the raman amplification feature next please so this this uh picture is just to represent and synthetize the changing regarding the terminology uh we for fast for uh we represent here the case of integrated wdm nodes and we put the wdm node as represented"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "the physical device and the wdmt nodes uh they um in the in the same way as integrated in the the wdmt node related to the concept of rfc8795 here we represented the integrated architecture but the tnode is working in the same way in case of a disaggregated architecture wdm t-node ex hiding what is the interconnection between degree and a drop blocks we change assad the oms and ots link with the oms media channel group and ots media channel group and this is their representation of the changing next one of the issue that we solve is uh the fact that we want to use our model to describe also topology where the rhodams have one or multiple external shells with the optical transponder the links between the the dot uh hosted in the in this external shelf uh can be described uh with with the tealing with optical impairment as we made for the rest the point is that in this case there is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "no uh multiplexing there is not and for this reason even if the optical impairment are the same we introduce text to describe explicitly these these points so that the impairments are related to the link between remote optical transponder located in a different shelf can also be modeled using the same optical impairment as those defined for a link between wdmt nodes so this is an explicit test that is introduced in the in the drafts um and in this case the external shelf can be considered again as a wdmt node with the only difference that only termination capabilities is presented not switching next so uh as said we introduced the ramana um the raman feature uh the the raman amplifier distributed amplifier and we modeled both the the co-propagating raman amplifier in which the optical signal is injecting in the same direction of the amplified signal and the counter propagating which the optical pan pump is injected in the opposite direction of the optical signal [Music] from model perspective the raman amplifier is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "model as a two oms element so the a passive fiber that has to take into account the fiber loss and an amplifier element providing all the properties that we have defined for amplifier the amplifier element is placed where the pump is located and we have geolocation information indicate lay location of the pump and to distinguish the raman amplifier from it for example edfa amplifier we have in the model the type variety attribute and we introduce specific attributes to model that that is the roman direction to distinguish the co-propagating with respect the counter propagating case and the ram and pump with the frequency and the power related next so this is a in in here is the the young model uh modification as we said highlighted in yellow there we have uh under uh the same throttle of the amplifier and in the group of parameters related to the amplifier parameters there are uh the the the definition of the the attributes that i mentioned before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "uh we also added also uh in the context of amplifier uh the total uh output power um this is a and this the total output power that represent the output power measure uh in the related range of frequency that we have as attributes and this is important uh total the total output power to uh um to recompute the consistency between the span fiber loss with respect the loss gain in the elements along the oms link next okay we this is another issue that we solve in this period that we wanted to uh avoid a specific specified behavior in case of a mandatory attribute for example if the survey is not present so to avoid the strange value that can be returned because it's mandatory so something has to be returned but even in for optional case uh we want to distinguish the case in which there is a real problem for example the service is not able from uh what uh is the not applicable case for example the till for amplifier the tilt target attributes is uh is needed and has to be returned in case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "of edfa amplifier but is not a problem in case there is not a return that because does not is not applicable in case of rama so are two different cases and for this point we introduce the type empty uh taking from rse 7951 and we have we have introduced in the module uh the description that uh distinguish the case that if the value of a mandatory attribute is unknown it must be reported using the empty type so [Music] in case we change many of the type of the attributes putting the union between specific type as it is now and the the case of empty in case they um the the the impossibility to return uh the value in case of optional if it is applicable as in case of mandatory it must be reported in case if this is unknown it must be reported in the empty type in case that the optional attribute is not applicable to an entity it must be omitted because it's not present in the data store this is a sentence introducing the module description and and uh uh next step next slide that is uh we have the rob uh in in the queue do you have a question specific to this slide that uh maybe we uh sorry yes i do uh so rob wilson cisco i i think this is possibly over engineering it so i don't quite know the cases where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "you can't return data if this is a plausible case or you're thinking just like i want to cover sort of belt and braces and make sure cover or scenarios i think it would be better if the expectation is you can sometimes not return this value then don't make it mandatory if the expectation is that the server should always return this value if that's sensible and sane then mark is mandatory and if it comes to the case where for some reason a server is unable to return the value it just doesn't give it to you so it just doesn't send anything so i'm i'm not sure that this is a problem you want to solve this way here because because either it's a generic yang issue i'm not a generic solution or um or otherwise you seem to be sort of engineering a very specific way around this i'm not sure that that's a good choice is this something that is already been discussed uh in uh in net mode not not recently that i can think of um it did come up in the discussion to the nmda architecture where the there's text in that that effectively says that the server is allowed to not return data in these sort of scenarios and the one case that is interesting is if you have telemetry and your stream telemetry off the box then if you don't send a value then you have a case where you don't know it's you got no value or just the receivers expected to have the previous value received um so i but i think this would be worth raising as a more general question on the netmod alias to see what the comments are on this idea yeah a good observation the point is that uh okay we we have also uh people that is working with us and we have in parallel already someone that is implementing that and so the fact to have a strange value that is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "coming back uh in case value is not known it was a problem during the implementation so we try to solve in parallel of the description of the drafts also the problem that is coming from that we say the the experimental field and so this was apparently a good solution i mean i bet it is but uh i mean as rob said that this is something that needs to be solved in a more uh general way probably not in c camp maybe net mode yeah what i'm saying is that in the meantime what uh we need to have some solution for that this is the point well if you if you raise it in the net mod alias and discuss it hopefully that'll come to a conclusion fairly quickly as to what it is and if this is the deemed to be the right way of doing this that's great then we we find that we do it consistently but i think you'd find that this like the young doctor have used this document and that this would come up as being an unusual way of modeling this yeah we can raise we can raise the question as a working group if you prefer or i mean since most of you are active participants in that mode if you wanted to do it yourself as you prefer if you believe that raising the question as a working group is uh is better we can do that otherwise uh i mean you can you can uh bring the the the question to the working to the working group to the to network and ask to have it solved in a generic way as you prefer let us know if you want us to address the issue there is italo in in queue yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "please thank you on this point uh i agree though to to to raise this question to net modern to get some advice from them and just to qualify a bit the reason why this was requested uh if you if you don't report an attribute there was an interest for the client to know whether the attribute is missing because it has not to be reported for that specific configuration or it is missing because for some reasons it's not available it's unknown and that's the reason why we had these uh this different not reporting at all it doesn't give this this capability to notify the client but i we can clarify this question to the net mode and get their advice yes well probably it will make it more efficient rather to say this is the problem and we started to solve it in this way and we we believe that this is the way to solve it rather than just saying hey we have a problem and please solve it and just one other thought on that is again i didn't quite pick up the nuance of the different sort of not reporting the values you're saying there but it may be that you would be better off if you need to get that extra distinction in there to have an enumeration as your second union type and then you could have enumerated value that's more clear as to to what it means to return that rather than returning null like returning empty is quite strange thing to return operationally okay next okay here is uh the example how is uh we introduced the uh modification so for example we have uh uh uh created uh uh the the the list of type def in layer zero type extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uh i don't know like for example type def power in db or null and in this case we have uh the junior uh union uh between the power in db and and then the eptic case and in parallel we have changed uh a lot of attributes uh putting the union instead of the single time this is what we have done okay next okay as usual we track tracking open issue in this link and we closed 9 issue since the last itf we have still 11 open issue um well we have 11 but uh there are uh some issue to this for uh in the first ballot that we already know how to solve that and so i will be solved with the next pull request because i already discussed and agreed they the the the issue 88 uh they have been already discussed and we just waiting for tax proposal but also this has been clarified um they issue 79 that is related to the expat in life ref and here we need the clarification from net mode we have a specific um uh presentation today for this point um we need to review terminology and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "and that they are young model development approaches so not let me say directly involve both text and the young part next so we consider that the model is in very good shape we are analyzing possible leading enactment covering a new feature but the the model is already in a very good shape at the we need to address the remaining issue and i think we can be ready for a young doctor review and we plan to have a stable version by the end of the year so from itf 115. that's all for my site any question the way you enjoy your your work it's a very good shape that's just good so you're satisfied with that any question while i pull up the next slides we can move on okay uh good morning again i'm sergio belotti again so this is uh the uh new draft that is uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "the restructure of the layer zero type extension draft uh with the uh the new name of 1993 bs next slide okay so this document is uh obsolating the rfc 1993 uh um encompassing uh the content of rfc 1993 with the content player zero type extension um we we are following for this restructure of the document uh the comment that we received at the itf 412th and and with the the last pull request we restructured the document uh to become the the new one rfc 1993b um for the mod the update uh we added also the layer zero technology specific constraint issue uh related to the issue certified uh so we added the gsnr merging ngsnr estimated that our output of part computation this is coming from the analysis made in the optical path computation drafts next please okay this is the young structure for the new uh grouping um so we we introduce up as i said the gsn are merging as input of the part computation in the part constraint and we added the estimated gsnr as output of the path computation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "next uh we added more line coding identities so there was a comment during uh in the optical impairments that we do not address the gross bit rate so we we what we we've done to uh address this issue 100 in optical impairments is to introduce a new uh leaf that is just for bit rate um that is to to indicate the gross bit rate like 100 200 300 for optical tributary signal but we still exploit uh atlanta bitrate uh leaf uh in case of standard reference when there is not just the bit rate that is uh needed but for example also modulation format because for definition of line coding in itu-t line coding is more than the line bitrate is just representing other attributes next okay here is the modification we have done related to the issue 99 we discussed before in optical impairment for the empty in case we do not get um value in in some cases so we introduce new type def for that and update types in optical impairments and the layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "zero type extension in some grouping with the new type empty uh and with the union between the value the the the former type and the new type empty next so next step for these uh um these drafts uh so we need this we still need the in the structure of the the of the the two documents so the the rfc 1993 and the layer zero type extension we need to reconcile the introduction so the introduction coming from rfc with the new one from the layer zero type extension we need to complete the uh appendix a because we need to report the changing uh from rfc 1993 and we plan to to to to fix the remaining issue this is that's all for my site thank you any questions so actually here uh i mean his is uh uh we thought it was a good idea to have the lease with respect to rfc 1993 um i don't know i've seen other working groups having the same issue issue and solving it in a different way for example recently i've seen a draft i don't remember which one where the authors were requested to just uh write a small draft with an update so uh i don't know so sorry john for bothering you again i know it's pretty early for you but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "can you please confirm that the bc is the right way to go here or do you prefer an update like they are doing in this i i apologize i was distracted to say the question again so this is uh uh we we recently published rfc 1993. this is a an update to that one we are adding some parameters some concepts that we removed in order to have 1993 published uh pretty uh pretty fast uh i've seen two different ways of solving this issue the one is to go for abyss and the other one is to write a small draft with just an update um i've seen in the past that the visa was the most uh widely adopted uh solution here i just wanted to have a confirmation uh from you that this is the right way forward or uh if okay perfect yeah i i get the question now yeah so i mean right you're absolutely right you could do it either way um i personally like the abyss better because then it keeps all the material in one document that's exactly the way we we would the reason why we chose to go for that okay thanks robert uh yes just echo what john's saying i think if you're completely replacing the yang model before then doing abyss and obsoleting the previous one is the best way great thanks bye last two you know i kept meeting there were lots of the discussion on this issue and there was a consensus that the working group preferred to publish you know a kind of sfc yeah so i agree with john"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "good we are ready for the next presentation oh voice check can you hear me yes perfectly okay thank you so today i'm um this is iowa from futurewii and i'm presenting this slides for the framework and data model for otn slicing on behalf of other coasters and contributors next page okay so here's a brief updates of the draft since the last etf um we have this draft it was a working group adopted and we have had inter meeting and discussions on the mailing list about how this uh draft will be moving forward um the github repository was also transferred to c camp uh with all the records and and meeting minutes uh in there um so i would encourage everyone to come to the to the github and check it out we also have a weekly uh call on every thursday um on the um on the mean side and for this revision the main update is on the draft text to address comments and consensus from the um from the discussions we have done a lot of work with alignment with relevant to drafts which includes the t's network slicing framework the network slicing young model and the applicability for ictn on netflix slicing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "as well as um the model um uh the in the interview draft on uh defining the model um network slice structure next the page so here we um like to present some conclusions on the discussions um on um the way we move forward with ltn slicing so first um first of all there was a very good summary from keys on the framework for ietf network slices thanks to adrian in which the two relevant points to the otn slicing is first of all the scope for ietf network slice must include any use of uh must basically is applicable to uh any uh scenarios uh beyond the 5g and second is the interest for ietf network slice is to cover the mapping of ietf network site services to any ietf network which includes not just ip but otn and any technology specific layers which then supports our conclusions below which says the technology specific slicing for otn is in scope and also the use cases for otn justifies the need for slicing in otn networks and we also uh see uh the conclusion that uh this the use of slice and otn slicing um there are proper terms for otn um as long as they are in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "the context of ietf network slicing and uh an otn slice uh in in this case is in indeed an ietf network slice when the ietf network is otn and the otn slice controller in the context of itf network sizing is a is considered as an itf net slice realizer for otn and we um oh i'm sorry i i haven't finished the last one yeah so there are three other bullets just say for example layer one vpn t topology and t tunnels can be considered as a realization of an otn slice and also we briefly touched the discussion on whether otn slice mbi is a top-down is used as a top-down configuration or bottom-up and the conclusion is it is an intent interface which can be used as a top-down configuration to uh to configure an otn slice uh the uh it is also agreed that the otn slice mpi uh it should augment uh the ietf and nsdnbi next page yeah so here are the main text updates uh so we added uh descriptions uh for the three options of configuring nltn slice as i will show on the next page and we also added a text to clarify the relationship between otn slice intent and its realization which is which can be used uh can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "realized by any uh existing means as shown on the previous page we added text to clarify that otn slice control mpi is technology specific and augments the ietf network size mbi there are also some minor changes um on the format of the document and also we address the tom's comments in the mailing list um there are with with other cosmetic updates next page so here's a an updated diagram on the right side and in which we uh clearly marked the three different options as there can be uh uh used to create an otn slice uh with option one being the uh ietf network slice controller directly interface with the pnc um and in this case uh no tns slice controller is used um and in option two an itf network size controller could interface with an otn slice controller and and delegate the the creation of an otn slice to the otn slice controller and then in addition we have a third option for any uh technology specific for any otn aware customer uh as for example an otn oss or dss to interface with an otn slice condola to create a technology-specific slice in the in the otn domain next page there is a very little"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "young model updates in this revision and just to to format uh just on the formatting to conform with the young guidelines and we plan to make uh additional updates uh once we clarify the way moving forward with otn slicing next to page we also did some discussion on harmonizing with the network slides and via yeah as yeah as i think i already uh said we agreed for the otn slice young otn slice control mpi model to augment the network slice mbi model from my from tees we are currently analyzing the model structures um and for the network slice mbi moves just specifically we are checking whether the network slice mpi contains all the required parameters for otn slicing and whether which parameters are technology agnostic which could be technology specific for ip etc and uh whether we whether the base model uh the network size mbi can support uh resource-based slicing um with topologies but if not we will be adding this support in the otn slicing model next page yeah um we are also harmonizing with another draft the tease applicability of actin on slicing um and we have agreed for the author of that draft to give an update on the figure which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "describes the mapping of ietf network slice controller to the sctn mdsc in order to clarify the interfaces used in this in this mapping the the main thoughts towards that change is that we have an mdsc which could consist of a service orchestrator as well as a network orchestrator and in that respect the ietf and sc mbi uh slash otn sl otns mbi uh is uh equivalent to uh an interface between the mdc service orchestrator and network orchestrator and there's there's currently no uh official name for that but i i think we will leave for the author of that drafted to clarify next page so the next steps for this draft is uh to uh we will continue uh to address the comments from the working group and uh we'll start the work to align and augment ietf network slice yang and we will add otn technology specific definitions such as slos and other parameters according to the next discussions yeah i think that's it any questions uh comments more than welcome thank you i have one um oh fertile you go first so uh it seems that the ego is not in the conference call and which makes your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "life easier but anyway i would like to check if all of the you know open issues raised by your ego have been addressed or are there any open issues left i think that the main issue raised by igor on whether it's necessary to have otn slicing i think it has been addressed and have has been concluded as shown in the slides there are there are a few uh other uh questions about uh about uh uh slicing but i think it's it's uh not otn uh specific it's uh it's a slicing uh in general right um that can be uh addressed by teeth um so for that for example one other question is whether like a slice could support just a p2p or uh like uh it could support the p2p p2 p2 mp or mp2mp it has to support all of them in order to consider to be considered as a as a slicing service uh i think those kind of questions are really relevant to network slicing in general and can be done in teas yeah okay thank you yes in fact i mean adrian was presenting the other thing the other day and he was asking if there were questions coming from c camp that the states needed to be addressed but uh i think that with the discussion that we had on that is meeting list we should consider uh all these issues the more or less solved if there is any anything else left to discuss uh let's let's put together a list of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "um issues still still open right good next one is done hi guys morning um danielle you can delegate uh the controls to me i can click a button on your behalf of course so hi good morning uh we wanted to provide a quick update on uh two documents uh the the flexigrid dug document one was the topology the other is the tunnel and also just raise uh some issue that we've actually been having that not only affects these two documents but also affects uh other ccap and also tease documents in the way that we use augmentations and uh when statements so danielle i don't don't have the ability to advance the slides yeah i think it's it's quite technical i think that only works if you're projecting pdf that's been uploaded and this looks like it's coming from uh uncooked powerpoint on daniel's just uh i was doing them for you oh thank you sir great so uh this the this document uh has been uh relatively finished it's stable uh we had various comments that we needed to address after the last call so thank you tom and adrian for that we really kind of just had to resolve the issue with um the augmentations that that that's that that was the main issue with the document and that's really why"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "uh why the document was slightly delayed uh and i will i will cover that uh with some slides uh a little later but for all intents and purposes the topology document flexigrid is is now finished and if the working group is happy with our solution for the augmentations then we will proceed with this document and submit it next slide please so the um the tunnel documents oh there is a slight typo there just to see if anyone's paying attention still we actually changed it from media channel to to tunnel but essentially this is a document which isn't as mature as the flexigrid topology document there's there's still quite a bit of work that needs to be done with the document the code itself is is relatively stable but there has been some uh dependencies with other documents uh there's also uh some specific sort of technical uh discussions required for things like the way the tunnel is used and dependencies or associations with the ots ig specifically the tunnel identifiers and and path set up so there's also some further sort of ancillary work that's happening with the path computation document as well so we we just expect this document to have multiple issues that are going to be discussed uh as you probably remember we have a uh a weekly call for the flexigrid documents the focus is now really on the tunnel document itself but we've we've also uh moved the path computation discussion into our flexiwood calls so when you see the invites uh for the flexigrid discussion i should really sort of add um our sort of um optical path computation um uh topic to that as well and those calls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "have been postponed just prior to and during ietf 113 but those will restart after 113. next slide please in fact danielle could you go on to the next slide now i'll skip this one so what was the issue that affected the topology document and you know i think here we need to kind of highlight um the great work that our our young doctors do when they review the anco there is uh obviously a lot of technology specific content um that they have to kind of pass and for c c-camp and tease we have a tendency to use with our yang models um at numerous augmentations um often numbering sort of tens as many as 50 and one document i looked at over 100 augmentations and i suppose that's just the kind of the nature of the technology that we're dealing with most of these are controlled via when statements and when we when we have the when statement sort of highlighted in blue there i'm moving my mouse but but you can't see that um but essentially on the graphic there uh we also have to um sort of test um for the presence of the container in the network type and there's usually multiple levels as well could be just some four levels could be sort of ten levels um and because the augmentation takes place at different levels um we use the relative form of the xpath statement so it's very important that those dot dot dashes are actually at the right level and you can see i think on the right of that slide all the yellow uh horizontal dots are essentially where we use those when statements and that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "that's just one single document which is our probably our topology document and it's not as numerous that that when function is not as numerous as other t's and c caps documents so that's that's a lot of work that needs to be done not not obviously by just the young doctor but anyone who's actually a human who's sort of reading through or passing this document uh next slide please so there's good news uh actually uh there is a function um it's a x or an axis or a uh and it uses this thing called an ancestor function so instead of having to um sort of use a when statements and specify um the the relative location um um that you're augmenting you can just specify uh the ancestor state statement instead of using that relative path and that makes things a lot easier for humans who are reading or reviewing uh this document and again not just the young doctors but but anyone the vendors or potential users of this technology so this is um this is a cool feature and we started using it extensively um in our documents and uh next slide please we hit an issue when we started uploading uh our our new uh internet drafts through the submissions tool because it turns out it breaks um one of the tests that is performed so the the yangling test is actually something that happens when you when you upload your document or you can use it to sort of test code before you submit and this we thought would be maybe just a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "a minor issue um we kind of flagged it to the experts in netmod and we got a kind of mixed response because uh there were several people in network that thought well um it's a legitimate use of um yang it may be sort of esoteric as in sort of fairly specialized but that shouldn't deter us from using this function there were other people um who thought that actually um we we probably might be um i guess what's the word yeah um suggested that uh we should not use this uh feature because it was not well understood and clearly not all the tools actually support this ancestor function we should revert back to our sort of um uh relative um path uh when using the augmentation uh the when statement for augmentation so we are kind of you know we we we bounced sort of backwards and forwards uh for about a month um just really trying to figure out what to do here um ultimately from an implementation perspective when it's you're read by machine it's it's not a major issue but considering you we we do expect more young models in the future and there are sort of i suppose not just impacts here for c-cam but also teas it it would be worth kind of widening the discussion beyond the flexi grid folks to see what what other people thought of this for the time being we've reverted back to our previous code base as mentioned so we're no longer using the ancestor function which is a shame um but that's where we are now because we just wanted to move ahead with the document and that's that's it so i'd just like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "open up to the chairs and and the rest of the working group robert sorry i didn't realize i put my hand up and then the me taker wasn't quite working uh yes i i actually think here um my personal preferences um if it if the existing one works then that's going to give you the widest sort of um deployability most tools are going to work with that whereas if you try and do the sort of clever thing even though technically it might be allowed i would suggest you you're more likely to hit tooling issues in future i think if we want to um support this i suggest this goes on like the yang next issue tracker and he's more explicitly thought about in the context of an updated version of yang would be my view on this um i think you that keeping it simple even though you've got the longer expressions is probably the best way that's just my my personal opinion i was about to say exactly the opposite so let's let's do what rob suggests i mean my mighty clear is that i mean since if it was a document that we needed to publish tomorrow i would i would suggest to revert absolutely but i mean since there are still many things to be done i think we can wait and see if uh other working groups are embracing uh uh this this functionality and the tools we get uh uh upgraded accordingly john please please yeah i was i actually put myself in line to say almost the same thing um you did which is yeah if we need to ship it right away then do the pragmatic thing but if we you know can afford to to take our time then i mean it sounds from rob's comment and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "rob i'd be interested in your you know read back if i'm understanding you right that um this isn't thought to be like we're using it wrong it's just that we're you know sort of pushing the envelope on the tooling and um so as long as our timeline allows the tooling to catch up that i would think ought to be okay um uh so rob so i think i need to look a bit more closely exactly what's being used here is xpath in its use in its usage of in yang um the sort of some bits of x bar that they want and some bits of x path you just get because it's x-path and in terms of the implementations i suspect a lot of them just do the basic i want a path into the tree type thing and don't do the more complicated um stuff of of actually allowing different sorts of ancestors and searches and things like that because you can write these sort of um more concise x-path expressions but it's just more likely um that tooling that should handle this just won't because they just do the basic things so that's my concern is that um i'm not sure whether they will be running um a generic xpath parser might also be i'll have a look the other thing is to see what um the yang author guideline says because they may well also have some recommendations here i think there's some text about that i can check that but um i don't mind you trying it but i think it's definitely worth having a wide discussion first before we ship something with this because it you may just be you're making your lives harder and and the people who who use this life's hard as well okay i mean that's that's great feedback guys um and we i think we totally agree with you that this isn't sort of a burning um issue for us right now um we can continue um with the document obviously there are other documents that are sort of complementary to this anyway we will highlight this i guess with some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "of the other um document authors uh in in teas and uh follow up again with the guys in that mod and just you know see where we are in another month or so yes thank you um yeah when we do my understanding is from the manual discussion from the rsc8407 is that it is a legitimate use on chestnut the problem is that if the tool does not support it there will be a roadblock to the adoption by the market of our module and that's why my suggestion is to to go with a relative partner and in the future if and become supportive we can always take it use it because it is much better from the right new reading but if the tool is not supporting it then we have a good one more than nobody implements which is not good to me thank you what i wanted to say great sorry to close with you but we needed to rush a little bit optical computation okay can you hear me hello hello okay i'm good okay sorry hi everybody i'm with hello from norway i'm presenting uh an updated version of the optical computation rafter next high please i cannot move okay what is the status okay initial version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "of this rap is representing the last type of meeting and it is a quite a straightforward work at this moment in time because what we are doing here we are basically augmenting the deep compute motion mode which is generic with uh technology specific informations and we are using the common definition from the lfc 1993 beast and from layer one type and and the what we do like the the generic is in alignment with all the work which is ongoing on ut and doubles and reflexively internal models and as mentioned by daniel we are discussing any issues on the draft in the weekly code together with the flexibility topology and tunnel models next slide what we changed from the previous version we added the ayana considerations and we'd added some acknowledgements because an initial version of zone flex will be the computation model has been taken out from the from the from the from their drafts and we put acknowledgement to sal to their authors for the initial work or to the authors of those we didn't join this traffic document we didn't do any change on the otm pack of rotation and the reason for that is is because of the internal model is quite stable and we are already aligned so as a consequence of sodium power computation is quite stable we did a major changes on the double zone and flexibility computation based on the weekly call discussion and in particular uh the changes has been reflected in the llc 1993 bs only a zero part constraint is properties and we are using them to con configure the gsnr margin and report the estimated json r in the computational response next slide okay one open issues since the last meeting is again how many modules there are many documents at this moment we have one document with the three modules and we we see that the otm pack rotation is quite uh are related to the other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "that doesn't complexity computation has a lot of commonalities among themselves especially because all the otsi related the configuration is independent from whether the grid is fixed or flexible while the label specific information which is related to the grid configuration is different between amazon and flexigrid and we are using the types in the c93bs actually 1993 which are common between the computation and doubles and topology models so the the doubts that we have is what do we do here and we had some discussion in the last few days among quotas and our proposal as as quarters is maybe we can have one document we can split into two documents in one document we develop the otm computation which is quite independent from the other one and also has a different maturity level and in the second document we we try to put together into one module as well the w zone and flexibility computation configuration modules into one we need to understand how to reconcile the issue with the label configuration but we can exploit this option and see what are the whether it is technically feasible so this will be the proposal and next next slide so the next steps is to address any comments and feedbacks we receive we can complete the document with the security manageability considerations which are currently empty and we keep alignment with the discussion on going with the relative tunnel models because the path constraints and path properties are the same and we we want to finalize the module doc the modules document as structure and we had the proposal uh discussed before and we think the document is really for the adoption of uh working group and if you split into documents both documents will be ready for adoption thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "oh man please hear me uh i'm trying to ask a question for participation on the modern dependency it looks we mentioned the layer zero and there one types will be uh would be no this work depends on the zero and one type and is there any other models uh this work depends on it depends also on the itf computation and i don't i will double check i don't remember any other dependency okay my personal opinion is the number of documents should be only increased if the dependency is different so so that means maybe we can have one for layer one and the other one for layer zero but in the document actually you can have multiple models as you like i agree i mean uh probably merging uh w7 would be it could be a good idea i mean in this in the end the obvious one can be considered the top case of flexibility keeping layers in layer 1 separator is uh he is a good idea as well because i mean uh we have different uh implementations that uh only care about the optical and only care about the piano so keeping the documents separate there is is a good idea as well but i mean this is just let me say a reflection"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "i i'm open to whatever the working group believes is that is the best idea any other opinion here okay if not we can move to this to the next slot okay hello hello please thank you hello everyone i'm chad from huawei i'm glad to do this presentation on behalf of all the contributors of jobs is room with our hard way in when we manage and provide a young model which can be used in the northbound of the network before okay this next page our job first presented in last item meeting both in ecamp and ups awg and we got some valuables in particular we suggested to target the brothers and find a technology agnostic community so at first we remove the optical constraint and draft name and idle and based on the feedback from ops hwg discussion we have analyzed um to inventory relative job in opsawg and we have found no overlap if we have clarified that this job is for hardware inventory management on narrow scale we also replaced the minority of shelf with chases because chase is is a more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "recognized technology agnostic term another major update is that we have presented a big issue in in the draft that this this issue may lower integration efficiency between systems okay business page in the current model proposal uh most of the object just like chases slot sub slot etc are defined as never elements component and they are distinguished by their class in real network scan scenario if the output system want to do a full synchronization we can now retrieve all the network elements including the their components and one request because no system can bear so such huge amount of data and the number of each component time in in one network element is not certain so so that it is hard to use pagination so one possible way is that the network controller provides retrieving data from network animals one by one and secondly in currently relational database implementation are commonly used in ict industry and for different in one to object they are safe in different tables both in the network controller and the other system so when doing the full synchronization uh the network controller shall combine component objects together according to this modal structure while the upper system needs to cross classify and and so them into different group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "this combination and sorting progress is inefficient even if the time consumed from one narrow element is not too much but it increased by increased linearly with the number of network elements and could become hours with 10 thousand never ends game network okay next page please and this slide provides some detail on the workflow when doing the full synchronization in the first step the client can collapse some other inventory object uh which are not defined under the network element for example equipment room and racks and then the kind can start to synchronize the network elements data and and the components underlay but before that you need need to retrieve the identifier of all the network elements but this step but don't take too much time okay next page and then the kind will retrieve the components of each uh network element one by one when the server receive the request and internally it will query is a different table to construct this response the chases the slot the border the pause should be combined together to a single component list the client receive these component lease response it cannot recognize them quickly and and they need to solve them by the class attributes one by one these two steps step 18 and step 19 are time consuming and could lead to an efficiency issue in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "large scale network this in efficiency issue has also been found with other young data model integration and a mayor have been sent to sikham this and nemo mailing list to gather more feedback and from the wider group okay next page please as a summary the draft has been updated to clarify its scope and describe the possible efficiency issue with with the current model and for the next next step we believe that more discussion in camp net mode and this working group is required then we can determine the final model structure in parallel we will analyze more use cases considering other technologies and we think that the job is ready for working group adduction and the technical issue can be addressed through normal working group progress process also in contributed have a weekly meeting every so here i make some mistakes uh every wednesday from 10 a.m to 11 a.m uh in american central standard time anyone who is in uh interested with uh invented uh inventory is welcome to join this call just let us know okay the discussion minute and most of the information can also be found in the github repository that's all for my presentation thank you thanks to you i i i'll start with the questions so during uh during the week at the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:03",
    "text": "routing area meeting uh we were requested uh to report on work that might need coordination with other working groups and we brought up protein lighting where we already have a pretty good interaction with the teaser and this is one of the other topics that we brought up i didn't remember that you already had the the the draft presented in opsa working group that is extremely good so if they are uh happy to have the draft uh being progressed as it is in c camp uh i think that we can uh we we we can make we can make a poll is my understanding that correct that the obstacle working group is is happy to have that the work being done in sea camp yes in last meeting uh for opsawg they suggest uh us to run these drafts in c camp and and we also discussed in sikkim last meeting and we agreed to stay in uh in sikkem working group okay okay you were in the queue with your theater okay then rob hi sorry um robinson i've not been able to review this but i do think that with the overlap with um maybe the entity yang model that's there today somewhere maybe this is a network wide one i basically need to review this it may be that this might be better to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "um rather than see cam i just want to understand what the scope of this document is i want to make sure that we get sufficient reviews across the right areas to make sure that we don't we're not standardizing a very generic thing within this working group and start getting sufficient reviews so i think that's the key thing to me is make sure we get those reviews they're not saying it can't be done here but that's one one aspect the other the other comment on uh in terms of the structure uh again i haven't actually reviewed the documents so it's hard to comment but um in terms of flexible models it's worth looking at the open config platforms yang model um because they have a way of um being quite generic and flattening a tree-like structure down into a list with parent and and sub uh parent subcomponent or children pointers um that allows you to have fairly generic structures and still have the data so i think that that approach may possibly work here or it's worth looking at okay thank you uh for the first question uh actually we are open for uh the weather to run this job in in uh c camp and uh opposite wg and if uh if you consider that uh our analyze on the old lab is not sufficient or maybe we still need to do some work and maybe we can have a check through email after this meeting okay and for the second question about the uh [Music] trick structure integration and and if there is a uh is a lot of uh a lot of level and there's a the tree is very deep and we think that they did they could be uh could be issue when do they doing the integration and i also send the email in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "there uh seeking working group and maybe you can you can have a look and then we can have a further discussion okay thank you he could easily so sorry i was just saying that it could easily be that the the the draft might end up being split into two parts one of which is a generic and will be progressed in in the opposite working group and there might be a more specific one that we can take in second that that's a a fairly uh viable option as well yeah yeah let's just say it's just trying to find the reviews get the right reviews i'm not that concerned about where the document's done it's just making sure we get the right comments and things uh if you drop me an email then um then i can they follow the discussion on that side and also i can give you a point in terms of the structure but i need to review this anyway okay thank you thank you okay thank you in a good order to come right after robert yeah yeah actually i agree with danielle saying that the ops awg expert is feeding back saying that this model is quite close to the hardware inventory when it looks well currently the term inventory is a little bit uh misused or overused in the ops awg and the same terminal having different meaning so it it would be extremely useful to clarify the quote for each inventory related work and the expert some of the experts fit that with us this is more closer to the hardware inventory and it's okay to run in either side and regarding the kind of generic units and the technology specific features from the hardware inventories and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "we do think there are a quite high percentage of molarity and that means if we only stand if we only stand from the perspective of optical there may not be very much technology specific augmentation like we did in the pauldron tunnel are you up it's just some quick comments on the scalability problem uh because this model is used at the mbi open a controller which interfaces with the mini network nodes right so if we uh try to get all the inventory data from all the nodes in the in the network uh it's the data is going to be huge and that's where the the scalability problem is coming from whereas the open config model um it's a single network element so the data is not as much as what we would deal with in a from a controller perspective and when we have discussed this issue in our weekly uh meetings and um i i mean would be rather interesting to what the community is dealing with that level of data um and how they deal with this philippines because certainly our goal is to uh not not interfere with the beta model structure a big just because there's the scalability problem i think it would rather we need to have find a generic way of dealing with that problem thank you thank you uh the folks working on this product should really have a look at the open conference"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "point about uh i don't really understand whether there's really a lot of ability issue but uh yeah i think this should be considered okay uh okay you're still in the queue i think we can move to the next slot we have 20 minutes left for two presentations so 10 minutes each has as planned the next presenter please thank you chairman campaigning yes yes uh i'm a shopping from zp uh presently and we have to call this from 10 mobile and next page this jobs provide some continuation requirements with existence in the draft and also it provides some configuring registrations the first group and the past client configuration model next page now here the standards were for are being published accelerated in information implementation agreement including version 1.1 to 2 and the flux petrol that will be supporting a variety of ignite microwave normally not corresponding to an existing ethernet file rate and in in atu it industry it uses the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "flexi the information and it also defines some privacy adaptation functions from two termination functions and the relevant management information in ietf second or group there are several jobs talking about flexi frame controls and configuration models currently using the proxy computer model draft get a good catch of previous discussions about flux modeling and gives a basic effect c configuration model that's a good start point to put forward the flexi modeling thank you next page based on the standards and the drops mentioned and some discussion in the mail list convergence requirements are summarized into three categories uh here you can see flex group reflects calendar from the first client for the flight scope it includes such requirement as configuring the device google play wireframe configuration and if inconsistency exists notifications to be invoked for the flux current the requirements include configuration updating the usage state of canada source and verification for flex client the requirement include assign calendar slots adding or removing files clients into or from the price group next page this figure shows an example configuration including a flux group between the flux multiplexing node and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "the flux steam of the ultimate flux node which with four 100d files bonded together and two flex clients occurred over this first group the flux group should be configured before the flank flex client and the initial configuration commands could be from external monumental system or sdm controller the flex con the flex configuration model shows the natural parameters about flex group and the flexor client listed the model for could be used for further augments or extension speed okay this the right part is the young tree is accepted from the flux e configuration model and the on the right part some of the data nodes are described and explains where they come from when will be configured for a state will be updated next page here is a example showing configuring the flag scope in the flexi max and the flexi d-max you can go to the details if you're interested in next page this part the red part of the youngster is also exported from flux configuration model and on the right part details are described and explained and the next page"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "this page shows those uh flexible configuration transit clients two flights clients configuration in the flux max and the flux d-max next hit next step next steps and we'll update the draft according to the work group fetchbox and to propose merge this dropped into the plus configured model draft and i hope the merged draft would be adopted as work group drop in netflix thank you rob please hi robinson um yes thank you for this um i think it's i know that the record was trying to work on flexi previously and then that work sort of got stopped and so i'm really pleased to see this coming back i think it's great um for you to work on a model in this area and to get that done so so that i'm really pleased with um i sort of agree also agree that merging these two drafts together the one that's talking about applicability the actual yang model that makes sense to me um often you sort of see um examples of how to use the ammos in the appendix um so that's a good thing to do one comment i've got in terms of this the current structure the model this is probably more on the other draft than this one is i questioned a bit about having the flexi client configuration under the client interface rather than having it under the sort of flex e container that you've got on on slide five so it's about side five and seven and my reasoning for that is that the flexi client configuration isn't really so much about the client interface as in everything else you would normally expect to be on there but it's actually related to how the flexi interfaces are set up so if you look at for example a time slot list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "that list isn't sort of independent of each client interface you need to make sure that the time slots you're using are sort of organized with the other client interfaces under the same flexi as a group interface um so that was that's one comment i have i don't think this is a like a must-have change they have to make but i think it would make the model a bit more consistent in my mind so that would be my recommendation but i've also provided that to the authors directly when they when i review this thank you how is this a flexi drafter related to the draft of one sick second flexi young configuration model 0-2 i if if you wanted to answer what is the relationship the relationship between the two drafts uh uh in this in this draft we do the example based on the first computer model the first draft and also we summarize some requirements i think that's that part did not exist in the first product i mean i i agree will drop one thing that these two drafts seem to be perfectly fitting together and merge into a single one uh i i only have one question uh i mean i i will i'm seeking for confirmation from you there was another draft another configuration model"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "draft a while back that was left to expire that seemed to be competing with the configuration model not with the one that you just presented but more with the configuration model i don't know how the um let me say the competition was assault it was just that the other one was left uh uh to expire or a solution a common ground was founded between the two drafts in the uh in this configuration model because i mean i'm i'm happy to merge these two drafts and progress them but i would like to make sure that this is something that everyone is happy with is not that we are leaving something competing behind and forgetting about it we don't want to renew the progress drop and we want to merge this drop and with the first configure motorcraft okay thank you that's fine thanks we are ready for the last presentation hello hello can you hear me yes yeah thank you um i'm sure leo i'm from china mobile and that's the top authors of this draft it's a high tool so i will go through quickly"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:04",
    "text": "first we need optional network to access flaw to support high quality connections for areas such as finance medicine and uh and the ott companies so previously usually we use it network to access network we suffer from issues such as touring and the congestion of package so after transport network start to play a more important role in carrying carrying traffic to access class but there are some short terms for current optical transport network now for example right now optical transport network usually unify the flows it cannot identify the priority of the services also we need and provided provide a guaranteed performance for option network another thing is uh optical networks need to support small granularity for service to access clause because there are many and customer to access clause another thing is we need to support a message connection and the network should be dynamic slide please so previously we have uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "example several use cases the first one is multiple choice assessing we need to support the multi-point automatic point uh access rather than previously just point to point next slide please uh the second use cases high quality leads the luck previously a high quality uh private land on intel support unlocked fundraise low latency high security high reliability and the proposed control and management system of of the new optical network should support differentiation of sra adapted to dynamic performance chains be aware of traffic demand and faster deployment to customer customers the event next slide please another example is claude virtual reality it require high specifications and so and high team demand so also the control and the environment need to support awareness of service for the most start and end time and dynamically it turned into the bandwidth uh next step please so in summary and uh requirement for the control and management service for optional network to exercise clause need to support the following core features the first is it supports supporter various uh such as uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:02",
    "text": "earth are one two are three sorry uh service to to assess the clause uh the second feature is a service awareness it can and if you know the start at the end of the service and uh and the dynamic uh change the sra according to the requirement of customers [Music] the second the third thing is reliability it should adapt to the network with fast recovery and the last thing is sustainability because it needs to support the massive access so next slide please so uh this uh draft gave the update of the pre and uh actual total problem and statement and uh this statement annoys more photos are optical optical specific characteristics and it also focuses on control and management systems so the intention of this draft is to confirm the usefulness of the optical network for exercising clause and this draft either i'd further get analyst and the problem statement and we call for interest and drawing contribution thank you thank you hi um hi guys thank you for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "the presentation and i just noticed on your summary slide that that you're looking for um contributions and sort of interest in the work uh the use cases um were quite high level it will be really interesting to know uh what specific requirements have been derived from those use cases uh the the point i want to make is that there's a european um commission funded project called terraflow that that i'm a member of and and we're also working on this area sort of using a an optical underlay for interconnecting cloud resources for um terabit packets services so there is maybe some interesting [Music] requirements that we've identified in that project although it is research it has commercial applicability there are operators involved um in the project so i'm wondering if there's maybe some uh some technical uh findings conclusions that we've sort of documented that may be useful for this work i will post those maybe in the chat window and follow up with you offline that will be great amiana thank you thank you for for you to raise the very important point as a few more information uh from the previous days on this ietf meeting we are also aware of some nice work from irtif from the cam buff and from some other work groups talking about the future of the routing protocols and it looks we are also from this draft we are also evaluating where is the filter gaps and try to find the next objective we are setting to the current protocol stack and yeah we would like to invite more review and comments from the working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "that's it thank you thank a lot and for once we are perfectly on time that's it for today thanks a lot uh everyone for participating apologies to rob for uh producing more work for him than most of his working groups and uh thanks a lot to to ema for being so active in helping us moving forward our younger work that's it for today thanks a lot have a good rest of the day bye okay bye bye you"
  }
]
