[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "note taker note taker note taker bring me a note taker alright folks can we start closing the doors in the back there and getting people to sit down you still need a note-taker thanks Pete you got one no I just closed the doors I\u0027ll ask her to close the doors but I don\u0027t do that sign language all right folks time to get started let\u0027s get situated welcome to the second session of the TLS working group we have a jabber scribe identified but we still need a note-taker going once all we need is the highlights the hums and the good stuff anybody willing to volunteer going once going twice I saw somebody smooth but there wasn\u0027t a wave at me Mike excellent thank you all right we owe you one appreciate it all right this is the note well it\u0027s Wednesday afternoon ish you should have seen this by now basically you\u0027re gonna be at the microphone it\u0027s gonna get recorded got an IPR please disclose it more informations available we did the minute take urge a prescribed blue sheets are currently making their way around I\u0027m at the microphone please state your name at the mic let\u0027s keep it professional at the mic as well as being succinct we\u0027re not gonna do any of the other update stuff cuz we already did it so now we\u0027re gonna switch over to the other presentation which is the main show well they\u0027re coming and going so this is a draft that we\u0027ve been having a little bit of a tussle about for at least the last four ITF it\u0027s not really good sign when the one of the workgroup chairs is at the front of the room giving the presentation about the draft it usually means that we\u0027re not in a great place and that\u0027s the case here I feel that it\u0027s a little weird that the chairs are doing this and that kind of openness opens up for appeals but basically that\u0027s life and we\u0027re willing to deal with at this point um why do I think we\u0027re here my only personal perspective is that we as like I say we cross the streams so we\u0027re basically crossing browsers web PKI dns ii dane all at once and so everyone gets Lively and it gets exciting a little bit of a Mia culpa here we haven\u0027t done the best job in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:13",
    "text": "being chairs during this process I think that we have a lazy fair attitude about a lot of things sometimes and hope that it would just kind of work out and it hasn\u0027t so that\u0027s why we\u0027re here and so hopefully we\u0027re we\u0027re going to try to fix some of that today um we\u0027re willing to take some of the blame but I\u0027m also here to tell you that there\u0027s some blame to be laid at your feet as well so my plan is to provide an annotated outline of the time of events there\u0027s others that you can use to follow because I posted it earlier in the week to hopefully maybe get you up to speed and that if there\u0027s repeals later that it can be uses as the appeal input also because I got the mic there\u0027ll be some teaching moments that I\u0027m gonna let go and again the ultimate goal is to see if we can figure out what we\u0027re gonna do with this raft so Sarris questions audience participation if you are here please raise your hand all right nearly 100 percent participation who\u0027s reading their email all right great who knows what Dean is that\u0027s a pretty good size of the audience that\u0027s good who knows with DNS SEC is all right look at all right Oh jeepers that whole typing thing all right who has read the draft okay that\u0027s that\u0027s pretty good who\u0027s followed the list discussions all right we\u0027re getting more than more than I thought I\u0027m saying it for the people in the room that\u0027s not bad who has read the presentation shown just clarification yes do you want fully because the narrow service amount is such that no no no I just followed the list discussion in some way shape or form so yeah we\u0027re like quarter all right who\u0027s read the presentation all right we\u0027re like down to five so I got a question is who\u0027s planning to implement to this draft all right so I see like three ish hands who\u0027s planning to deploy the draft well three ish hands okay all right so that\u0027s good to know um so just kind of started off back way in the day Victor says yes to those okay okay way back in the day we had an initial post like in 2015 right we did this I think it was Melinda that sent this draft across and it was like great there was two quick threads like the numbers in the parentheses of the amount of messages that were sent now I may be on or off by some because I get a lot more messages about drafts that you maybe don\u0027t cuz I\u0027m in the chair but hey the best thing was really awesome is we got an agreed use case in like ten emails and it was this the idea was primarily aimed at making game practical for HTTP or small considerations on the client and her significant part of it adoption barrier and the short version is basically this think of sustained stapling kind of like OCSP stapling um and that was fairly easy to get to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:13",
    "text": "that\u0027s actually a quote where Victor and Melinda basically agreed it was great got a great kumbaya moment basically everyone went pretty normal yeah there\u0027s a lot of messages that I didn\u0027t include in there which is me picking the author saying well if there\u0027s no problem let\u0027s just push this damn thing forward and keep going so not a lot to happen so all these things are they\u0027re all hyperlinks you can click on them and read the threads and the whole nine yard I put the app signs to show you if you want to jump into the media Co presentation to see where the discussions started so you know just to kind of get ready to go working group call for adoption we had about ten people that send in stuff we confirmed basically what we found at the the meeting it at ITF ninety father that was interest in moving this thing forward and off we went just to know we had no ITF last call comments during the generous re during the IHG evaluation process we ended up getting a discussion going in Eric\u0027s thread where Victor there was a downgrade attack and the what this was was he\u0027s basically claiming I\u0027ll explain the downgrade attack later that this was a problem it it had been in the draft and there were some text in there that had a identified mitigation stand for it but basically now it was kind of as done as a showstopper so the downgrade attack itself was basically you know the short answer here is that day means downgrade resistance against P kicks attacks and that was the stuff that was from the the draft you know outs in a whitelist that client misdirected to a server that is fraudulently acquired a public CA issued certificate for the real servers name could be induced to establish a PKK\u0027s verified connection to the rogue server that precluded day month indication okay I put it in quotes because some people don\u0027t think it\u0027s they don\u0027t think it\u0027s a classical downgrade attack but that\u0027s why I did it so I\u0027m trying to be as fair as possible here to both sides sorry yes so ITF 101 we had a discussion about that particular downgrade attack during the meeting and what happened was the discuss that occur had got cleared and then the document got approved so the problem was right so hey the document gets approved we\u0027re all happy well you know did we really address the the issue that was raised during the discuss and did we do it properly so not surprisingly right here we had office threats of Appeal at least - that was where and so to kind of address that we decided to do a consensus to publish as is or to address the work noob issues and this was the consensus call itself I don\u0027t want to read this all but basically it\u0027s like do you just want to publish but if we\u0027re not gonna publish do you want to start adding some text about denial of the existence and pinning stuff and then a bunch of other things that happened later so if no then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "what are we gonna work on so this is where the teaching moment starts so we had 20 people participating in the thread we had about 10 people actually answer the first question which was nice we had 10 people answer some vague amounts of questions not always the first question and some other question that they wanted - oh we had other people that didn\u0027t have anything to really say about the threat it just wanted argue when the chairs ask these things it\u0027s much better when you actually answer them because it helps us judge consensus and so the interesting point here is if we were just straight-up counting this document would have been published right it was a split decision but we as the chairs decided basically that there was enough consensus to do a and there was enough discussion to bring it back to the working group now that didn\u0027t happen immediately for whatever reason but that\u0027s basically what we decide so just to be clear a was essentially to put some adding denial of existence proofs in the chain provided by the extension all right well that\u0027s the big butt here but we screwed up and didn\u0027t tell the office we\u0027ll just put the text in now there\u0027s a reason for that though and we\u0027re going to that the second as a minor aside here\u0027s the message count before and after this is just to kind of illuminate the amount of threads that happened and these are the public ones these are not the public the private ones so there\u0027s been some thread so it\u0027s not like we it\u0027s a little different in that if you were at the quick session you saw that there were lots of people talk to you about it there were like 29 people I think toll or something in me threads and that this is like the top 10 so text proposals we had a lot we had some from Victor we had some Shuman we had some from Ben and then Victor kind of pulled a bunch of them together and did proposals for the interim which was great there was some proposals that were I guess I would consider close to consensus and some that were a little bit extra but that\u0027s life and then we even had an interim about this just about this the interesting thing though was that we had office proposals and then after the interim we tried to have a chairs put together some summary of the minutes and what was the actual you know facts on the grounds were and we had like a hundred emails and couldn\u0027t agree to it we just had to send with what we thought we thought we had so that really wasn\u0027t fun it really kind of wasn\u0027t great and we\u0027re really not making the ITF great again there so that\u0027s kind of where we are now and you\u0027re here so there\u0027s the whole timeline if you want to see it presented the whole shooting match now since for some housekeeping right oh shit I thought the right version "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:25",
    "text": "in any event but we are going to do is provide some actual direction to the authors who the ones that are here I\u0027ve talked to already and basically what we\u0027re going to start working through is the 24 part commit and what parts to get get merged and I apologize for this so while you\u0027re not using a microphone can I just use it for a few seconds about feedback on what you\u0027ve said so far yes okay great so you\u0027re missing one entry do we actually have a site meeting as well that the previous ideas we did if you\u0027re the interim where some people thought a lot of things retreat and then did all vanish and smoke again but emergent more generic point here I\u0027m by this way I\u0027m Paul about this the how you list the graphics of the participants and how many emails they sent comes really close to shaming people for sending email and I really sort of object to that sort of trend where you say like all these people are either too aggressive or mail too much I I understand that when some people mail and they sent large emails because they\u0027re extremely pedantic that these emails are large and it\u0027s sort of you know some people don\u0027t have the resources to read it but this comes with really close to sort of shaming people from contributing to diet yet that was not my intent I did actually run the slides by other people and I did think about putting like author and participant and all that kind of stuff I just put them out there it\u0027s not it\u0027s not not just shame people it\u0027s just too so that there are some active participants it should be low Thanks all right keep going keep going all right now to some housekeeping all right so next so we had a consensus call during the security considerations thread um the four questions that were asked was do you support the working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:26",
    "text": "group taking on future work of pinning mechanisms do you support reserved bytes in the revision of future pinning mechanisms do you support the proof of denial existence text in their vision do you support a new and improved security considerations obviously the two on the right or the number three was basically kind of redoing than one of the first ones and the number four was text that we thought people seemed to be basically pretty happy with and one into where we think pretty much where the big argument was so we had seven people in that thread not great we\u0027re basically at the point where were finding it difficult to to judge that there\u0027s consensus to progress the document especially when it\u0027s split like it is so what happened basically we had yes we do support the proof of denial existence text and in the revisions and yes the new and improved security considerations and we did not have support for pinning or for the reserved fights so with that what we\u0027re gonna do we\u0027re gonna we\u0027ve I\u0027ve started this process already is to merge yet there were there\u0027s a 24 part commit in there with that\u0027s a little interesting to follow but basically we\u0027ll Emma started working on this stuff there anything that there were a bunch that were marked as editorial and it\u0027s gonna go through there and the ones that are editorial we\u0027re just gonna merge the goe related stuff we\u0027re gonna we\u0027ve reconfirmed that we\u0027re gonna do that so we\u0027re gonna push that text in there we\u0027re gonna let them identify which ones are do you related because there\u0027s some that do more than one thing they\u0027re gonna merge that text and then same with the security considerations text and try to figure out how to do that and then they\u0027re gonna publish a new version but what after that we\u0027ve been circling around for this for a while we are getting less and less participants a lot of people have you know told me off list so take it for what it\u0027s worth that they feel like the things been some of the threads have been hijacked some of people have thrown their hands and up and walked away some said that while they would participate they um don\u0027t have time all kinds of other things so we\u0027re kind of at this point where we can do a couple of things since we don\u0027t have consensus with the painting you know the extension stuff in we can basically publish a consensus document that we have now without the pinning of the reserve feels and obviously we\u0027d have to make sure the text all makes sense from the the points that we\u0027ll merge or we can just basically have it gradually die because the people think that consensus document is just useless so we\u0027re basically trying to figure out what to do here and we\u0027re we\u0027re hoping to have a home on these two options I think I heard Victor in the queue yes hello you can hear okay so the first thing I want to mention is that the call to say that there is no consensus and there cannot be a consensus seems very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "premature because the landscape has been shifting recently we have recently clarified the lack of the foot gun we\u0027ve had a few people acknowledge that analysis Chris wood posted a message summarizing the analysis asking for some responses and objections nobody posted anything that in any way refuted the analysis that you have demonstrated that the pinning is quite different from the analogies to HP K P that were being posted at this point there are very few people claiming that the pinning has anything bad and they posted nothing of substance to back it up and so I think that with a little bit more work the pinning can get support and we\u0027ll go through and you\u0027re shutting down the argument halfway through and at this point I see no basis for failure to properly analyze and understand the issue in the past to be a predictor of the of the future because the process is recently in fact gotten unwedge des is moving forward and I strongly object to that to what\u0027s happening here this is an ambush the slides got published late they did were not available for on this discussion before this meeting and I\u0027m sorry this this is not a good way to resolve the issue so the last part of the slides were not as I was still talk B I was still talking with the editors to make sure that they were gonna make changes the first part we\u0027re posted on Sunday then kid responsible ad I just have to point out that apathy does not represent consensus yes their husbands and text on the list yes there has not been people objecting to it but we need active agreement in order to declare consensus Paul Volcker\u0027s I\u0027m a little confused about the term consensus document there because so that\u0027s that if there was consensus it was an RFC is it clearly not consensus also yes okay so it\u0027s the idea is that after the consensus changes that we have changes that we have consensus to make we would merge those then that would be the consensus document of this working group that would be progressed forward to the ISD okay so then and this is a remark I\u0027ve made repeatedly on the list as well if you\u0027re publishing an accurate extension with a downgrade attack where the downgrade is between quotes or not that is not something that should be possible by saying there\u0027s consensus to do this down gradable thing I don\u0027t think consensus overrides a security concern Paul that was Paul Rogers Venkanna interjecting again is responsible ad there are an awful lot of things that you can publish and we can feel unhappy about it but if you publish them and you document the security considerations and they\u0027re reasonable uses even within those security considerations it is still valid to publish yes it may not be generally applicable but if there\u0027s you know an application that people are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:27",
    "text": "going to use and correctly document the actual protocol behavior is valid publish and as a concrete example of that we I\u0027m Richard Barnes so we\u0027ve had some discussion on things to be as few big about issues with using IP use after free that effect acne we are continuing to progress acne despite the presence of that security risk all right very still okay so sorry I\u0027m I\u0027m really confused because because for for the generic use case as you described it on the second page of your presentation that the description that everybody agreed on it says no being able to use Dane in a browser for authentication it this document in its current shape basically says you can use the in fourth education and this extension will prove that you\u0027re not under attack only when you\u0027re not under attack well I guess I should have asked question as well are there are there any browsers that are willing to get to the microphone to say that they\u0027re planning to implement this you can also have later on but I\u0027m thinking that Nico is probably in LA yeah I was so let\u0027s gain the chance go ahead yes oh sorry I didn\u0027t have an indication so right I think you know Victor says we were making progress on the foot gun thing I think a lot of what was going on here is that a lot of people didn\u0027t want to even engage with the proposal because you know this fear of foot gun because you know hey pkp failed and in fact there has been no desire to even engage with the arguments on foot gun not being of a gun you know this is what Ben refers to as apathy of course you could easily call consensus right you can ask for is there a foot gun you could actually ask that question and that would further progress towards consensus well we don\u0027t see this instead we\u0027re saying hey we\u0027re all completely out of patience you know too many emails and so on and you know there have been a lot of emails but nothing like Jason\u0027s back or any number of others so I\u0027m a little confused it seems like you\u0027re just ramming this through you know I think you could you could totally ask this is there a hit done right since that\u0027s the only real objection if there isn\u0027t one then what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:29",
    "text": "the real objection is are there any others and I think you\u0027re just cutting it short you\u0027re just saying we\u0027re you know I understand the desire for that but I don\u0027t you know I don\u0027t think you actually I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve actually gone through the process correctly all the way you have the mic okay yeah this is only just channeling Victor Victor the company would like to remind us that TLS is not just for browsers that is true however the point is that about the use case I think I\u0027m in line ahead of Victor\u0027s is right yeah actually Martin Thompson he I have no plans to implement this that is from the browser side of things and when presented with the wall of text that came out and I apparently I\u0027m a sort of a small fraction of the number of emails that have been exchanged on this topic when you\u0027re not planning to implement something investing the amount of time necessary to follow the thread and participate in the thread becomes a bit of a losing proposition so from my perspective the reason that you\u0027re getting fewer people involved in this is because they\u0027re not interested in the feature and I\u0027m willing to deal with the volume of email that we\u0027ve had on the topic and not something waiting in line quite a while now I don\u0027t see that stopping unfortunately and it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of toxic afraid Paul Hoffman I want to emphasize what Martin just said at the end because the conversation was toxic it\u0027s not that I\u0027m apathetic I just didn\u0027t want to participate I kept in fact I had a couple people on both sides trying you know trying to get me involved and I would say it\u0027s not apathy that you\u0027re seeing it\u0027s sort of message sickness but it\u0027s also a lack of leadership quite frankly we\u0027re taking it on the chin that\u0027s why I\u0027m doing this well but taking on the chin by saying that the group has been apathetic is not actually a way to do it I think calling things again like you\u0027re doing now if you had done that on the list weeks or months ago would have caused numbers to go up so I\u0027m hoping that you\u0027re going to do that again um and okay so I won\u0027t go on in that but I had a question at the end of what you said here he said when it goes back to the iesg look it\u0027s back in the working group the assumption is if we could actually get okay another working group last call they pulled this out of off yes so wasn\u0027t that Narcy enters - so it is back in the work okay so it is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:30",
    "text": "officially back in the working group I will I will admit that even though I\u0027ve been sort of trying to follow along I didn\u0027t even catch that so okay David\u0027s cannot see Google two points first one speaking as browser developer no plans to implement this and that goes for both browsers that I\u0027ve been involved with lately and the second point as an individual contributor to the working group I want to echo what the previous people said this the time it would take to invest in this I don\u0027t want to take that time just the mental stress of just even reading these so yeah please please please kill this let it gracefully die or if impossible not gracefully die this is taking up huge time on the mailing list and in the working group and if this keeps going on I\u0027m thinking of maybe I wouldn\u0027t attend this session because I am NOT interested in this and please kill this so we don\u0027t lose contributors that I don\u0027t know about myself but I\u0027m sure others could provide some interesting feedback to the working group please kill this arrow scroll I don\u0027t need to duplicate Martin statements about what we go over on implement um I guess in terms of signal you know that I certainly agree there been a number of assertions in Manilla list about what is theirs not true um there\u0027s been a bunch of back-and-forth I\u0027m not sure apathy is the right word but exhaustion might be um um I don\u0027t he should not conclude in the fact that like I only stopped responding on the mailing list that I agree with the claims didn\u0027t made by several people I believe Victor was next to rich hi again so here we are and yet the document even with the twenty four commits still has major gaps that I had postponed talking about until you know it was clear that you know we were we were going somewhere and I wasn\u0027t just gonna write commits that nobody was going to read it fails to properly explain how virtual hosting works and there are some subtle issues there that need to be clarified if it already it fails to deal with the TNS TTLs and how the service supposed to handle them and that text isn\u0027t written the document still needs considerable work and we\u0027re merely asking for a fucking to bite field pardon my french that will not in any way be onerous to any implementers is well motivated and has seen no through their contract not nobody has explained why these the bad "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:31",
    "text": "why they\u0027re incomplete all week worth really so ok so nothing has stopped you from publishing a draft that included all these things that you wanted the second thing is just because there\u0027s absence of discussion of a proposal does not make it good we had this exact problem Dan Harkins I can fly draft right if you really really wanted that thing and there was just kind of like no interest in moving it forward there are more than one person here that\u0027s interested in doing this but that does not seem to be many more writer okay rich solve Akamai yeah I kind of tuned in and then got back involved because looking at the recent posts on some of these threads that the claims and the way it was sold isn\u0027t isn\u0027t any longer accurate victor has posted that oh it can be yeah thanks victor has posted oh it can be used to strengthen the web PKI by adding in you know various other authentication schemes paul has posted that it can be used to limit the web PKI because browsers you know there\u0027s too many unrestricted cas in the trust store and so it\u0027s not just oh well ad gain is a strengthening thing it\u0027s now become a completely separate security model or possible to implement a completely separate security model so if we\u0027re gonna reset because i don\u0027t think i think there\u0027s some active people here who just gonna keep fighting let\u0027s go all the way back to the beginning because the use case isn\u0027t accurate according to the proponents of the draft with or without the two bytes wes her tucker is a speaking with one of my hand salon I am the IETF guides one of the co-chairs to introduce new people into the IETF and one of the things that we have found after listening to a year\u0027s worth of feedback is that highly negative discussions caused people to drop out and when you need the consensus of the IETF you needed the consensus of the participants this downward slope in participation in discussions is far too common when and I am equally as guilty right those of us in the security field we take a hard line in the stance and we don\u0027t want to move and we\u0027re willing to state so loudly but the problem is is when you word messages that don\u0027t take the high road and how you deliver your opinion it pushes people away and and very generically of the feedback we\u0027ve received in the past year 90% of the negative perceptions come from this working group and it\u0027s a problem and I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "I\u0027m just saying so think about it as you\u0027re writing your messages going forward please think about am i putting this in a derogatory way or can i encourage participants by rewording it in a polite way that still gets my technical point across okay now back to the matter at hand I\u0027m concerned with option A because publishing the consensus document without the agreed-upon text means that technically that document hasn\u0027t reached consensus so missing one piece of the document where maybe there\u0027s non agreement upon it loses the notion that the the people that disagreement about the the section will be happy with the consensus document when the reality is the reason that it was needed was to get consensus around the problem in the first place of by dropping it you\u0027re you\u0027re still not in consensus to publish the whole document it\u0027s rough and the idea would be that we\u0027d obviously have to get the document and put it out there and then do an actual work move less call to determine that that was actually rough or whatever kind of consensus we would apply to it Eric Kinnear from Apple I just like to confirm that we have no plans to implement this so Paula occurs in response to rich on the under usage cases so the teal assay records in DNS already defined these use cases so this working group cannot go ahead and say what other use cases or are involved these use cases or with it Tila say traffic so the usage selectors are clearly defined egg you can do pinning to restrict the CA you can do pinning to restrict the end certificate you can do pinning to restrict to the public key those are all defined in RFC s that are out there and there\u0027s DNS clients that use this information postfix will use this information that is all out and deployed and everything and we\u0027re now just looking at how can we also get this security for those clients that cannot reach the last mile to get these records via the normal DNS Channel so that we\u0027re not talking about introducing new authentication mechanisms or new PGI\u0027s all of these things are already out I\u0027m exist and then my second point is I\u0027m a little confused that the people who don\u0027t like pinning seem to be also the people that have no interest in implementing it anyway so why not let the pin and go on for those people who do want it and do want to implement it you don\u0027t have to implement this RFC if you don\u0027t want to but why are the people that are not planning to implement it blocking me from my use case Wow I couldn\u0027t have picked a better psychic outstanding um because I ever poseable CI r approval to get out of this mess which is the following Erico scoreline um in i in draft RFC what is the number Paul Sean on the that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:34",
    "text": "the I Anna consideration to CLS eighty four forty seven right in our CV for forty seven we allow you to get Co all the code points you need based purely on is the specification and so I proposed um so and you\u0027re right we don\u0027t have any intention with this and I have no objection that Co point be allocated what I do object to is the document being published always proposed with endorsement else working group therefore I propose is we take this other tailless working group you should feel free to take this ID and on that basis apply for a code point and with any semantics you like whatsoever pinning no pinning but extension bytes no extension bytes any cements whatsoever and then we will simply be done Richard burns oh okay off the last two words there let us be done well I think mr. skin now see mr. Hardaker summarizes pretty well now is the moment on which to call cloture on this debate and to move on one way or the other I think there\u0027s sort of three paths I had two guys in mind that the chairs articulated well but I think ecers articulated a valid third path you know if there is some if we can roll back so some things we agree on and implement those things and get people to a point where they\u0027ve been willing to go forward and publishing all means let\u0027s do that and succeed if we can consist succeed but if that\u0027s not possible then I think it\u0027s now this is time to take this back let\u0027s take it out of the working groups queue and the authors can start over either with this document or with eckers approaches they like yeah and to be clear like gracefully died in the working group there\u0027s always the possibility for someone to write whatever draft I want to have it be there just be an internet draft and request code points they could go to the ISC they could take it to the area director they could there\u0027s lots of ways for these things to get published we\u0027re not talking about stopping that publishing it\u0027s just that we don\u0027t have consensus here to give it right the buttock whether this goes out the the productive end of the working group pipeline back out the back end it\u0027s time to get out of the pipeline channeling Tariq Suraj from Jabba room I would come to a comment over what left guy from Google said yes that\u0027s David that left the document die gracefully or ungracefully I\u0027m sorry it is still a contribution and it ended proof that this kind of implementation doesn\u0027t have the community consensus and that\u0027s kill it basically please highlight my comment Thanks I Steve Barr I guess I\u0027m just gonna agree with the last couple people and I don\u0027t see how you can kind of get to a concentr working group consensus document with the pinning and reserve so I think that\u0027s kind of a pity but I think that\u0027s reality so maybe you know taking it to the IOC with getting code points is reasonable but I mean I also agree that you know I think we should try and draw a line under this and you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:40",
    "text": "know on what basis one and you know object something if one doesn\u0027t prevent you know any evidence like you know if the people who don\u0027t want to do this are the only ones that matter I actually well I\u0027m here Lauren Zack levy at Lorenzo Covey and that\u0027s my name the having seen this happening on working groups that end up spinning at wheels for a very long time on a very toxic doctrine it wasn\u0027t kicked out and then the working group was she we chartered and so on ISE is really an easy way out for everyone here the only question is if I were an author I\u0027d want to know in advance whether someone would then block my ISE submission on the basis it was conflicting with the ITF or it will be clear that if they if they get kicked out of this working group or decide to go out or whatever they do the first question the ISE Asus says have you been fee I that\u0027s it the CLS working group they will ask us and we\u0027ll say yes here are the hundreds of messages here\u0027s one one we said you\u0027ve been set loose scope we go forth be free we\u0027ll make that very clear so so it so it seems to me that any participant in this working group can tell the authors of this draft that they will never publish this document in the next 50 years because they\u0027ll beam in this room of goes in them no and the is see if they go the is here out there was no ifs call that will be a 57:42 review and the babies will look to us and say did you talk about it here and what I\u0027m saying is that it only takes one person in this room or two or three people in this room to tell the authors I will always oppose your document no matter what you do and you will never pass it isn\u0027t it isn\u0027t it no really okay you live a nice in a nice in a nice happy world where you read the documents you believe them that\u0027s in practice what happens so I mean I I know this is not a nice thing to say Dornan yeah so we just had a contentious oak Evelyn and I\u0027m on the ISC board so we just had a contentious document go through the ISC and the is e takes the advice of the IAS G from conflict review they don\u0027t have to adhere to that advice they can publish anyway they are their own publication stream that advice is is very important it\u0027s very helpful but they have that option what I\u0027m saying is actually from an author\u0027s perspective it is way more likely that this document will ever be published as as an ISE than through good through this working group and so if I\u0027ll row back my earlier statements and the interests of consensus yes okay maybe nobody can stop our document forever but in practice it\u0027s gonna a lot harder to get it through this working group than out through the IC right and and that\u0027s something that I\u0027m gonna row back on my earlier comments I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:40",
    "text": "think we should we should you know in a spirit of collaboration recommend to the authors that they go that route because it\u0027s gonna be a lot better for Rob David\u0027s canasa aka the guy from Google I\u0027d like to clarify my earlier points I was not suggesting to about a Paul in any way to prevent anyone from implementing this before me because I don\u0027t have that power and you do whatever you want that\u0027s fine I was not suggesting that you don\u0027t try to publish this somewhere I\u0027ll see that you can do that have do whatever you want all I was saying is this needs to move out of this working group when I say please kill this I\u0027m saying please kill this discussion inside the tls working group you\u0027re most welcome to implement this to deploy this to have a draft somewhere else to go try to publish it somewhere else just not here so just to address that question Victor raised um generally we do not in the ITF assume the only people with status to discuss for a documentary against our people and implement um so I hope that\u0027s totally true because I\u0027ve been participating for years discussing things I don\u0027t plan to implement so um you know the question is it\u0027s a working group have consensus this is a good stuff and I think that\u0027s the where this is going around for I want to clarify I don\u0027t lose consensus for either variant of this um so I think if there was falling ground on both on both count on both versions rich Sawbuck my yeah Victor also understands the importance or the difference between working group and non OpenSSL has a policy that if it\u0027s not a standard document it\u0027s not gonna go in unless somebody on the project really really really wants it so yeah it might have been a rhetorical question so so I think maybe what we\u0027re gonna try to do is do a little sorry oh you guys over there sorry you can go ahead oh yes I have a lot of sympathy for you we\u0027re really tired of this thing argument I won\u0027t really object to moving forward in any of the ways that were proposed just now effectively both drafts to ISE you know or one but if we do one in the working group without pinning I really really want the denial of existence stuff in there right so so the bugs have contracts we can agree to disagree on pinning but the the bugs have to be fixed and you know I agree that if there\u0027s no desire in the in the working group I don\u0027t want to das the working group so it is denies he it is so Niko yes to get to that point I guess I want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:40",
    "text": "to do is kind of bash the questions on the fly here one is keep working on it in the working group one is set it free Cullens pullin drinks just listening as conversation i consensus is measured at a Cullen Jennings consensus is measured at a point in time and I think you almost need to ask the original question you ask for any work which is does the working group have consensus to work on this because that question is obviously open at this point and it\u0027s just one question it\u0027s a very simple question we ask all the time you could ask it again easily and I suspect the answer you\u0027re going to get to that question will result means you don\u0027t have to debate into more of the finer details yeah that\u0027s why I was basically gonna just try to go for you know are we still interested in working on this document yes or no and doing a home on that I just thought maybe I should raise my hand to continue the previous thing I just want to make sure that we get the actual question up there because I know that everyone likes to put the words in different places and include commas so however we can get to the point where we can get to a window that we can type some words we can work Smith lon it\u0027ll fly so while you\u0027re doing that stay in New York just to be clear for folks to who are looking at you know saying let\u0027s punt this to ISE or something or let the authors choose that just the author or the folks who I mean should be aware that that is he also means it\u0027s either informational or experimental it\u0027s not a stun non-standard yeah it was great when I was actually reviewing the the minutes are the very first presentation and Phil how Baker got up and was like man you guys should really go experimental it was kind of interesting maybe that would have been a good way to go at the beginning but who knows alright so I think what we\u0027re looking for learn zouk leave my tie point outlet is e has the nice property that it says right at the top this is not an ITF standard and sometimes people get confused when they see rfcs and they think their standards and I see is I think the best vehicle that can be produced by the ITF in terms of lessening that confusion yeah I mean but I again I think that would be up to the authors of the new version to go where they see fit so it\u0027s so it\u0027s gonna be a yes or no home so please some now if you are interested in continuing to work on this document in the working group so that\u0027s pretty clear consensus that there\u0027s not interested in continuing to work on this one okay please some now if we think through the working group should not work on this draft that\u0027s pretty clear so I should be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:44",
    "text": "clear also that I\u0027m not really happy with this outcome it would have been a lot better if we could have got this this worked on it\u0027s unfortunate this happens this is not our shining greatest moment hopefully we will have some learning moments and I\u0027m interested in hearing your opinions on how we could do a better job that concludes this session thank you for those who help a lot your note sort of for those who know yeah for those who know Bob Moskowitz there\u0027s a get-well card out by the printed agenda in the second floor feel free to sign it now I\u0027m going to mail it to him when I get back home you "
  }
]