[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "uh I cannot think of a document but when you said expiration I thought isn't there any useful Co parameter for K keys or something yeah but I don't think that Coy actually explains why this is needed this just assumes that that you want to expire things and um so the the in a more introductory docu document over there in skit that might be a good use ah for such a poter I I'll think about it but I cannot think of anything out of my head I'm curious to know if you stumble over one please send me Sure Link uh yeah I I have problem searching for that because it's so motherhood and apple pie that that uh um it's certainly was something that that was the way things were done at the time I started to do security so that there was no new paper like about the aad limits which which kind of popped up from nowhere and by the way there is no Kiki common parameter for that okay yeah so let's go for the usual for past rule yep okay yeah also joined in the meantime so I yes by so do you have any slides ESO uh no no slides okay so we just show the notes yeah the notes will be good yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:28",
    "text": "so I think we're going to have relatively simple discussions anyway and I'll try to capture as much as I can in the notes uh any help is appreciated thank you rard and it helps if I put the link to the notes in the chat there we go for so does anyone know when somebody shows up up as zulip user in the participant list uh I think you need to be still somehow logged in in zulip and recently active in the in the course stream"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "probably yeah okay so I have no idea what it means that CHR and Misha are in this list but nobody else yeah also because I see Malisha online in zulip but not Christian actually oh well okay but uh since it's for past let's start um welcome everyone the notw one yes yeah I also see the note well [Music] now I hope that is not copyrighted music in the background no original performance think Marco had a problem with audio or not yeah he already sounded pretty broken up okay it's better maybe yeah yes okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "great okay um what we have in the agenda for today uh brief status update uh on some uh documents in AD or isg review and the point raised by Esco uh on the registration of URLs uh Uris in interface registry and the put request on the HF document um from Ken um is there any topic or any bashing on the agenda none okay uh do you want to take the update partc car then yeah so um right now we have two documents in the uh in various stages of isg processing uh one is covid and I reported about that two weeks ago at the ITF um we we had this uh breakfast where we discussed things on on ITF Monday and we had some some further offline discussions uh during um that week and that um as I reported on Wednesday that caused Roman to to take away his um discussed but we still have two discusses out there that are in older versions of the uh document and um I have been uh trying to to nudge the ads to fix that but of course this is a busy time with the um Thanksgiving holidays coming up and and even the European ones probably have to talk to the Americans about everything that needs to be done before Thanksgiving so that will probably take some more time until this is done so we're just looking forward uh to to those uh discusses is getting cleared and um then um we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:04",
    "text": "need to address the the remaining uh comments and then we might be done and the the other one is uh Oscar ad hoc and I think Marco you can report about that better than I can um soon reply to the reviewers uh if they don't shout we plan to uh merge the PRS um and submit a version uh 10 of the document uh latest early next week and then it should really be in the isg hands yeah the next um isg meeting is on November 30th um so we will are nearly well if if this is submitted this week it might still go there I don't know how full that meeting is uh otherwise we will go one meeting later right okay okay thank you uh then on the next topic uh those are the notes U from Esco uh Esco if you want you can share your screen or otherwise I can oh yeah you can share the notes if you want yeah it will be fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "yeah so let's see that should be this window this window actually and I can make it bigger okay yeah so I think I just copied that from the previous interim where we had scheduled that oh that's go again yeah I didn't touch anything oh okay maybe it just detects uh slow network connectivity up again yeah so this this was indeed raised by a question on the core parameters mailing list and maybe just to say the background was that uh there was a registration request for basically uh specific uh core interfaces so uh for the core parameters registry and these were basically using Ur NS and so my response was basically well we you don't need to register anything With Ur So your eyes because uh that's already managed by the name space of the organization that has has claimed that particular Ur or URI so we don't enter these things in the registry and then um yeah the question comes back basically but okay how can uh people who are who maybe want to get an overview of what are the yeah all the the core attributes that we can use for example inter face types or resource types those kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "things so how can we find them uh easily if they're not registered you don't see that they exist and you don't seen that the basically the core link format is actually being used by organizations to Define things so I think that's that's how this question was raised so uh would it be useful or interesting to have something like U yeah maybe like an informative way registering that uh okay there is an organization that that uses this and defines uh core attributes and you can find them here maybe just pointing to uh the organization or spec that they publish I think that was the latest idea I have because doesn't seem to make sense to register all of those things if they are in private Ur or U name space yeah so there is a registry for your namespaces and of course KX is in there U but uh yeah that that's a a 160 line document and of course most of those registrations are not about iot so um this is not not really a good way to uh find registration so the only thing that the the KX registration says is the KX Association um is behind that and um of course there are templates um uh I don't know where to find those um so there's probably some some more information somewhere um you said we we don't need to register the the URS in the interface um or or resource type um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "Registries actually we are not allowed to yeah right the the text doesn't give us leeway there otherwise you could say okay we we do a a friendly registration of that um but we can't um so the the question is is there another way we could collect this information um probably not at the ayna website but but on one of our uh websites and I think what we came up with uh in the discussion was that we probably should have a a Wiki page uh doing that uh which is referenced from the core lending page yeah so this could be from the basically the work you mean the working group uh page is that the data tracker Landing page basically no the the the GitHub landing page for the core working group and of course data tracker can reference this as a resource um again even though I'm not sure how a working group I know that a document can reference a resource but I'm I'm not sure about working groups I would have to look that up yeah I think I just looking at GitHub now uh you just get a list of the repositories and yeah that's basic basically it or not there's a pin repository there working group materials that's not yeah yeah and we we would probably just put a pointer there um the wiki could be on the the main working group repository or um we can decide that uh but I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "it's uh the main point will be to uh first of get keep the wiki alive make sure things actually are written up there and uh to leave the necessary pointers um to this in all the places where we think these pointers are good and I think we could even get uh aenna to put a note into the RTA and if uh Registries uh for this uh this is probably a new thing but I think we we might be able to do that yeah that's at least easier uh to do I think for Iana than having uh so some sort of new registry for the top level Ur So that yeah that could be another possibility but then you need really do need a new registry even if it's an informative one where you can voluntarily register items I could point to a Wiki I think that that should be possible ay want to add another registry that that actually is not needed for for the purpose that Registries are okay yeah that could be something but yeah I'm just thinking we don't have this Wiki yet then so if you talk about P well I just put the the links in the chat and the first one is to the rout of the vikii where you can create specialized vikis and we have five or six already um so it would be about creating a new um specific Viki on this then the vi Wiki do you mean Wiki or wiki page V page the first link I put in the chat yeah that's the the home page of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "core Wiki right and it's called Wiki Wicky W okay so the actual uh resources are um in that list on the right uh I think You' be about creating one more of those and then we can put uh that list and then that particular Viki page uh can be linked um in the landing page and that's the second link I put in the chat uh and as a resource in the data tracker or an aana register if possible yeah I'm not seeing the oh that that link yeah yeah that's the Ling page yeah H which by the way is pinned on top of the GitHub page for the core GitHub organization so somehow we may try to pin as much as possible also the link to to that viy of course but maybe we can start preparing the the list of URS in question and when we have all the material we can try to set up the details like a viip page yeah okay so maybe ask if you start preparing that list and and send it to us then then we can follow up right so we'll make a start and think about that yeah maybe there just only the KX related entries there but there could be a few more yeah but sure we we'll try to make it as visible as possible with the that we have I think I think that's bit of the if you talk about the wiki wiki page uh it seems like there there's one item"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "there in the center that draws your attention and no no it will be a new dedicated page that in the web page you're looking at now you see listed on the right yeah but it kind of is it built from the repository actually um yes yes yeah it's under the core workking group GitHub organization still Yes second link wait a minute that's not the second link no now you can look at the code of the wiki and then there's just the readme.md file with with nothing in it okay interesting just trying to see how this works so there's nothing in actual code for the core Wiki project if you click the code uh so I've never created a new page from scratch um I'm pretty sure sorry give me a couple of seconds and we will have a page wak in with ah okay oh it's the basically using GitHub Viki uh system so it's kind of separate then this probably lives in a branch then or so no it doesn't live in a branch it's not not a branch it's actually a separate yeah uh mini repository so if you uh if you go into um oh I don't know how it works for a working group uh organization but if if you have a Wiki on on a draft repository uh then you type the repository name and then do Wiki to to get git um document a get repository that is just the wiki information but you can also use the the the user interface um the web pages from uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "GitHub to actually edit those yeah okay so here's my new uh Wiki uh this is not a great permanent link because uh um we we might want to edit the title and then suddenly that link doesn't work anymore uh that is a bit suboptimal yeah be really uh some place that remains stable right yeah yeah I was also thinking that that you could have wikies but U it's also just an idea to have um some sort of uh very simple you just have a one markdown file and then put it in a repository and that's that's the reference and you can update it using the git uh normal git operations right you could even just do the the put the information in the readme yeah readme MD with a list and uh so you basically land on on the page and you you get the list and that's it well at least the not sure what benefits yeah the Wiki page has benefit that you can maybe edit it right right in the web browser yes yeah so it's it's easier to get other people to add information to a Wiki it's easier to control uh who edits information in a repository mhm yeah okay well something to consider then okay okay so once this is populated we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "link it wherever we can we can certainly start collecting the information on this wiki page and yeah if we want to turn it into a repository that's a simple operation because in the end it's all marked down yep that's good okay thanks a lot Esco yeah thanks for the input and next item is H and I saw slides from carton yeah let me try to find those okay so we are in in this uh process of of uh applying finishing touches to the hre uh document and um up to a couple of weeks ago we mostly were focusing on test vectors and that is still relevant um but there there also was uh uh one more point that that Christian actually brought up uh now that we have all these wonderful CIS you might want to support actually using them in the context of coab and of course one one way of using CIS with coab is to use them the same way we use your U eyes to with corep which is we have defined procedures to convert the the information in the URI to coab options like UI path and and UI query um and so on and that's in sections 6.4 and 6.5 of RSC 725 52 and we could write uh analog sections"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "uh for CIS I didn't manage to do this before this uh meeting it probably should be pretty straightforward uh the the only technical meat uh there would be handling the anomaly of of a trailing slash uh right behind an authority so we we went with hdp piece exception uh there and we would have to explain that in in this new section 8.1 for for CIS as well so that that's still to do the other thing was that we discussed there there are two uh C options that actually um probably deserve getting analoges um and one one is the proxy URI uh option which we use with uh forward uh proxies to give them complete your eyes so for instance a forward proxy could do an HTTP request for us which of course we we cannot describe in just in coab options we we need some something special for that and we uh designed proxy UI for that but of course it would be much more appropriate for for a constraint system to use Cris for that so we we add a cab option called proxy uh CI um the other thing that we may want to do is that there is this lightweight version of proxy U where we only add a scheme so we would have an identifier for the HTTP scheme in the proxy scheme in the existing uh proxy scheme option of RSC 7252 and given that we now have a way to number uh all schemes we might want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "make use of a more compact uh number so let's look at these two in sequence uh the the proxy CI is is pretty boring this is uh an option with the same CU andr settings as the the proxy URI uh and uh the only difference is this time it's format opaque because it's binary data it's the encoded SEO data item for the C but otherwise it has the same semantics you do need to say what happens if somebody puts in both the proxy UI and the proxy CI um I wrote that the crii overrides the the UI uh and um I also wrote that you must not send uh a CO message that has both uh so you must not send but if you receive one then you know which of the two to prioritize so I think that's pretty straightforward and uh the the other one is the uh proxy scheme number so this is has essentially exactly the same semantics as the proxy scheme EX that the proxy scheme option uses the text label and this uses a numeric label we do not even need to C encode that numeric label because coab comes with its own integer encoding but Co only supports unsigned integer and we are currently using negative um scheme numbers uh so we we have to mirror that uh space into the non- negative uh into the unsigned uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "space and I wrote text that that just says the the value of this option is minus one minus the scheme number uh so for scheme number minus one which is corab you get an option value of zero and for scheme number minus two uh which is SC s you you get an option value of one and so on um option value of zero of course can be represented in zero bytes in in and an option value of one uh is represented in one bite uh and so on so when I wrote this I wondered whether uh first doing all this work for for making the scheme numbers negative and then um kind of U undoing that work in this option whether that's actually the right way to do things um for for for people who look at uh the the registry uh it may seem very strange that we're using negative numbers in the registry so the alternative would be to to make the registry unsigned and do the ones complement on the scheme ID number that that starts that can start um a c so this would be uh no technical change but it's it's a different Exposition um so the the registry would would be unsigned and um you would only turn it into negative uh for for use as the First Data item in a CI um so I think that's easier to explain um but of course it means uh changing a little bit in in the document to explain it that way so I'm not yet sure that we actually should be making this uh change uh and the current PR"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "request is not making it but I'm I think it would be a little bit more palatable uh that way and I I would love to hear feedback on that carsten to understand better in that case the the registry would include an entry zero for Coop so it comes from zero right yes okay uh and and then for the um CRI instead that means that the the scheme ID there is computed starting from the value in the registry and then you increment and negate you increment and negate right because Co-op has to be minus one in the right so the the formula would would be the same that's on on the slide scheme number equals minus one minus option value right okay only appli to compute scheme ID yeah so of course if you uh if you are writing this in C you would just use the tier operator so um all CPUs have have that in one instruction um but uh in math we don't have a TI operator so when we Define this in the document we say minus one minus okay okay yeah I think it sounds good uh What you proposed with uh going to the positive numbers in the registry and maybe I just would like to know what was the reason for for going for the negative I think it's because the the positives were used for uh for other things right in CRI yeah in in CI that starts with an unide number which might be zero or positive um that is um a discard uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "value and a negative value is a scheme number so that just means something very different yeah okay that was the reason then yeah yeah yeah then it makes sense I think what you provos okay so I go ahead and update the the with that approach kren I think you had another discuss Point um on the gab yeah um so we currently have no way to provide a location URI with a different scheme so we we cannot say uh in the response to a post for instance um the the newly created object uh is here but please use Co plus TCP to get to it and and not uh just coab and that that is um uh a limitation of 7252 which which at the time we thought uh was appropriate we didn't have cor plus DCP yet so we didn't see a lot of of um applications for including the scheme information there um but now that we have uh different uh coab U schemes uh we might want to fill this hole and if we want to do that uh then of course having a numeric way to specify this uh would also be useful but it it's it's not something that directly comes from HF it only came to my mind because I looked at the ways your eyes are handled and we have uh uh the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "request uis but we we don't have a complete set of uh C options for the location Ur So we could fill this in in in this round okay uh any plan to introduce it also in its non CRI version or non- numeric question that's always a question uh why do we need the other choice I mean we we it seems clean to have both choices like we have both choices with a scheme but if we had had the the uh your ice scheme registry in in 2013 uh we would never have proposed to send the text label we would always only have used the the scheme number um so I think that that given that we have a situation where we have that registry um it it seems appropriate uh to only support the numeric version these are good considerations to have in the document anyway I think yes someone will ask at some point yeah okay uh yeah looks good I I think it's pretty uncontroversial uh details apart but okay good so this will appear also in the next submitted version I suppose right okay so I'm I'm going to to work on this P requests do the two things we just discussed um write the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "text that is analog to 6.4 6.5 uh with the procedure for converting between uh CIS and coab options um and then I'm going to ask for for approvals for this PO requests and we we can go forward with the next word yeah about the first discussed Point by the way one should then really or has no apparent reason to convert the CRI to ur first and then use the 7252 procedure to build the options right no but it probably should give the same result right I was getting there okay the whole point about handling this in in terms of cisis that you don't have to convert to a text format and then back to a binary format but there's not much we can say on the opposite direction because the opposite conversion is left undefined for your eyes yes but um I'm I'm haven't made up my mind yet whether we actually would be defining it for CIS uh because we we we don't have all the the uncertainties and vories of of the um text format here so we could actually say there is a well defined meaning of the grab options in terms of the the CI that that's coming out at the end all right yeah at the glance the proposed option numbers also look correct I hav super double checked yeah so I I was thinking they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "should be in the plus one one plus one space so they should be less than 256 uh because in particular if if you are using a proxy C uh you there may not be a need for any other uh option um so uh it makes sense to to have it reachable via one by uh from zero and uh I thought then we should put proxy scheme number in the same space but we should be filling this space from the end and since 35 and 39 uh are the proxy UI and proxy scheme uh option numbers uh it's nicer to remember if we just add 200 to them but let me check those those numbers and that that's a good point yeah it's always quick to see they're critical and they're available but then yeah okay oh looks good thank you any more question or input for Ken n which brings us to the end and there's no particular aob just a reminder that um with did schedule an intering meeting uh in two weeks but we don't really expect to use it unless something really critical and Urgent uh pops up uh otherwise we we plan to not have it actually and then we resume in January and that series is also scheduled okay so if we don't talk into weeks uh see you on the list for a while yeah maybe we should just mention that there is an adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "mention that uh yet and if there's anything we can discuss about that now then we should do that um otherwise we can discuss it on the list or if all El fails we could actually have that meeting in two weeks and and have a discussion there but I think the the adoption calls are um pretty uh noncontroversial yeah on the topic of the adoption call I was going to write a a mail to respond to that because I've been following that document and I've also been working on an implementation of the uh functionality described so I was planning to to send a mail on the list regarding it great yes please do yes Esco uh your mic is on did you want to say something oh yeah I was just all wanted to say by but then the adoption call came up uh so I just wondering uh is there anything I could do there um because for the authors of the document they don't have to respond right or or they can sometimes they can well let's have additional information that that might help the working group chairs make a decision uh then thene provide that yeah well okay not sure if there is any but uh could be uh useful to think about it yeah so this this is a confirmation call so we had the in room consensus and we are confirming the in room consensus so if if nobody sends anything then the the draft will be adopted okay very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "good all right than see you next time then so have a good holiday time and uh uh good start for the new year if we don't meet in person until then same to you yeah thank you yeah same too thank you so much bye-bye bye"
  }
]
