[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "just in time oh my goodness all right we got about 26 people here i'd say we got we got a good crowd we should uh we should get going here don't you think i think so all right welcome everybody this is uh registration protocols extensions working group i'm here with my co-chair antoine and we only have an hour this time uh however uh we have a only about 50 minutes scheduled but let's um and i'll just jump right in here i guess we'll get right to it here um very quickly the note well you've probably seen a variety of versions of this so far in the ietf uh this is our standard version that we've been using all along and other groups use something similar um this note will is uh most this particular version is mostly about uh protections you know about the ietf your contributions status contributions patents and that kind of thing it only has one comment down there at the bottom about you know if you have any issues with how you're being treated at all uh we have an ombuds team that you should certainly go to and in fact um i'm gonna pop up this extra slide here a new one this time around itf code of conduct you've probably heard different versions of this in other working groups this week um they've been uh asking uh working groups to uh put an extra effort into reminding people about you know professional behavior or at least reasonable behavior and so this is stating the obvious but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "you know just seems important to put the obvious up sometimes and uh make sure that we're all on a on a good page and remind us i'm not aware of any problems in our group but then again if you uh have been to the ombudsman about something that might have happened here we wouldn't know anyway unless we were somehow involved in it so just consider this reminder and please make sure to do the right thing okay let's move right to our agenda this is our standard agenda uh certainly agenda bashing can happen now or at any time um that uh anyone wants to jump in here but this is what we've been using for a long time you'll see here that we have uh 50 minutes and a little bit scheduled for today in our one hour session in fact 50 minutes and 16 seconds so let's jump right into our welcome and introductions and our first thing is a notes taker um do we have anyone who's willing to write up some notes for us here and just keep the bullet points going for us in um yeah i'm forgetting what the thing is called but you all know what i mean the note-taking tool and rickard richard rick wilhelm joined the queue here let me get let me get some go ahead but i can can you hear me okay yes we can yeah i'll join let me just get signed in and i'll uh i'll log in all right excellent thank you very much rick really appreciate that okay moving on trying to stay within our four minutes oh document management i should say one thing about document management um you're going to hear a lot about this when we get into talking about our existing work you know antoine and i like to remind people that as part of adopting documents we really would want to make sure that we have a shepherd other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "working groups do this and this is something we we've been trying to do here along the way we will get a discussion about a new document potential new document here i want to make sure that we get a document shepard with that before it's adopted and a milestone um and we kind of neglected that with one of our last documents but we need to figure out where things fit like that and one thing to mention here an additional thing that we haven't really said before but as a reminder to this group documents move along when people uh have energy and suggest that they move along it's important to keep that in mind it you know if you need discussion on the mailing list let's have that discussion if there are issues but after that it really is up to the document author and editor to step up and ask for a document to move through the process if there's no more discussion they should ask for last call um and that kind of thing uh and just as you'll hear some uh requests later on for adoption you know again it's really all about the document authors uh moving things along so that's a useful thing to keep in mind let's jump quickly to our next thing here and we have published on our agenda we had 16 seconds allocated to tell you none um we don't have any documents that have been published since july in our working group and that's okay if we move to our next item on the agenda existing work and we take a look at our existing work i'm moved one too far status of existing work in progress you'll see that we have three items actually in the publication process um sadly the first two have been in the publication process since before july although now they are on the tail end of the process they're both in the rfc editor queue the 7484 biz is now moved back onto an isg telechat"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "december but uh it's otherwise still on the isg side and hopefully it will be reviewed and approved at that point and then move into the rfc editor side of the publication process so let me pause here for the moment see if there's any questions or comments about any of all that from anyone and not seeing any hands uh then let us oh go ahead uh antoine you had a hand up i saw a visible just to remind everybody of course that uh 7484 this is a document that is changing its status and that's why it's taking a little bit longer in all the um in all the review states yeah that's a good point it is moving and upgrading to a full internet standard and worth it for folks to keep that in mind it's joining the other four of the five rdap based documents and it is the last one to move along and be upgraded so thanks for that and on okay next up we are now going to move into the bulk of our agenda here our existing work we have a number of documents here we have five documents six documents in here and we give everyone five minutes to talk about their documents i will do mine first and then i will turn this meeting over to antoine uh we had an interim meeting a joint interim meeting with the icann technical operations group back in october 20th we had quite a good turnout there we've had a few of these over the the last couple of years um probably had one one a year i guess the last couple years i shouldn't say a few um the reason why we do these is because as we all know in this working group we don't get you know too many uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "registries and registrars that participate here we've got a really good core group but we don't get as broad exposure as we'd really like to get so the icann tech ops group has a very broad base of technical participants from gtld registries and gtld accredited registrars so it's very helpful to expose our work there and and often get some some good comments about it um we'll leave it to the individual folks here who were there at that meeting to say anything about their document that they got in that meeting it was only an hour long we had 10 minutes of document we had a couple of comments along the way but more than anything else it was good to have exposed our documents there so that we can now progress them in our environment in good conscience knowing that we've we've shared them with a very broad set of people and of course we did our usual encourage people to join our mailing list in hopes of commenting on documents and we do that i do that fairly regularly in the tech ops group there are a few others in this group that are part of that group and and we all like to do that at technical operations meetings so i'll jump up to my document first there myself and my co-author joseph he with simple registration reporting we um our document we believe is done at this point and and really is is ready for working group last call so i expect that that's what we're going to do with this document uh shortly after this ietf meeting um and it's worth noting that this document was born out of icann techops in that group they originally had proposed nine different specifications for reports and joseph and i proposed a much simpler method of just creating a registry of reports and a registry of what they look like and so with one document work we are you know pre-defining all of those standardized documents in a way for that to evolve much more easily than having individual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "documents per report so um you know that was a good uh collaboration between tech ops and regex and i think with that i will now move this over to antoine and that means i will have to unmute right okay then the next existing works we have mario mario has a presentation let's see if i can bring that up which one would you like to start i think the reverse search you want to start for with right mario please share your slice reverse search just a few information about the how the this draft is going on um next lies next is right please uh i just posted a new version that that replaces the reference to obsolete [Music] rfcs 7482 7483 so there is no relevant changes since the itf last itf meeting next slide please uh but i i have some private feedback first feedback coming from yazdeep so i expect that yazdeep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "[Music] will provide a further feedback on the many least just correct me if i am wrong i see that you are participating the the meeting and but the next steps are essentially to define a likely use case to explain better the proposal and the topic that the proposal aims to address face new some technical points that are summarized here in the following and eventually to review the query model to be to meet the requirements coming from these uh from new feedback and obviously add the implementations uh other than the implementation or provided by dot id registry as jim has already said [Applause] we had a some manifest manifestation of interest from last interim meeting so i'm quite confident that there will be a new some implementation this proposal in the next future honestly i don't know i can say a date for a reasonable milestone for these for this to to submit this draft to isg and but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "i can't presumably say that next spring could be a a reasonable date next tight please okay that's uh all from my side about this draft [Music] okay thank you mario any questions to mario if not then we are going to look for the deck again and the next thing on the agenda why doesn't this work for me as smoothly as we do jim ah there it is ah now we see you mario yeah i forgot to switch the mind the video the video let's see so that was the reverse search document the next thing um on the agenda is the federated authentication of rdap um scott do you have any comments to make about that we saw that you posted a new version uh sure thanks antoine scott holland back here well so indeed just uh earlier this week i updated the draft to address some suggestions made by mario he's done some implementation work uh and so you know of course that's always valuable feedback however there were a couple things that he and i didn't quite agree on um because they would be much more significant in terms of changing the way queries and responses are structured and formed and so i threw that out to the list folks if you've you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "know if you looked at this draft particularly if you've done any implementation work i'd really value your opinions um in terms of you looking at those suggestions letting me know what you think um i mean it's not that they're unreasonable it's just that they they're they're big changes so please take a look share your feedback on list it'd be greatly appreciated okay thank you scott any questions to scott about this one if not then we will go back to mario about the js contact and i will put up your slides for those and now don't forget don't forget to put on your camera so everybody can see yes just a couple of slides again about this draft it is co-ordered by me and gavin central nick that i don't i don't see a now participating next slide please the new version last version published the reflect the changes on the jmfjs contact document so the main changes are about the the how the localizations uh are handled in uh in just contact so how can be entered in in just contact inside out up next slide please so i changed the bit the the the list of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "the map keys that are recommended to be used inside uh just contact to represent some information that uh they mostly used [Music] in information provided by registry and as you can see the dos map monkeys reflects the the text existing on uh defined on rfc five five 57 53 and the localizations are uh managed by including them in the localization map that is present in js contact specification next slide please uh next step is now just contacts patch is uh quite ready to be submitted to the isg yesterday we had the meeting about uh the jf meeting so the last open issues are how to treat the gender information and how can the name be structured to to follow the to adopt the requirements coming from a public review issue of the unicode consortium but these changes does doesn't have any impact or the information that normally stored by the in the registry databases so uh i don't think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "there will be some other changes uh on this content that will have any an impact on just contact inside the art up obviously i think that we have a data implementation addition to dot id central nick has already done his own implementation but is not live at the moment it will be live soon other registry have manifest they interest in this proposal and are currently implementing it as it it comes from the feedback from the last entry meeting so i think that is if the js contact milestone in jmap is uh next pre next spring or april 2022 i think that just the reasonable milestone for this document is the same so every 20 20 22 so i think that or a month later so [Music] i think that we have to wait for the complete process of just contact to to to to finish the the review process of just contact inside adapter that's all from my side uh about this draft no next slide because she's like yes oh god"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "okay any questions for mario i will i want to raise a question for the group here to keep in mind this document this proposal uh at least for java implementers so i expect feedback also on that side i really finish okay jim go ahead antoine can you hear me yes i can hear you yeah so um i want to raise a question for this uh group here with respect to this document in particular because at the moment this document um doesn't have a designated status to go to um with respect to uh going into publication we have not had that this is the one document we actually adopted it expressly leading open this question of should it go onto the standards track go on to experimental be informational we wanted to have that discussion and i want to remind folks about that discussion with respect to this document we will need to have that and and make a decision and the primary reason for that is that j is contact of course uh you know our rdap is currently implemented is with jcard not j is contact so we really do have to think about uh what that means uh in changing the standard um and if that's really where we want to go so we don't have to we're not going to solve that question here um and do you want to point out the folks that please uh do comment on that on the list and and speak to that question and we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "will have to ask that question and get an answer before we promote this document to a working group last call thanks i i will say something about this this argument uh [Music] yes it's true that the adopting this extension they add up will be changed but uh not formally yes in substantially but not formally because [Music] as far as i know the vocabulary property is not required in in the response so [Music] so it seems to me that it's a a relevant change but not a formal change of the adap portable i don't know if uh i i'm correct or not well i i i'm wrong or not so maybe scott can be more he is more he's more knowledgeable about this uh this talking topic but uh as it seems to me extension like any other so because uh it's it's not uh uh that does not violate any constraint or in my opinion okay i saw murray first but then he left and let scott beat him so scott go ahead please yeah i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "wanted to hear what scott has to say before i pipe up yeah yeah okay uh thanks antoine thanks murray scott holland vic here uh yeah to be a little bit more precise i think mario you're absolutely correct uh what we're talking about here is not something that is going to update the existing internet standard versions of rdap as in it's going to replace j card and if you claim to be rdap conform it you have to do this we're talking about a specification that will define an optional extension which when it gets to wherever it's going to be and if you if you're if your server claims to support this extension you will return information uh encoded instead of using j card as js contact right but it says but it's not going to formally update or otherwise deprecate you know the bits that are out there in the existing rdap standards okay thank you scott murray go ahead just maybe to help you answer this question um a couple of things i noticed um section five is an implementation status section thank you for including it i'm glad when anybody does that it has one implementation so far which describes itself as a proof of concept research implementation who else is planning to do this i i i would say to us about the scots comment uh yes yes i know that this would be a the the document in presents also a transition for replacing the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "jacod with js contact but at least in my opinion this transition will be completed when the sun condition will be satisfied for example a number a large number or implementation of js content in adapt instead of jakarta so so at the moment this is only a an station providing the information in an alternative format uh with respect to jakarta so the transition process is a way to give [Music] that has been presented in the document is a a way to give guidance for the implementers to how to manage the period where both the the js card the j-card then just contact could be provided by the the observer at the end of the end of the transition process in my opinion hopefully we will arrive to a complete replacement of js contact but oj sorry or jacob but i don't know the the time [Music] that this transition process will take so uh it depends so i would i would treat these this as an extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "of the adapter [Music] obviously a possible consequence is the complete replacement of jay had with jess contact but [Music] i'm not i'm not able to to to to say now we replace uh jay's contact with jacob so [Music] it could be that just the js contact will never replace jacquard so it could be it might be that the adapt server will be able to to to to to provide the contact information both in jessica and jihad don't know uh my hope is that the at the end the jacod will be completely replaced but i don't know the time needed for this transition process so so what you're saying basically is this is the next step right yes does it answer your question marie purposes of this i'm just trying to sort of give you nudges in the direction of should this be proposed standard should this be experimental um the things that we would look at i guess um and i think we'll discuss that on the mailing list as well right yeah that's fine i'm just uh providing input thanks yeah okay then we have another question from mark mark go ahead you hear me yeah um i was going to answer mary's question by saying that uh as a client as a developer of a rdap client or that browser mobile i intend to uh implement gs contact gcard is a pin in the s and uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "to implement uh just gs gs contact would be much better uh but you know it's related to the typical uh chicken and egg situation right i can implement it as a client but you know if nobody is shooting me data then you know what's the point so i guess i'm looking forward for some registries or some rdap server implementations to actually implement it then i'm i'll be you know implementing on the client side thank you thank you mark and you know look looking at at the time um uh i so i think the the the ask of murray was you know it will help if we have more implementation i also see in the chat that uh eduardo is saying that they're currently monitoring jazz contact could in support of the i can't read client and [Music] he says definitely would help if there were more implementation to test parsing responses using js contact so i think mario if we can get some more implementations in there it will definitely help the discussion about the the question of jin remains we should really look at what the status of this document is when we're going for publication and we should have a have a discussion on that on the mailing list and looking at the time i'm going to get the slides back up for the next document let's see where i needed to be where did i go i think i was somewhere here so thank you mario for your presentation um i don't see anybody more in the queue you can turn your camera off now yes thank you then the next i item of existing work is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "the use of internationalized email addresses in the epp protocol and let's see is dmitry [Music] in the meeting because he said he wouldn't be able to make it no um so dmitry asked uh asked us to uh to put a last call on this because nobody has made any more comments um so i think uh there's james gould who i think will talk on this on behalf of dmitry is that true james yeah i mean there's no additional work to be done on this draft we feel that it's complete and it's ready for working group last call so that that that's the request okay so that's basically the update so when we get when we uh we'll talk about the requested gemini then we will put up a formal working group last call thank you all and then the last one i think was there anymore and this is the last one uh yes this is last one rejected fields in the artep protocol jody roger jody i see in the queue go ahead jody no slides no slides but i'll turn my camera on um so several updates have been made from the draft that we had from uh basically made from feedback received from the mailing list and the joint regex and tech ops that jim was mentioning some of the things that have been added is an explicit report for js contact support for registered name and reason properties in the json value registry and we've added handling of entities with multiple roles to the json path consideration section now our next steps were determining if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "should be adding rdap search um if it should be added to the draft um there's been discussions of it but we'd really like to talk to or ask the working group if that should be added jim looked at the changes that would be needed and we would need to change specific lookup response language from the draft we need to replace it we'd also need to use relative json path expressions for search responses and use absolute json path expressions for lookup responses and then we need to provide examples of unredacted and redacted search responses to go along with the unredacted and redacted lookup responses we have so we've discussed it before but we just need the working group to decide if if support for search should be added to the draft that's the only known issue that we have with the draft and then we're just also looking for additional review of the latest version of the draft which is it which is point one i believe that's all that i have for the update i remind myself to unmute when i start talking right any questions for for jody and we have a question from gustavo gustavo go ahead just press your unmute button scared him away yeah we scared him when we asked him to talk he's having an issue maybe let him type something or give him another chance here in a minute if if your voice doesn't work gustavo or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "gustavo type something in the in the chat window and while you are doing that we'll go to mario mario go ahead just a comment i think that um in my opinion uh we we should uh pass from having a reductive responses in having a reducted objects in responses i think that this could be a make it could make it easier to treat these this extension in search responses i i try to to implement this this this extension in my other server and i i found some problems with search responses because [Music] it seems to me that having a a a in a redacted array not in the response but in as as an additional property of uh the object is more uh manageable but this is my opinion i don't know if anybody else this the same feeling about the implementation of this extension okay any response from you judy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "uh you know what i think i'll let jim answer this because i'm sure that he jumped on to be able to answer this question okay then jim go ahead and folks i want to remind everybody that we are right on the moment uh we are on time and we have one more minute left for questions on this one and then we really have to move on so james go ahead yeah what was the question i missed the question uh that needed to be answered do you have that question for mario you mean yeah i didn't i didn't actually mean to answer mario's question but if you're asking me to do it i need to know what that question is did you have another comment to make james no i did because i saw um gestapo wrote in the chat there he asked whether or not to consider creating a separate graph for searches and separate one for lookup and uh did that did come up um and there's the amount of uh reuse uh to be able to have it be in one draft makes a lot more sense if we were to add uh support for search to have them go together so okay so answer mario's question if you can be asking mario please type in the chat and then we will move over to richard sorry it wasn't it wasn't the question it wasn't only comments so thank you you can mario men to also give other people an opportunity to talk recurrent go ahead be quick so as far as the notion of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "included in this draft or in another one i think that that it would really if we're going to include it in this draft we should get after it and put it in and get it done right away because i think that right now this draft is going to be having it ready and done is going to be important for other needs of this draft as it relates to making it be useful and putting it into practice and so because i think i think that it was less important for search to be in there although it would be nice for the sake of completeness and so i think that broadly if we're going to do it let's dive in and make a run at it and if there is a lot of efficiency let's just get it done recognizing that it's really there for public search because that's when redaction comes into play it's not in there for authenticated or private or some other sort of gated search but really public search but i i think that if we are going to do it let's just get after it and and lean into it and not dither over it because i think that to say it another way the perfect is the enemy of the good thank you okay thank you richard and if jody doesn't have any more responses then i suggest we move on because we gave our next speaker a bit more time thank you jody and next on the agenda is mr crocker steve go ahead can you hear me yes i can hear you you didn't that flies right yes and and uh now i got to figure out how to um okay i guess i've requested them um didn't send them to did they did we yeah the slides are there in the meeting materials okay in the background there we go steve's got him okay yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "all right i always all i see is a new deck now i don't even see that um how do we get the deck up so with your name there's a button that says share preloaded slides so we first have a hand and then you have a document icon or don't you have that one share preloaded i'm sorry i don't look at your name in the queue yeah there you go what do you want me to put them up um slides requested guarantee there goes and then it starts it went away look at my name in the grand breathing audio oh um which chair which i don't see i don't see my slides in the did you blow down jim at the top you'll see a little loop arrow curled arrow click that once and then the slides will be there in your meeting materials so uh js contact reverse search chair slides reverse search chair slides i don't see one that looks like what i sent okay maybe it's one of the chair slides because you put it in no no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "hold on let's just do it for you because it's there um that will be fine and should i open them yes now they're gone let's see [Music] research worst case i could share my screen but um best if you could i must say jim that they are indeed not there so they're not in the preloaded slides okay are we having fun yet yeah do you want me to try sharing my screen i you know it's funny because i i see them there um let me let me you share this one you share them and you click yeah i was trying to do that before that's interesting actually you know what they're in the meeting materials but they're not in the list of documents to be shared how about that for an oddity um wow i don't know what to do with that how about i try sharing my screen that's yeah go for it i guess go for it and i will see if i can do it any other way yeah that's anyway i'll be quiet now if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "you can make this all work steve go ahead let's just get started i have i have hit request to share and now i grant you and there we go good and um let me let me take a big risk here and try to move into presentation mode there we go okay now which one you see it works perfectly okay good all right so thank you very much um so this is new work that uh being proposed here and the bottom line is to create a an iana registry of uh dns registration uh data elements it's all contained basically in this slide although i have a couple more to show you uh this work arose out of watching that there were multiple places where one could find out what the list of data elements are if one is is working in the registration area which which we are and so for example rdap epp icann contracts and and probably other places all have lists of data elements and new ones are coming and in particular we've been working on uh a project that has some uh observed that there is no unified standard place to find a list of this data elements and so the natural reaction is well let's create one so we're proposing the creation of a unified ayanna administered dictionary uh and we've put together a first cut at this in the internet draft that you have this is not intended to be owned by our project or indeed any other projects tended to be a um a sort of building block that in the uh in the general spirit of how things are done on the internet to put it out there and then anybody can draw from it and then of course it will have to be modified over time as people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "want to add uh i don't think there'll be too much withdrawing of data elements but from time to time adding new ones and so a little tiny bit of governance in the usual way a an ietf appointed set of experts and just to limit the scope of this the point is to have the list of the data elements and a decent amount of definition of what they are but not to have policy issues or implementation details that are generally specific to an application and after some discussion it became clear that this working group was the natural home for this and one point that has come up in some discussions is is it intended that this would cause or force a change to existing uh implementations or systems the answer is no it's first and foremost intended to be aligned with what exists and second of all to be something that is available as needed or as desired but not to act as a forcing function at all except in the usual way that when something is there it attracts attention and so uh it's a sort of marketing issue so that's the uh the basic idea let me give you a brief glance at what the initial set of data elements that we've drafted together and put into the internet draft but it's a first cut and i will not all be surprised or unhappy if this evolves over time and where do we want to go from here well quite obviously we would like for this working group to adopt this as a work item and to emphasize where we want to go this is not a protocol per se this is a building block for protocols that is turn it into an iana managed uh registry um and uh we certainly would like to get uh interest support commentary and so forth from others"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "and uh and to the extent that we that people are interested would be more than happy uh to have co-authors and then at the appropriate time have an ietf appointed set of experts to oversee additions that's the pitch questions comments so we'll look at the queue for questions and first one that's up is james james go ahead what the problem that's being solved with this we have uh data elements defined in epp in art app and data escrow and the new reporting draft has the capability of registering data elements as well so uh is there an intent to try to normalize all these into one terminology or something that uh that needs to be enforced i really don't get what problem is being solved i'm sorry thank you yeah so um and it's it's not an enforcement uh effort at all but uh it's exactly what you said that there are these lists in different places and if one tries to ask so uh what's the complete list or are they the same and so forth there's no unified place to look so this is an attempt at at offering a place for common documentation of these with the idea that uh at least at the outset it would have uh essentially the union uh of the of what's in each of those it's not clear that the lists that you referred to our dap and and uh the others all have exactly the same things in them um and so this then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "is sort of the beginning of a pathway that would provide a common list it's not intended to provide pressure to change any of those but as changes are needed or as additions are needed or as new applications uh come along it provides a vocabulary and building block for those hey james cummings most complete uh roc that has uh the data elements is in the data escrow the dnr d uh rc uh so if that was when i look at this draft this is a a small subset of the data elements that are used uh in the dns registry so if you want to go to a place to start from i would go there thank you and and and i i paid particular attention to your phrase small subset um that certainly gets my attention how big is the is the full set the dnrd graph it's uh it's got a lot of data elements um i would suggest that you review it um the dnrd draft supports multiple formats but you can normalize those down to a single set of data elements yep one quick comment that um there's only in this there's only one uh in the case that you have multiple contact information in particular so that you might have uh you know an admin contact and a registrant and so forth that would cause a duplication of types of fields like name and and address and so forth this is just a definition of those and then out of a particular application you might have multiple uses of those in um in a protocol that may account and does in what we're doing uh that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "might account for a a big difference in the count of the number of things that you're looking at right well just take a look at it and you may get some value out of it sure thank you much appreciated okay next up recap so yeah go ahead um sorry it makes me allow preferences every time i do this um so a couple quick things i think thing one when i when i first looked at this i was kind of struck by i think that there's some overlap between this and rfc 8499 thoughts about that and then the second part of the and so like it's i guess broadly i'm i'm i'm kind of in the camp of where gould was that i don't see what problem this is supposed to be solving and to that end i think there's some overlap with rfc 8499 which is a dns terminology rfc that i'm i'm sure that that folks within earshot now that's this is a learned group and then the second thing is that that there was another a comment earlier in the discussion about um the that some of these things are mentioned in epp specifications some of these terms are mentioned in rdap specifications and i would offer that that there they can mean different things in different contexts that the the term of what these these different things mean one is what uses during the registration process and then rdap is what's used during the rdds in the display process and so they can mean different things so the fact that they would have different definitions is not necessarily a bug but a feature and so i think that in in this case the the notion of of unif trying to get a unified definition around those could be a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "a false goal and then i i would i'm also concerned since these terms are frequently used in contracts i would be worried about memorialize these things in itf documents because contracts sometimes refer to rfcs and give them status in a way that that can have unintended consequences so that's again these are all things that are under the macro comment of i'm not really sure what problem we're trying to solve here with this thank you okay next in queue gustavo can you hear me now yeah final words so my question is if we find discrepancies between let's say the way that the admin contact is defined in in rdap and data escrow or whatever what is the intention in this new draft to try to came up with one single definition or are you just trying to capture in rdap is defined as this in epps defined as this in whatever rsc or document is defined this other way so what is the idea to have one standard definition on or just to mention all the potential definition that we can find in all these different documents so let me let me suggest a a third possibility a third literally i i don't think the purpose of this is to force uh anything um nor is it this is the right place to try to document each of the variations however where there are uh the same idea than the ideas that should be represented in or named in the same way and where there are different ideas then perhaps the best thing to do is to give them a different name or have a way of differentiating them so at the end of the day to avoid confusion about things that use the same names but mean different things but the the delicate point and it's it's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "it's an important then um perhaps somewhat subtle point is that this should be a minimal uh specification rather than a maximal one this is one that should as i say serve as a building block and any uh mapping of these two particular applications or how it's used in our dap in one way and a registration process in another way that belongs in those applications and in the documents related to those but uh but to the extent that people do mean the same thing it's good to have a reference to build on okay and and sorry though because you were typing quite loud um i will put myself in the queue as well because so i have a question to uh uh steve so what do you do when when you encounter a conflict so when you have two definitions in two different places that's why um uh we need a set of uh appropriate experts to decide what the what should be in the in the doctor in the registry and um and what to do about those um if there are conflicts like that it's probably one of the um more useful aspects of this exercise is that it brings those to the surface so that it doesn't cause confusion for people later and you know multiple ways to resolve that conflict give different names to them or you know agree that one means what you want and the other doesn't or whatever i'm not i don't have a fixed position about this it's just that in terms of regularizing things and having a base to work from forcing those kinds of questions to the surface is exactly the kind of thing that happens if you have a place for these things to be uh uh brought and dealt with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "okay i will put myself out of the queue now because of time and i will give the floor to mark and then after that i will have some closing comments go ahead mark yes just wanted to say that you know i have another act and we actually helped the space industry and we actually run registries of terms and abbreviations using space space industry and they actually had you know multiple definitions and for the same keywords and we managed that and by having that registry there they were they started a few years ago to you know clean this up so at the end it was very useful for them um and it's actually going to be an iso standard soon but so you know there's a good uh advantages of having a centralized registries evan when there are um you know multiple definitions of stuff just uh you know for your information if that helps in the discussion okay thank you very much marsh very much mark um then looking at the time we really need to close because we are three minutes over time um final comment from me more essay chair to you um steve the one thing i do want to mention is that you know we are all for standardizing and our charter is actually explicitly um supporting that however for the epp and rdap protocols we we do have a some sentences in there that every document that we produce should be as widely applicable as possible meaning that it is you know it's about registries in general and not only dns registries in your list of examples for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "example i didn't see any autonomous system numbers or route objects or enum registrations in there which are you know when you want to have epp and rnap to be as as as broad as possible possible uh registration protocol and and uh data access protocol um it shouldn't only be about dns elements and i would advise you know if you want this to succeed to seek support from other ones who are using epp and rdap to find the missing element like james already said as well what you have now is a subset and i'm very curious how we get the whole set for this to succeed that's a very helpful comment i'll take that as a as a friendly amendment uh certainly no objection whatsoever to having the same idea expanded to cover uh data elements that are needed in in other areas particularly in the routing and addressing communities and so forth so that would be fine no problem whatsoever okay mark if you have a small question you can still ask it but i think we will be cut off otherwise and he left this comment okay then thank you very much steve i think we will continue the discussion on the mailing list and um we will see a call for adoption there and then we will at the end of course have a vote about it but i think there can be some some more discussion on the mailing list to see if it um if it's if it's if people find this worthwhile to do in our in our working group thank you very much appreciate the time"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "thank you steve and with that um like i said we are five minutes over time and if there are no more any other business which was the last item on our agenda does anybody have any other business no then i would say meeting adjourned and see you all next time i hope it will be live somewhere and otherwise we'll talk on the mailing list bye bye everybody thanks you"
  }
]
