[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "yes ma\u0027am I think we\u0027re out my banana flipper a laptop my keys handy not working okay well you made this yourself thank you for sharing good afternoon groan this is to grow session of ITF 106 and Singapore if you\u0027re not supposed to be in Singapore look for help I very very much appreciate that all of you have been pulling through the entire week and are sitting here at the last session slot of ITF I think we can all agree that in the random pick we have drawn the far side of the spectrum compared to the last meeting which was on a Tuesday but I would suggest let\u0027s let\u0027s go through our materials and participate in the grow working group session this is the note well you may have seen it a few times before as part of the note well please make sure that you write your name on the blue sheets name and affiliation and when we think we have captured everybody please return the blue sheets to us these are resources relevant to the working group our agendas online the materials for the agenda we have a mailing list a jabber room and this brings me to the point of looking for a volunteer to the jabber scribe so anybody in the room able to connect to the meet echo website and monitor may the meet echo jabber room Gordon thank you for your thank you for this we also need a Staker would anybody want to take two minutes for this session all right we\u0027re appointing Jarrett mouths as the minister taker of this session Thank You Jarrett okay blue sheets are being filled in minutes taker assigned to prescribe a science any agenda meshing are people comfortable with the agenda as presenters okay for those of you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:18",
    "text": "presenting this is the mic it goes near your face if you do this please hold the mic in your hand it will not bite you speak into the mic stand onto the seven parallel or sorry seven perpendicular lines five of which are transparent so that me Tico can see you that\u0027s it what okay we have some existing drafts here\u0027s the status for them you can look at the tools page to delve deeper if you prefer the two question marks for adopt is I think we forgot to send that to the IHG we have a couple of things that are that are iesg to send to the iesg we just forgot to do that emails from the authors are always helpful in this regard you want to talk about the Charter if you\u0027re monitoring the mailing lists we are undertaking an effort to rechart through the working group to bring it up to date with the modern world the last three chartering efforts stems from I think at least 15 years ago so it would be good to to assess whether what grow is doing in practice still aligns with the Charter and align the charter with reality the input mechanism to this discussion is higher the mailing list we will not be taking these decisions in this meeting but yeah check out the mailing list reads the proposed charter and reflects your thoughts on that for those of you who don\u0027t know what a Charter is a charter defines the purpose of the working group that purpose is then expressed in goals which brings it slightly closer to tangible action items and then in terms of action items those are called milestones so we go from the most abstract the Charter to goals - milestones which are actionable things on which we can measure our performance now it is very it\u0027s a cultural aspect of ITF - wildly deviate from the milestones that\u0027s okay we don\u0027t need to make it an exhaustive list but it is good for newcomers to have an understanding of what this working group does what the direction of the work of the working group is and what we consider important to work on in the future so that covers - charlie existing drafts "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "in the IDR session we brought up that maximum prefix limits No longer belongs and grow so we can strike through deaths we have published some RF drafts s RFC\u0027s congratulations to the working group and the offers for accomplishing that work and I will not venture into older nitty-gritty details of the workflow so let\u0027s go to presentations Camillo your name is up first so you will be first market there ok so hello this is an update on BMP pod marking so just as an overview this drug basically tries to convey the pod status of a path in BMP but status meaning whether the pot is install uninstall best path multi-party C\u0026P I know that your imagination fly if this is the mechanisms of the TLB draft that currently in our growth draft that powder will explain later and well what status is something that we don\u0027t have right now and BMP scan it can actually be obtained let\u0027s say implicitly from the review source or I guess doing some comparison between ribs that\u0027s complicated that might change depending on the implementation that I think is nice to have an explicit mechanisms of high of marking this this information now we also have a recent field right now it\u0027s a free-form string we\u0027ll discuss that in a second or what how that can change the idea of the recent field is this is to say why there\u0027s a certain pad status for a path and well I mean we saw it as a way of troubleshooting maybe else for a specific use case Oh what let\u0027s see this version basically has editorial changes but we are thinking of making a that\u0027s a more drastic change in the next one here are some of the changes we might we we are thinking about first of all Jeff has very clear that probably free from string is bit complicated we had this field as a free form string because we did not want to parametrize reasons so but status is actually complex to parameterize so finding a finite set of states now a free form and now are reasons that sounds very daunting so but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:24",
    "text": "well if this is very complex and I don\u0027t know what the spirits of the group is with the BGP shut down feature so we might need to move this to something else we\u0027ll thinking about it how to do it second is the pad status length so right now we the but status is a bit filled so you can basically mark different pad status which allows you for having different levels of granularity but right now it\u0027s just two bytes we might maybe this becomes very successful and do not laugh and and so maybe in the future we have many pad status so maybe we want to protect the mechanism having the pad status being a variable field we would also think about it now I think we should remove or we we have been discussing that the definition of the actual pad status is something that should not fall into this draft is it\u0027s quite complex for instance multipath you go and try to look for a document explaining that is not easy maybe that\u0027s not exist maybe some draft here or there but it\u0027s not clear stated so we might not have pad status defined in the draft but hopefully somewhere else either other draft or I don\u0027t know yeah now or god something so so yeah so we might have something some passwords as examples but we do not plan to define pad status in the draft and finally we might add some notes on the optional nature of this feature so the feature itself is is optional right you don\u0027t have to add it if you don\u0027t want that\u0027s the idea also the recent field so if the recent field at the the nature right now the field is that you to our it if you don\u0027t support her if you don\u0027t want to but it may also fall into the pot status so it might happen that we define many pots that was very granular and an implementation don\u0027t only super cell set of them and it may be feasible that we somehow either of line or some other way we that\u0027s fine and and that\u0027s okay I mean maybe you don\u0027t support that level of granularity and just a subset of the pad status that\u0027s it I have nothing else to say if you have any comments or anything else either here or in the Middle East right shake thank you next up more than three three clowns are partners colleagues thank you so I\u0027m Paula chant affirm entity and I have four drafts to present so first is the LA crib extension of BMP it\u0027s something relatively old like starting 2017 we had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:28",
    "text": "visibility in la crÃªpe you know for for BMP and you know since the last meeting there as being essentially no changes to the draft we may have only captured something during the BMP accattone on Sunday I hope Thomas will have the time at the end to comment more on that it\u0027s more recommendation you know small gaps maybe it\u0027s worth adding a few words there maybe not so I will not comment more and maybe it\u0027s better Thomas speaks at yep any questions then we have the draft about essentially adding TLV support to peer down and route monitoring messages the problem statement is very you know very simple like we have a table with four like and one of the legs is not equal to the others and so we want to make all the legs equal right and so the idea is simply to add that optional canvas to route monitoring to peel down and we bump the version of the protocol just for backward compatibility right and since last meeting the draft got adopted by the working group thank you very much there have been only some minor editorial changes and if you remember my presentation in Montreal we did leave kind of on purpose under specified that that peered down because appear down its is own beast right so it\u0027s even more uneven surface than the other messages and so that scope that got scoped a little bit better like you can see the text over there essentially you have code one entry there is a BGP notification and then after the notification you can do the TLD essentially like you do for the route monitoring for the code two there is a mandatory to field to byte field for to give additional information and after that you can put the TLV data and for the other I mean there is no extra data so just after the message you can put the tlps and this is it for this draft next steps really I think it\u0027s extremely simple there is no open questions if there is no objections I would just recommend let\u0027s wrap up over up this up and last call it and questions objections should I follow up so looking at the implementers in the room are we good to go No so so Jeff as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:44",
    "text": "sure you can make me stand up and talk I think there\u0027s a desire to try to make this done no soon the work is no fairly reasonable fairly straightforward in the grand scheme of things and I think what you\u0027re going to find is this work is the plug-in architecture for a lot of the other stuff you\u0027re wanting to trying to do for the rest of the group if you try to finish this now before the other work sort of cascades into it you get to do it again we shall deliberates on what the next step is sure but your request is no sense thank you thank you then I have and something new compared to the other you know ITF 105 which is the support for enterprises specific tlvs right so in the other one in the other draft we are defining the tlvs and here we are defining a mechanism to have you know enterprise specific not a younger governed you know pelvis so even before the program you know I already said the problem statement so I can go ahead essentially so that\u0027s that\u0027s the thing like you know you may have some enterprises specific stuff that you want to carry and some vendor to and other don\u0027t there is a you know a pre standardization phase and so we essentially want to avoid squatting right I have already noticed squatting from at least one implementer I saw a message type 100 so let\u0027s say let I would just say like it\u0027s a a nice way for work it is totally not a new work like it will see at the end that what I am proposing here is simply you know borrowed by IP fix and you know landing that on BMP and the other thing is that why we are not merging this with the other draft is because the other draft is scoped to only two messages right so there was a few logics over there the other draft is and you know applies only to do two messages and this applies to all of them and potentially since its kind of backwards compatible what we are doing here since there is no tlvs defined that used the first bit we can even apply that to BMP version 3 if you want right so there are there were a couple of things that in induced us to not merge the two works so for who is not familiar a pang it\u0027s pretty private enterprise number and it is assigned by a younger or actually you go request to a young and the young a gives you one and you know the goal I have already said it and things like that so the TLV "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:44",
    "text": "governed by a Jana it\u0027s a super simple like you know it\u0027s a TLV like we know hit and you see the first bit it\u0027s that the it\u0027s the EBIT right so it\u0027s set to zero if it\u0027s a younger governed and it\u0027s that one if it is enterprise specific and if it is interpreted specific essentially in the first four byte because the pang is four byte long the first four byte of the value is the enterprise number and then followed by that there is the value to be honest with you there is no many open questions as I was saying I mean I\u0027m just we have just borrowed something existing and working and we landed it over here I go to comments like oh if you do this mechanism then you want to do it elsewhere in BMP message types that you want to recommend it for subtypes and whatever so questions and maybe option John Scudder we have seen at least one proposal of this kind in IDR also and I think it\u0027s fine it\u0027s it\u0027s you know technically a good solution to the problem the pushback that I\u0027ve heard in that context basically amounts to yeah but but when I when I move my you know you\u0027re you\u0027re sort of proposing it as this is a playground that I can experiment in and then once my thing is standardized then I have to go and actually change my my packet format you know because you had two different headers there and which leads me I mean I guess we have to try it to find out how it actually plays out in the Wild West right but you know there\u0027s probably some aphorism like nobody ever ever got rich or I can\u0027t put it together now but might you know under estimating the laziness of software developers yeah which I I don\u0027t think it\u0027s guaranteed that that providing this nice structure will get rid of squatting but I guess we might as well try yeah thank you thank you and you know just as a comment on the laziness and whatever I totally agree with you I mean we already know what happened with IP fix so you write on the draft that this isn\u0027t transitioning mechanism very nice and then you know code points for being enterprise specific forever right so actually I remember the the other half of it it\u0027s you can be lazy in two directions right one is that you can define a code point under your enterprise space and then be too lazy to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:46",
    "text": "ever update into the Ayana assigned space at which point you just you know if your thing becomes popular everybody else has to go and start putting your enterprise numbers into their codebase or you know and maybe you end up putting it into an RFC also or the flip side also exists which is you say well I don\u0027t want to bother with that enterprise space transition so I\u0027m just gonna squat in a code point anyway and and I sort of the an end state of that argument is you know you had I think you know two bytes of Vienna assigned space plus four bytes of enterprise assign space or four four bytes of enterprise number yeah and yeah yes so so so what you\u0027ve got there is you know if you catenate that you\u0027ve just got a six byte number so you could also just be like yeah here\u0027s your you know six byte first-come-first-served registry and everybody can you know it\u0027s so big that you\u0027ll never run out of numbers so just everybody go crazy that\u0027s that\u0027s another way of looking at it Jeff has I think John\u0027s referring to his work that I did this was draft ia TF draft has BGP extended experimental the the key properties in there were that it did actually use the private enterprise numbers this way to give people their own playground the other thing that was specifically in there which some people didn\u0027t like some people no thought was a good idea is when people pick a magic number within their own enterprise space because enterprise space is just the anchor for your own play space you still have to have no an internal registry which you have to expose the outside world that\u0027s one of the headaches but people very seldom get a feature right the very first time so if you assign a feature ID 100 and then change how it behaves do you simply ship new code under 100 and break everybody or do you know Revit or choose a new code point and this sort of devolves back to the talks I\u0027ve given in a couple of different working groups on managing code points it\u0027s not hard but if you don\u0027t do it rigorously you cause problems second minor point the majority of my comments on the BMP stuff is going to I think devolve down to a few very simple core points I can take them to the list again have been the discussions line with some of the other authors but if there\u0027s five minutes at the end the agenda but the chairs entertain a possibility of me talking to the group for five minutes I think what Chris meant to say yes job Snyder\u0027s entity speaking us working group participants the purpose of this organization is to facilitate standardization of specifications so that we have interoperability I want a bunch of Scrabble points with that sentence what I worried a little bit about is that if we facilitate the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:49",
    "text": "creation of tlvs and sticking pens and after that it\u0027s it\u0027s up to you that we do not meet that objective of standardizing specifications for the purpose of inter ministry of domain interactions so the conflicts of pen to me is that if within your organization with your applications you need to do a thingy that is appropriate but if we have vendors using pen to push their products I would much more like to try and bring and keep the group together so that we have one uniform understanding of what BMP is but I also recognize that squatting is a very undesirable behavior and one observation is that first-come first-serve and a large number space could be very effective if you lower the barrier to get a number that will encourage people to just take the number the enterprise number it\u0027s it\u0027s not a vendor extension number two - it\u0027s a very it\u0027s within one single administrative domain and the point I essentially have replied to your point but also to just point so essentially the the reason this kind of makes sense to me like I understand lowering the bar and everything is that you know in the end of this is a game P is not something a routing protocol is not something that it should be understood by let\u0027s say two organizations right so it\u0027s you are monitoring something and maybe you want to expose some metadata and that metadata applies to one vendor but not the other so in a way doing a younger government should be realistic right so if I want to expose some metadata for something that I do have but another vendor doesn\u0027t have then it is not realistic to standardize it and this kind of mechanism allows to you know not squat so still the vendors to do their own stuff but without squat in the the public the public space right so I mean there are things that in my opinion not realistic to standardize I don\u0027t know I want to you know I don\u0027t want to give examples but there are things that cannot clearly be standardized and this is a mechanism that can help their shared much Akamai so I think job I think one of the points here is that sometimes when we\u0027re implementing things you know and and Akamai we have a number of our own implementations that pass data around that\u0027s important you know you know we kind of need to have a standardized place to put these types of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:49",
    "text": "things even if it\u0027s not part of the official IETF standard is that sometimes there\u0027s a need for additional namespace I think that\u0027s what we\u0027ve seen with a lot of the other languages like JSON or whatever where you can actually add additional metadata easily and such so I you know I I understand the sentiment of yeah we\u0027re standards body and it kind of is a little bit different there but yeah I can talk to you afterwards about it very short comments from my site difference what you such us know made me think of what we do with MAC addresses where we flip the administrative bits and maybe one bits is sufficient for this purpose that you describe who touched upon I don\u0027t want to go into discussion right now maybe at the next meeting but Jarrod\u0027s remark and point her to actually make metadata and schema information explicitly managed I think could change the outlook of what we are doing here the TLV stuff always means only the guy who defines for code-point knows what is going to be in the data structure and the presentation layer and kind of it would behoove IETF to actually use something were at least the presentation layer is something that is taking of a care of automatically okay thank you I had a fourth draft about compressed growth monitoring messages please slice her online I\u0027m sorry I can presenting hi so I published this draft just recently it came from discussion with Paulo actually about four BMP collectors defining a mechanism to store BMP messages and record them as a archive format so I snuck this together as an initial idea which which was to use MRT which is explicitly designed for that purpose it\u0027s for storing routing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:50",
    "text": "protocol transactions as it refers to it and well you know it\u0027s it\u0027s well supported it\u0027s well known for storing bgp data and especially in things like route views and rays and it supports tight code so there was the option of creating a new type code to store BMP messages in MRT so that they can be archived the initial attempt was to just define width message inside a header that says where it came from and who sent from and to and then just put the message in there now that\u0027s sort of an opening point for discussion because the the main issue with it is that the way MRT files are usually done they get split by time intervals maybe they\u0027re split every five minutes and the messages are always standalone they need to be parsed independently of you know the previous file and such which means that the information about the encoding of the bgp update which is usually based on capabilities that were negotiated at the beginning of the session end up needing to be encoded into the MRT format to so that the parser knows how to read it examples of this being yeah samples being s for an ad path which alter the wiring coding now that pain of leads to the questions that I had which was where the responsibility for ensuring that lies there\u0027s options of the BMP sender communicating enough information to represent that one of the this actually led onto the the TLV draft that Paulo has which was adding support for the to add plv encode encodings to represent these different income sorry adding theories to represent all the different encoding types but they\u0027re still optional whether or not they should be mandatory so that the messages can always be parsed whether this draft should just be specified for BMP v4 and ignore they not use it for other versions of BMP then the receiver can just record the incoming message or should the monitoring station be the one that\u0027s writing the message be responsible for providing the information on how to read this message at a later date this is an example of what currently happens for the BGP type and MRT where it basically has a list of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:50",
    "text": "permutations that get added to every time the wiring coding changes with a capability which has happened a couple of times so far there\u0027s still a few more permutations but it\u0027s not the nicest and yeah the MRT format has subtypes we could use the same mechanism as the BGP type to also encode the permutations into the subtypes or ignore that and define some extra header fields to represent the different encodings there\u0027s then a - if the mrt header tells you to decode it one way but there\u0027s actually a TLV in the BMP message that says to decode it in a different way what happens if they don\u0027t match so this was just we kind of starting the the thoughts of how to go around I had to go about solving this so that the result is that you can store BMP messages in a way that they can be replayed at a later date and know how to encode what was on the wire at the time yeah that\u0027s basically it does anybody have thoughts on this you know the usual list of questions hi Colin hi whether you\u0027re speaking what you are talking about is essentially stuff in the presentation layer rim kind of I\u0027m surprised my previous remark on doing something on the presentation layer might actually benefit here no idea how complex it is to transition to something that is more future-proof jeff has this is worth doing sorry Jeff it\u0027s your comments on rÃ¼diger folks comments or on this presentation thank you okay well I\u0027ll follow up on the list then thank you thank you Carlo next up you know hi this is your uncle from Hawaii so I have three drafts to discuss with you today the first one is BGP route trace using BMP okay so yet this on the 0-3 draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:52",
    "text": "version we have Thomas from Swiss come onboard and he has helped prepare this version with a lot of good suggestions and we can take a look so here\u0027s the changes that we make to the second version the first big change is that we have tried to restructure the whole format previously you know the information regarding prefixes and policies and the attributes there kind of you know mixed together so this time we try to put things where they all belong together and so that\u0027s why we come up with a policy TLV and where we put all the sins that related to the policy together okay and then we have done some renaming so the first one is that we change the previous hop to the root origin and the second is we changed the vrf table name TLV to vrf table TLV that\u0027s because we add infilled to this TLV which allows you to put the a prf table ID so so you have both the name and the ID name better for visualization and the ID is can be used for you know precise mapping or searching stuff and we also we\u0027ve made this tell via also optional and then we renamed the optionals 2008 use 20 of e and we add an example how we can use this DOB and we also redefined the policy classifications okay so let me walk you through these two Yogi\u0027s so the message looks like this still we have the prefix information and any comprises of different events then for each event we first have the you know timestamp information and some other information relates to the prefix and then we get the table TLV and policy TLV so above above this part which are you know the it\u0027s about the prefix you\u0027re monitoring and about the reason or yeah it\u0027s about the reason how this happens and so after that we have the attributes which are the results of actually the processing so and lastly we have this 20 LV to provide you you know some free form see okay can we Thanks so the first TLV is a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:54",
    "text": "vrf table yogi as I said we add an ID field and the second one is the policy T of e so you can see okay so this govt actually is has has made a I\u0027ve made a lot of changes to it so every simulated policy is put in here so first of all we\u0027ve add two black bits the first one is still the one will previously have which is the map the matching or mismatching bit it tells you if if match condition is met okay and then if there is a match of the policy the P bit will tell you the result of this match is permit or deny so if it\u0027s permit then we can use the a bit which is stands for if there\u0027s difference or not of the pre and post policy attributes in other words it tells you if there are further actions taken regarding the attributes if you have for example if you have like changed the next hop or not so if the tippet is unset then we shall not include the post policy attribute govt in the message because it with it\u0027ll be the same as a precursor okay so and attribute govt these are still the same and for the string govt the example is something that I have discussed with Thomas who thinks that if we don\u0027t want to use the policy format we define the in this draft we probably could use you know something that you want to carry to represent your policy so here for some we can use the ex pass of your policy your models here to represent represent the policy information or you can combine both the policy govt with the string govt okay so well up I would like to get some feedbacks from the working group here which basically are about the future direction of this draft so this I\u0027ve talked to different people and I do see you know different opinions or comments on the draft something you know this draft is a little bit over complicated over complicated and maybe it can target a very specific use case but some other think well it\u0027s good I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:56",
    "text": "can get all the information I need and maybe you can don\u0027t do something in the server side to to extract information you need to to insert into different apps so yeah and this is something that I want to you know ask the working group to help you know refine the drafts and well the second is use case and so I think the direction should be use case driven so shall we identify some use cases to help converge the draft yeah so that\u0027s for the first structure any comments who do fog again I\u0027m really surprised I did not intend and foresee this you know you are mentioning that this looks complicated or complex the [Music] actual content and intention and use certainly has complexity and are not completely sure whether I am really happy to go there but following up to my previous two remarks the complexity that comes in by the customized presentation layer certainly does not help a lot I very very much would like to see an approach like define your complex data structure in something like CD DL and if you want to have a dense binary encoding use just the C bore encoding and parsing mechanism and let\u0027s not talk about the presentation layer and for parsing any more and just lift up the discussion to more of a semantic level where we would be talking about symbolic fields and data structures and stuff like that kind of yes again like in my previous remark it is not completely clear whether this is the guinea pig to try to do this the first time but looking at the complexity of a presentation I actually think yes it would be a very interesting guinea pig thank you I actually didn\u0027t quite get your comments but I\u0027ll check later job Snyder\u0027s NZT one thing to respond to ridiger I think it is an interesting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:59",
    "text": "notion if we could get to a higher level of discussion to focus less on what does this bits on the wire mean and more to talk about symbolic meanings that is an admirable goal you suggest that Seaboard it is on my to-do list to go to the Seaboard working group because as far as I understand they don\u0027t have primitives such as an IP prefix and IP address and and other things and I think we would do ourselves at this surface if we put a byte string encoded in see more into our protocols so there may be some opportunity to improve Seaboard to make it more useful for our use cases it is extensible and that\u0027s why we need to go to that working group Jeff has and specifically responding that it\u0027s the exact same comment I made to you know partially adjust the CRISPR or on the mailing list there\u0027s a lot of binary encodings that are wonderful for Transport they give you know encapsulation that\u0027s great but the presentation layer on top of them is not rigorous enough for that our applications it\u0027s fine for us to specify things and Yang and have them actually rendered in a different format because it provides a hint to the underlying code how to do the rendering just cuz it\u0027s a byte string underneath if you tell it in the yang layer that\u0027s an IP address this means that code that actually is eating Seymour can Percy Moore notice that map\u0027s the underlying IP type and run the validator in that format for those of you that don\u0027t know what Sieber is it is the concise binary object representation think of it as Jason in binary encoding alright thanks so the second draft I\u0027m going to discuss is B me for rules ik detection so well I\u0027ve been trying to get a figure that best represents where this dropped stance it might be a little ugly to watch I walk you through it so so first of all this draft is a ruling detection method and it allows you to detect the leaks that happen in your local s not the upstream or downstream and it allows you to find the issues that happens at the u.s. SPR so maybe the egress here is misused by I want to express you know the propagation direction of the route for example in this figure the rotor for so if we have done some you know inbound or outbound policy is configured here and the route for example received from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:01",
    "text": "your provider is airily sent to another provider and then for such case we can use this draft to identify a leak okay and a few considerations or say I think benefits of this draft is that first of all it\u0027s a simple single IP deployable you don\u0027t need to like have corporations or depend dependencies of you know things from other ISPs and the second good thing is that you don\u0027t need to rely some database lookup and stuff like that and the search thing is that this kind of detection is prefix level and for this point I will have a question about I have a question for the working group in the later page and the circle thing is that it for my own sending list it doesn\u0027t you know overlap or a conflict with some of our existing Messrs and actually they can like be complimentary to each other as you know something I\u0027ve pictured in this figure okay so here are the changes we\u0027ve made in the four versions so we want to do is generally proposing a TLV that carries the appearing relation information and so in the latest version we name it as the re OT a TL v and we\u0027ve defined currently four types of pure relations okay so my question here is that so is use case that I\u0027ve put in the first page a a like a that happens a lot in the network and if yes is PMP a good way to do so and and also which is about the third benefit I have mentioned about using BMP is that it is prefixed by a prefix level detection so shall we do like just bgp session detection or prefix level because for if we want to do just bgp session level then we probably don\u0027t need any extensions because the open policy allows you to you know exchange tea of the rows and then it\u0027s carried in the peer up messages so you have the information but the best thing is that you cannot refuse and you know some complete complex cases "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "where some prefixes are don\u0027t obey to you know the session-based relations so if we want to do the prefix level or the thing is should we like specify where we can get such prefix level puring relations in this draft or just leave it outside yeah so I would like some suggestions Alexander\u0027s Yandex first of all thank you for covering some of my comments in the slides I need to admit that since you dropped at the moment is relies on BGP rules to get information about different relations there is no option to get rose per perfect because it\u0027s just and just uh no it doesn\u0027t work like this if you are not going to add another TLV you can end up in a situation when you are not suggesting and standard track but yours using you are suggesting something like a BCP how to use being p and it\u0027s not limited only for around leak detection yeah so so as I put ask a question should we do just recession yeah you know my position I would prefer to have a draft that will describe common use cases for beam P because it\u0027s a moment so there is no such work and with what we have we have has a signals that can be used we have we may end up with one two three signals and to get them in beam B before we apply an mitigation policy makes sense for me thanks shared much Akamai I think one of the biggest challenges in discussing this is that what actually defines a route leak is highly business specific it\u0027s not just about the ASPA role or about you know stuff because individual prefix in one case you may actually want to let out and you may not want to let other prefixes through and that business logic is something that is not that may be unique to the individual company and I think is something that\u0027s very hard for outsiders to infer what the actual intent is without you know intent based routing which is really what BGP is I\u0027ve sent you the NRL I this is my intent is that you please route this and I think that that that is the challenge and how do you identify these is that we we don\u0027t have a good understanding of how to communicate this to each other and there\u0027s a lot of granularity that can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:02",
    "text": "exist in it and we have a lot of tools that we\u0027re using to do this via BGP communities or something else to try and prevent these types of things but I think that that that\u0027s one of the biggest I think challenges with this type of a you know this type of a draft is BMP is an excellent protocol for monitoring stuff but what you\u0027re trying to monitor is the intent and the intent is that business logic and that\u0027s going to be unique it\u0027s going to be different for Akamai versus hand X versus Deutsche Telekom NTT GTT whoever else thanks for the comment so if no other comments let\u0027s move to the last one okay so the last draft is is about enhanced a loop detection for BGP routes so the changes to the previous version is that we have converged our proposals to two options for both inbound and outbound policy processing so the first option is that when you detect a route with a slope then you do some analyze based on some local database and the second option would be you you know use BMP extension to export the roots with a slopes so the first one does not need any you know changes to existing protocols and the second one we have proposed to use the mirroring message with a new within you code type for the information T of e to carry the routes with as loop detected so you can put the roots with look after the T of e type and yes in the last field so that\u0027s act and as I have discussed this case with Alex previously and he mentioned some news cases you know the the draft was previously you know intended for detecting hijack cases and Alex mention something that you can use also such detection to find some configure configuration errors of your neighbor a SS if I understand it right and I think ice you can like send the case to the Mellon list for further discussion or you might want to bring it up yeah Yandex so my message was that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:07",
    "text": "the way to state it in the draft so you are taking to account BGP updates where is your own at own system number in the highest path is not limited to the scope of what is called what is causing the drought hijacks or I will call it our root leaks because it may also happen when some of your prefixes are rejected by your upstream provider and they are sending you back these prefixes that I received from other side it\u0027s also who may highlight that there is some policy issue but so the scope is not limited to only hijacks our route leaks which be anomalous at the same time speaking about hijacks it\u0027s also seems very native to use BMP to detect for example prefixes that are not announced by your after the system number but uses your address space because they are also be rejected and so use being B as a general-purpose monitoring system for BGP anomalies and these can be added to your previous draft so I believe that being P has a lot of options and to be used and with the eating experience how it can be used what information can be it\u0027ll easily retrieved for this kind of monitoring and can be moved into informational draft that would be very interesting for the industry and also make a help for being PTO take order to take up to get a higher rate of deployment yeah Thank You Thomas curve Swisscom maybe just on another use case I just came up with is why not just not only restricted to AES pass you could also think about the side of origin for example mmm-hmm Thanks very good suggestion yeah so that\u0027s it thank you very much for your presentations now we get to the improvisation aspects of this session I would like to invite the hackers from the BMP hackathon for a 5-minute update their hackings I also saw that some people entered the room after this session started please make sure that you sign the blue sheets if you are in this room [Music] hi everybody Thomas Carr from Swisscom you might have noticed that on Saturday Sunday we\u0027d had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:09",
    "text": "hackathon and the goal from our group was basically to do some interoperability testing between collector and routers in terms of BNP local rip and adjacent city bout we could use an updated via shop be MPD sector and PM acct to to validate that basically with a simple set up here with three routers and identified some let\u0027s say interesting things which we put on the mailing list and would like to encourage you to give us some feedback one thing was about PNP local rip when a router has an a local originated out in its local group we noticed that the next hop attribute depending on the vendor might be different it\u0027s either like 127 0 0 1 or 0 0 0 RFC 4279 doesn\u0027t really specify what the next attribute should be when it\u0027s directly exposed from the router and it\u0027s propagated out of the router there versal definitions there so we would like to understand what are the different vendor implementations here and there might be some help to to update the BMP local rip draft for us some informational elements there another thing which we found was regarding Jason C rip out there seems to be different vendor implementations regarding the P hop message depending if post and pre policy is configured or not depending on the implementation we have one or more you have up messages with different pier headers so also please on the mailing list feedback house if you think that either both is acceptable or we should clearly define whatever you shoot in this case just get one pier up messages or if multiple PL of messages is decide desired result well we will go on and in the next hackathon 107 we can continue to to validate some future drafts regarding path marking our policy attribute racing and annuity Elvis and that was the group thanks a lot thank you there is a cool reports on a nice photo [Music] pehle you said you had one we cut you off you want to come do that and then we\u0027ll hear from Jeff yeah we have I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:11",
    "text": "think we thought we had only an hour we have an hour and a half so we have another twenty minutes or so right and so this is the fourth draft that I wanted to present it\u0027s an effort that we are doing together with the McCool from juniper it\u0027s about compressing route monitoring messages so it is believed that let\u0027s a BMP may generate a lot of data especially without being a tribal law creep pre and post policies the LDS and all of that and then essentially the proposal I would say is quite simple quite intuitive it\u0027s just like you flag compression information in the init message using the TLB stir you have a new message type because of course this is not compatible with existing route monitoring messages and essentially apply this draft that is a tidy are about compressed BGP updates but essentially implement that to BMP so that was it I\u0027m just looking forward to feedback is it a good work is it not a good work is it worth pursuing I see maybe a yes thank you the group may need some time to read and digest the draft we have two comments at the mic John Scudder so I hadn\u0027t heard of this work prior to the beginning of this meeting so I quickly went and looked at the draft it\u0027s admirably short I had read the Tonys draft in IDR previously and I liked that work so sort of by extension I like this work to the the one warning is that just sort of as you know kind of a process thing Tony\u0027s draft is still an individual submission so if you move ahead we\u0027ll probably need to figure out you know how to make sure that your your references are all in order but we can take care of that you should know in the future thank you agnostic Adonis Equinix speaking as a working group member and a happy user of compressed BMP yes this is needed the solves this addresses a real problem in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:12",
    "text": "the field and not necessary the lack of capacity on the bits on the pipe but on the processing side of received EMP messages a couple of commands what you are proposing is to compress one single message and the results if you would compress a vector with the same dictionary would be noticeably better so maybe your structure needs to have definition for a stream or a set of BMP messages to be compressed now the other thing about using the same mechanism as to compress the BGP as as the Tonys Drive says the compress to comments to that one is it proposes to remove the marker while it works very well for bgp save 16 doctors doing that for BMP that would mean that it needs to cut out 16 doctors out of the middle and then you need to decision deal with linearize the message and probably the cost of doing that will be bigger than the savings the other thing is about when you restart the compressor an important use for for BMP is storing and replaying that data later that means if you start a compressor at the start of a session you need to replace everything from a beginning having a mechanism stating that you start to compress either add some some amount of messages at some amount of seconds or something like that seems to be usable functionality to have I see first of all thank you for your comments we have definitely to look how to up is this better like you were essentially saying not only compressing but also batching things together so we have just to study how to do that and propose something to it to your other point the one to restart a compressor so in the draft what we say is essentially that there is like you know around her producing an you know BMP data and then the collector as the the compressor so in a way it\u0027s not stretched this is not stretching to beyond that like so you decompress it and then maybe you have I don\u0027t know what no so essentially you should not so should not save the compressed message should compress it but I understand that what you say is that you may want to save the actual raw message I understand that yeah we have to see also job Snider\u0027s entity the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:12",
    "text": "topic of compression has come up in idea and it has not yet progressed to be a working group item if it were to progress it would concern me being an operator often times when it really when it comes to internet routing it can be of paramount importance to very very quickly understand what the hell happens on the wire and what is propagating for the global routing system and if we were to compress BMP messages I would have significant concerns depending on how that compression is storm what the state of the dictionary is how the dictionaries are exchanged whether we can whether we would hamper our ability to very quickly react now BMP from my perspective and this is just my view it\u0027s not the critical path it is a telemetry or monitoring protocol and if monitoring breaks we our flying blinds which can be very unfortunate but are still flying in some direction so I would I\u0027m less hassle them to consider compression in BMP but I I will notice that compression in BGP is I think in context of internet routing a potential source for lots of problems thank you shared much how can i I actually haven\u0027t found the bandwidth used by BGP or BMP to actually be an issue in our environment so I\u0027d be interested in other operators who are having that as an issue to kind of share some data you know in private it doesn\u0027t need to be you know from the mic but I\u0027m kind of curious on this because my sentiment is somewhat similar to jobs in you know trying to do this I\u0027m very concerned about any delays in the messaging because we\u0027re trying to use the data for real-time event detection of you know potentially anomalous or malicious actors and I know compression you know compression isn\u0027t really that heavyweight no more than any any of the Kryptos or anything else but and any delay is something that\u0027s very concerning to me thank you awesome an operator using BMP I can just tell you that I totally share your comments like also for myself I\u0027ve not seen any bottleneck or anything like if it was for me as an operator I would say almost you know compression is not needed but I have to note that let\u0027s say the topic of the amount of data being exported by the routers is something that really came up like the first thing that came up in Chicago in 2017 with the LA crib and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:12",
    "text": "other about draft like it\u0027s more a concern I\u0027m understanding from the vendors from the exports of on the export inside and this is something that I have heard you know multiple from multiple sources so I would you know I am also as caress as you like if you know to get more information why this is a problem at the export inside and that\u0027s it Thank You Paulo thank you next up jeff has with an on-the-spot improvisation thanks for the time so I hadn\u0027t intended to give a presentation here but my commentary and for much all of these things that we\u0027re seeing for BMP is coming down to a lot of very common points so I\u0027ll make the statement here and then maybe depending exactly what the written group thinks I can summarize it down maybe in an internet draft or other wiki or something that so if I had to give a quick presentation and I try to keep this much less than five minutes it\u0027d be architectural implications of PDU formats and router implementations the big problem that we have here is that and you know somebody who\u0027s recently like in front of me online BMP does have use cases they have use cases beyond simple telemetry we have certain very large service provider networks that are using them to power their Sdn implementations so things that slow that down make such vendors rather cranky so there is strong need to be aware that these things are little more complicated than just making the PDUs easy the hackathons are very good for proving out can you actually decode the format\u0027s can you actually do something with things is the format well-structured but it doesn\u0027t necessarily help you answer the question about you know if I\u0027m writing a BMP implementation that integrates with an actual BGP implementation what\u0027s going on here and there\u0027s some extent that argues that not enough of the right people are actually sitting at the hackathons as well thankfully we have some people that can do both and we shouldn\u0027t see about getting a few more of them involved in that sounds as well but the core observations really come down to a very small number of items item number one this is basically BGP now we do know from a lot of experience that BGP scales based a number of PDUs that get exchanged now this is in terms of the protocol in terms of formatting things "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:13",
    "text": "and to some extent and receiver the receiver is being in many cases general purpose PC type applications means that we don\u0027t have anywhere near the same impact that a actual router would so that\u0027s less of a concern but it does mean that the formatting site is still a problem so what that means is that anything that degrades route packing as we would normally do in BGP can be a problem for the implementation and this ties in the second problem which is you know that the options that we\u0027re currently looking at for extending BMP are largely just tacking on this optional TLV to the bottom of a message what that means is that that optional TLV needs to apply to the entire contents and so the path attribute for a given a fee Safiye and some number of em larai inside that package if you\u0027re intending this information to apply to subsets of that NL RI you are doing a forced D packing of the message we can actually do something about this no we can actually change or format so that the tlvs no or such that you have path attribute s-- we have another ID and we have stuff with a despair to that owner is telemetry this allows us to do the job of allowing optional things to go in there without necessarily doing degrading the per packet case the other thing that we have as a general problem in the architecture is that BGP is ranked elementary for we have ribbon we have lower than we ever about low cribs with effectively an illusion of what the current routing table is and the ribbon about in many cases have strong correlation to people\u0027s internal data structures and this means that if you\u0027re looking to attach some sort of interesting state if you\u0027re lucky that state actually exists no solo group is an example many implementations I actually keep track on the runtime basis why did I not accept this prefix no this is one of the pieces of data people are looking at export if you have that data that\u0027s great but the minute you don\u0027t actually have some piece of data and it\u0027s interesting to you and it belongs the protocol you are forcing the implementation to do one of two general things either extend its internal data structures so that state is tracked that has a cost you know especially in terms of memory and if you\u0027re a real router you\u0027re running a potentially an older Hardware the addition of a single word of memory on a common data structure can knock you over some of your limits so you\u0027ll find from traditional router vendors a lot of hesitation to do things that end up being persistent state that gets attached around which leaves us pretty much for any of the optional mechanisms there needs to be some way to very quickly attach data to the information so ribbon is an example if I want to know what bit of policy was actually doing this can I Drive it from the policy engine itself well certainly running policy lets you get that information but you probably don\u0027t want to take the hit of actually writing the policy real time with this and keeping "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:15",
    "text": "around the state you know just long enough to shove it down VMP potentially could be a problem because who knows how long that states got linger based on back pressure we\u0027ve kept the conversation about why do we need compression is to some extent really not the fact that BMP is you know a socket it\u0027s just the TCP pipe just like every other thing on the planet and that if you can\u0027t keep up with the data stream you\u0027re creating back pressure on information that needs to be retained so that\u0027s an impact as well and if you can\u0027t drive even if you can derive this stuff you know that it needs be attached a very quick basis there\u0027s still the cost you need to do some level of nokey comparability from one data store you know in this case your ribs which are highly optimized to make your beach be fast note to some data store that may not be know very fast and what we\u0027re doing in each of these different presentations is providing some level of annotation and oh these objects that are running around bgp for efficiently and finding ways to effectively don\u0027t throw obstacles in front of them to make them slower so my recommendations know is that we know try to remember that the core use cases do need to be kept and enabled now this means that these things are optional features hopefully and stay optional because some of these things if they were not optional I would have to tell some of our larger customers don\u0027t use them they will degrade your Sdn use cases for things that are optional especially for telemetry type applications that\u0027s great you know let\u0027s look at changing the format a little bit so that the information hairy\u0027s better doesn\u0027t break gnome packing things and the last one is no really a presentation layer comment know if we\u0027re going to tangle these things up several the things that we\u0027re actually talking about involve putting some sort of string on there you know the fact that might be a ski or utf-8 this is partially irrelevant the thing that most of us who spend a lot of time doing performance measurements on our systems for things that need to be really streamlined we know that scanf or whatever your language of choice mechanism for parsing strings or integers is very expensive just simply turning a prefix IP prefix in ascii format into a simple four byte no value with one byte worth of prefix that gets expensive after a while and ideally you don\u0027t do that so what this means is be very careful about deciding that no especially noisy information that may be very repetitive now if you have a set of recent strings that the router is going to say that I don\u0027t like this don\u0027t send that recent string 10,000 times and make them parse it each time find a way no similar IP fix to exchange a dictionary but let\u0027s you say here\u0027s what the string table is and a sick number 100 in here for this entry from no no I make it nice and competant anyway that\u0027s my comments some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:16",
    "text": "of these things probably should be written down and I\u0027ve actually pondered doing them for a general purpose bgp context but some of these are very specific here thank you questions comments you mentioned dictionaries so would like a registry of dictionaries for Strings be a positive solution to that that\u0027s certainly one way to go know so one of the things that have popped up in some of the presentations is like reasons why we didn\u0027t accept a thing you know some of these things are common behaviors that you know we really should be standardizing anyway I think when this when flavor of this actually popped up an idea I think your Nan\u0027s Mitchell presentation my commentary was some of these things absolutely as a good value add deserve a registry of here common cases that we do things and that should be maintained somewhere but there\u0027s going to always be something that\u0027s proprietary you know so like I may know something that\u0027s been rejected by a policy and I want to actually add on a little bit of additional annotation based on my implementation you know if that\u0027s a repetitive string exchange the repetitive string is something you could just indirect entity I wanted to ask you one question if you remember like so this is on the packing part the first point that that you made so that maybe the packing is not optimal the way in which it is at the very very moment if you\u0027re remembering let\u0027s say last ITF in a Montreal I made kind of so we had the one draft from Hank Smith right originally and then essentially it was not too complex but let\u0027s say too long to to dispersive and and things like that and so essentially we broke it down in a few suction so one we are executing the TLV part maybe the easiest part is just but powerful and things like that power is pulling the sense that it can get some critical mass more use case it can a little bit unlock you know BMP right and then there was another part which we didn\u0027t tackle which is the restructuring of the message types I think you know we\u0027re all a little bit rotating around that maybe we want to restructure this route monitoring message and things like that so my question is do you also think sittings in this direction we need to restructure this route monitoring message and things like that would you like to be part of this effort shall we do it together and things like yeah I\u0027m always happy to contribute and I did tell you about a few minutes ago that you weren\u0027t done this was Perry White you mentioned that it would perhaps be good to have write some of these things down I would very much appreciate it if you did commit your faults to paper or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:16",
    "text": "keyboards and would share with the group because I think you are offering us foundational insights that can help us better develop protocols and it is much appreciated that you are willing to share that with us thank you all right I would like to entertain a motion to adjourn second it alright see you in some other city on this beautiful planet thank you for attending see you later one comment we are five minutes short of 90 minutes are we proofing we need 90 minutes for this working group we will definitely take that under consideration Thank You Paulo "
  }
]