[
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:38",
    "text": "all right good morning ah morning welcome this is the East working group we\u0027re off to start here is the first session here on Monday morning morning my name is Govinda Naidu I co-chair with Jim Shan why don\u0027t we get started as a reminder as an official meeting but note well applies there are a number of piece of easier play if you have any questions by all means ask us or event a new here as we do we have it we have this agenda here this is almost the same that was posted on the mailing list would anyone like to bash what we have here okay I take that as a no so before we dive into into kind of some of the specific presentations let\u0027s talk status update so a couple things have happened since we last got together in person there was quite a lot of robust activity at hackathon and we did a working group last call on this possession kind of drop and that\u0027s still in flight there is a request for an early registration for coop media type that that the chairs are still working on we also met virtually for an interrupt event and most importantly kind of congrats to the opportunity to RFC 8390 to publish so we\u0027re making kind of progress big picture wise we are largely on schedule because we\u0027ve been updating the milestones this is where this is kind of where we stand so closest up for us is getting the session to session draft done and some of the three more travel are there any reactions to what\u0027s happening in the milestones about what we should what we should change your calorie based on what\u0027s there now yeah honest you\u0027re staring at it very intense it\u0027s a small font all right in that case we\u0027ll move from our administrative kind of portion directly into some of the conversations so Mike kind of gear up [Music] do we still have that oh my gosh back off ah good morning Montreal I am Mike "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:41",
    "text": "Jones from Microsoft and I\u0027m here to talk about the proof of possession key representation for support with tokens so quick background that ITF ninety-nine a year ago we decided we could do this fast it\u0027s a simple spec that provides the Seaboard CWT equivalent of RFC 7800 which is the job proof of possession key representation as norman just noted we finished the CWT in the last few months which is great well note that like CWT the proof of possession key is needed for some of the other work happening here in ace and other places we did conduct the working group last call authors including Samuel were pretty diligent about responding to and addressing all the comments I will say that the one place where we didn\u0027t always do what was asked was when some of the comments requested deviations from the model and 7800 and so we had a lot of discussions about that and in the end kept things entirely parallel so this is my last slide I don\u0027t think I\u0027m going to take the 15 minutes I think where we are and this is for the chairs to decide is I think it\u0027s time for a shepherd review they do to the point a shepherd and take us to the next steps because I think this is fully baked and ready to go okay it\u0027s on hello hello hello Boston Brahmin um so I have a 30,000 foot comment that is not actionable but it\u0027s still a common [Music] so one of the the ideas of cozy was to use the work that was done by pussy as much as possible and then at some point we noticed a lot of reasons to have some deviation so that\u0027s why cozy is one of exact copy of osseous original and the main reason is that the domain of application we have a pussy is devices "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:41",
    "text": "so they have totally given a pocket beneath tape I have to make decisions based on the data recap so I think that the main difference between pacient forcier step in poultry we just have this if I were craving for a decision and family so now if its value cm is proof of possession and I think we still have this need I don\u0027t know healthy or fully resolved the you see pulpit is from the certificate work but maybe we want you have more more mainly down semantics for what we agree for senior citizen in space and therefore I think starting the recognition of secession essentially based on what is from our point of view Aradia legacy which is cause it\u0027s also an opportunity because sure great great points I should note that my slides do oversimplify the situation and saying that it remains exactly parallel there\u0027s a backstory here which many of you will remember from a year ago is that there were actually two different drafts that did essentially the same thing I wrote an individual draft and living and crew including I think yourself Kirsten as part of the wasp profile for Ace also did a treatment of proof of possession keys the interesting thing to me and in fact to me the confirmation is that we\u0027re already on the right track is what Ludvig did and what I did were essentially exactly the same including deleting the parts of 7,800 that weren\u0027t applicable in embedded use cases in particular 7,800 has a way of referencing keys via a URL as a jwk set "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:44",
    "text": "and both of us independently decided that\u0027s probably not applicable in the embedded space and both of us deleted it and so I think we already have pretty good confirmation that the parts that we kept are the parts that are going to be useful for embedded systems and indeed I think we\u0027re in good shape that way we did think about the application to mean and they\u0027ll just blindly can\u0027t be everything thank you honest one item where this topic of alignment with her mostly work came up with the use of later changed my mind because I didn\u0027t see a use case which in some sense not make sure that there\u0027s the alignment begin but of course those with the extensions that could be defined may be if it\u0027s a good use case for a CWD who that\u0027s what you could use is also fun in JSON based format but I just didn\u0027t have that use case also be easier to discuss and maybe Jim more Romanus Brigid suppose this here a debate that we\u0027ve had which I think we we definitely discussed it for for quite a while on the mailing list but there wasn\u0027t a clear conclusion as far as I can tell so let\u0027s see you made two points not respond to them in turn one was the multiple keys representation and both 7800 in our draft do you say how you could represent multiple pop keys by defining a new claim to hold the additional key it\u0027s the case that any application if there\u0027s multiple key is going to have to have identifiers or ways to distinguish what the keys are and so asking further to be a claim to represent the additional keys is not a burden on the application in fact it helps meet the application needs so I think we after discussing that decided we were in a good place with that now with respect to the comments that Jim raised about use of key ID to identify which prop key to use in fact honest you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:45",
    "text": "did write some text which we put into a new section on operational considerations which described that and in fact we then revised it with Jim described that if you\u0027re in a context that there\u0027s multiple keys and they\u0027re from distinct spaces you\u0027re going to need to keep the look of keys in those distinct spaces so that it can\u0027t be possible for you to be tricked into using a key that doesn\u0027t apply to the application to make that being said I believe particularly in a new vented world you\u0027re very likely to be in a 0 or 1 key situation and so while it\u0027s good to cover this in security considerations I think for most of our applications it doesn\u0027t even apply I cannot say that I felt that the whole issue of preference by key ID was adequately addressed in the document I think that there\u0027s a whole lot of issues that it hasn\u0027t they haven\u0027t been thought about there are problematic and need to be thought thought through and documents are clearer than what is in them yeah there may be a couple of other issues I think there\u0027s one other issue in my review that I do not get was correctly dealt with yet either but I can\u0027t wrap my head what it is so Jim is there an issue besides the potential for an attacker to trick you into using the wrong key if there\u0027s multiple keys from distinct spaces that you think we also need to describe or do you just want that issue described better I think that there I think the concept that you\u0027re going to end up with a single s controlling a single a s authorizing doing all the authorizations on an RS is probably not correct and I think that those a s is may need to cooperate which is not a case which is covered yeah that\u0027s way beyond even cl√°sico us yeah no this is far beyond Costigan is a very very very thin security model which we have which we need to expand in this in this world to some degree the issue is not one of tricking you to using the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:45",
    "text": "wrong key the issue is one of tricking you to give me permissions I shouldn\u0027t have so that\u0027s a very different statements of what the problem is okay maybe you and I and others that are interested can put that down on a napkin so that I can understand the flow that you\u0027re concerned about do we feel we have the time to expose that for the benefit of the whole room I look besides right by the way I try to do that on the mailing list at some point my understanding of what Jim thinks is the problem so I can try and do that very very quickly the problem he thinks is you get them is to issue you a token bind to key it\u0027s called a with the key identifier one and then you have an attacker using another AAS that gets a token bind to key identifier that\u0027s also one but this attacker is all using a key B and then me the the clients using my token bound to key a submits that token to resource server and the resource server stores that and stored the key identifier one link to that token or rather the key the true position of that token and then comes the attacker having another token lead to the key identifier one and somehow and that\u0027s the point where I don\u0027t follow Jim somehow it\u0027s tricked the resource server to accept that token and PB that is also identified by a key identifier wall and thus gains the access rights of the first tool that is the problem that I am stood from Tim\u0027s argument and I don\u0027t see this last step how this is supposed to happen how the attacker treats the resource server to accept a second key linked to the same key identifier of a key that there is a server already knows I don\u0027t think that\u0027s happening or if it\u0027s happening then you have a very very bad resource available right and the beauty of cryptography is if you\u0027re tricked into using the wrong key the wrong key will not validate the proof of possession because the signature doesn\u0027t match even if coincidentally key identifiers happen to be the same its underlying keys which validate the signature I agree with Jim that this is an issue we need to document and not 100 percent sure it needs to go into just this government indeed one of my questions was does the OAuth profile "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:45",
    "text": "document for Ace address gyms use case of having multiple cooperating authorization servers Jim is nodding yes you\u0027re looking puzzled like know this this is honest I think but look they said um this document the CWT popped open it\u0027s very limited in its functionality that\u0027s right it may be used in a in a non hall space context so it\u0027s really just about putting the key having a structure to put the key in there nothing else that\u0027s right and I think the described attack scenario I think this is something that should be documented in my opinion in the is oral argument I think the athletes better because they\u0027re you actually have an authorization server there you have the resource server in potentially multiple of them so I think it\u0027s just a question of also a document management that I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a so from what the looping explained um I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a concern because the keys don\u0027t stand on its own and they actually tied to the party issue in them but that\u0027s right but still we\u0027ve seen that even simpler are cases that implementation can make mistakes so I implement us can make mistakes so Stephanie voiced by two highlighters this is rush hours later I came up here to disagree with Holmes so because the collision and the key identifier has different consequences and different uses and agreed with the OAuth documents and document those there but there should be a warning in this document that says if you use this wherever you\u0027re using it talk about the consequences of a TN in America so Russ have you read the new section which Hannes wrote on operational considerations that does in fact describe the need in key spaces yes but the whole point is what if someone maliciously was purposely finally like that what are the concepts that\u0027s all you want to document in the using spec so tell I\u0027m here to be ok Jen are you coming back for more got it so I would like to react since the next step is for the Shepard review is what you\u0027re proposing so I\u0027m gonna be the shepherd so on Thursday I drop something on the mailing list where I try to deconflict all the comments that came in on - - it\u0027s going at everything that was in - kind of three and line him up and there were a lot of comments so I may be off by kind of one or two but - uh spend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:46",
    "text": "them staring out of here is there were things in three categories which were I think there were things raised in the working group last call that I could not see you manifested in changes in - oh three on the list I have enumerated those there were also discussions of changes that would be dropped in 203 then when I saw the text that looked like it actually addressed the comments but he did not make it into the text and then on the last one was this issue we\u0027ve been talking about you\u0027re kind of in a mic line so I think what would really help proceed the - every three to the next to the next stage of maturity is if you could walk through that list and say hey woman you missed you missed this this was actually kind of close and we get consensus growing news they brought up kind of the issue to say yes yes this address is kind of my issue so I think say you said you sent that to the list Thursday okay I\u0027ll look for that that was I think that may help us get around canoes issue is it closed is it not but if you yeah but it doesn\u0027t leave open - we do so I think there\u0027s some mechanical things to do with the vast majority of those but there is still discussion required on this what do we say are we adequately covered in the operational section and about the key onions right and my request would be given that we attempted to address it by adding specific text if people believe that additional things need to be said please provide text of what you think needs to be said so that it\u0027s actionable that\u0027s fair okay great thanks this it\u0027s not strongly aligned no it\u0027s weekly aligned okay okay so I will present the eesti of a co-op S draft which has been presented already some time I\u0027m very grateful for all the comments we got back from the working group it just really helped us feel you\u0027re helpful thank you very much so you\u0027re happy about all this this draft proposed a scope over DTLS where the original is tea used HTTP and TLS so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:47",
    "text": "I think it\u0027s clear this is meant for reduced resource devices there are two driving areas secure bootstrapping and having this disability of identities which are the two driving use cases behind this draft yes so we have a few major updates since the idea for Mata one the first two I will have some two additional slides to talk about them and the others I just mention them so there isn\u0027t the case where you may have delays so you asked for an forum for some khufu that the certificate is correct and then there may be problems and somebody barehand has to verify that things are okay so you may have delays not of a few milliseconds but of seconds minutes so that is the part we\u0027re going to handle on the other cards we have the multi-part payload I will also say a little bit more involved is slides and for which has been and the request for publications thank you very much which was nice we have improved the examples I mean improving the text or sometimes ambiguous and we have made that nicer and sometimes the payload was not completely correct so we handled that we have in section this parameter values we promised it and actually there have been some implementations they have actually looked at what kind of parameters to select and there are some recommendations about what to do there is a major the word proxy was wrongly used when going between HTTP and coop and the juice to be has to be versus trial which is recognized we have improved the text and that is so it looks much better now and it is more correct the server key generation last time there were some questions about it whoever needs this etc this I think are now handled in the text and also the the the way to handle server key generation has been written down so thank you for the comment there how much action has be taken so okay now this is a long delay handling to the left you will see what we did in the last draft and to the right you see we have in the current draft in the original draft when you do a post you cannot do an observe so what you do we have done imposed the server recognize that the test evade a few minutes and it returns a location and what you can do then do is in get vision observe and then wait till you get the notification back all nice for kadowaki but the problem was that when implementing it and doing the the use cases that we were looking at then it was noticed that the Registrar we want to have very small and the register if it goes from the coop to the HTTP has to remember all these things the observations which are going on etcetera which is a lot of state and we wanted to get rid of that state so there has been a new much simpler way to handle this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:49",
    "text": "and so in the current text what we do is we do the post and the server recognize look here this is going to take some time and it returns an error and tells you you wait so much time and then after some time the client he sends completely the same payload again to the server which may be ready then or it\u0027s not ready and then says look here error max-age and this goes on until finally the surface ready or the client gives up it is much simpler but the disadvantage is that you sent again the same payload again for to in the in the post any comments on this yeah okay fine thanks multi-part payload in the for example in one of the year actions to surfer key generation the return payload is composed of two parts which with different media types this was not possible in coma before thanks to the collaboration is Carsten and writing a new draft what we now have that you can have different payloads in the in a different movement different media types in the payloads and we do this by using a sieve or array where in the first two where do we have pairs the first one satis gives the content format number and then it gives the payload and then the next part in the Seabury content format to payload to belonging there etc and we have worked it out in the East II coop as example for example here we have a very small very have two content formats for t 2 and 0 and we have a fairly short payload just to show that they might look like we are happy we think this is fantastic I mean the guys are implementing and say this is also very nice and handy any comments no great so what are we going to do more to get final to finalize this draft so we have the early content format assignment has been requested it\u0027s going on very good thank you very much again we want to update the example palos because we know we have the implementation so I made some example payloads but I constructed them from the EST publications and they are not very correct I\u0027m afraid and we want to prepare an interrupt with Reese Nexus Cisco atom I hope and sound among hmm oh sorry ok I hope that this can be done in the coming three months that is her hope and then you get results pecs yeah okay thank you very much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:49",
    "text": "any feedback comments what what could you go back to the slide where you explained this error that we can send this error before signing you\u0027ll get this one yeah okay and I just block this error from the server and you still run into the same problem yeah so if if I divide my attacker and I don\u0027t want the client to know this that easy to confirm this post is a conformable mm-hm what\u0027s what I see here is that actually you may wait and you have the error max is correct and then after the error max you come back you get back your results but it may well be that the max max H is not correct you want to do the second time and if at the end the client says I give up because this takes too long say half a day it just gives up and that\u0027s the end of it was that the question it\u0027s the post that you send is it\u0027s a conformable post Vanessa on the mighty part our beloved wife why did you have to introduce this multi-part functionality Oh for the surfer key generated now I have to work by heart there are two parts I think the first you get and and you get an certificate request within certain content format and then you get an additional weapons in an other content format they are different they both come from the server so the client has one content format the he does the request and then comes back an information from the server which tells you about what is coming out in a content format and then tells you the result in another content form it was the clients and a certificate signing request and then it gets the certificate back that was the original sort of model that didn\u0027t require my teapot know but in the cervical generation there if you look it up there are two parts which unfortunately I do not know by heart anymore but which are very different content formats you are talking about the fact that you pass the certificate as well as the private key along and you need to forget this moment absolutely I wasn\u0027t in favor all to define any functionality that does service like heat generation and passes the keys no problems and avoids all the benefits of product but I guess you guys "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:50",
    "text": "okay security by design okay if if I understand you correctly as well you think that there is the additional overhead which is generated mr. Sabourin okay Oh there\u0027s no comments be back if you want to be full compatibility yes I\u0027m afraid soon we have not said that any of the parts which we do we are either mandatory or optional it\u0027s not in the text so we may think about it right so maybe I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s a possibility we\u0027ve done an error message if their client requests for something in feature like this one and the server then doesn\u0027t provide that functionality so in that sense it would still be interoperable it would just not work I think I think that would be good and I also I still think that the argument which sort of led to the introduction of that feature is also a little bit tedious because the argument was that IOT devices can\u0027t generate random numbers on which I would send a link to the list where I explained this on how to use hardware based Brennan I\u0027m a generation run on low-end IOT devices and they actually lots of those chips out there under do that yes but what I know is that you\u0027re not only going to handle new devices that are also all devices out there and they have to collaborate okay all right thank you next up Rick you\u0027re gonna talk about framework so well that that\u0027s about the right distance right I\u0027m not booming your ears out great so I\u0027m mostly going to talk about the framework but as the chairs had on their agenda this also relates to the two profiles that we have adopted the Detailers profile and those core profile less happened on those two profiles therefore I don\u0027t have it on the title slide so we did a number of updates since ITF 101 we\u0027re now at version 13 we were at version 10 and I did 101 the first one was we discovered a few seaboard data type errors when we did the impromptu interrupt a type 101 "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:51",
    "text": "Jim Olaf and me and we discovered that in the listings of different parameters and claims we had some of the seaboard data types wrong so we fixed that and there was a new boiler plate so that was pretty small update this one was a bit larger so first of all we had error handling kind of baked in in a section where it didn\u0027t really belong so we moved at an own section we had the possibility when you were identifying profiles to identify them with the long strings that are the descriptive names of them I removed that possibility because it didn\u0027t felt useful and I\u0027m now requiring that you use the abbreviation and you can still use the string identifiers in like descriptive text or or metadata or whatever then there was a comment by Jim that we might need to inform a resource server about which public key to use if it has several so I allowed the Aris conf which describes the public key of a reso server parameter to come into an introspection response so when the reserve server does an introspection on earth on an access token the authorization server can inform it which of its different public keys to use to authenticate to the client that\u0027s the idea of that one the next one is if you don\u0027t do enter spectrum you might still want to have you still might still have this scenario so I also allowed this clay list to be used as a claim in an access token so that when processing the access token the resource server can determine okay towards the client wielding this access token I need authentication key so that\u0027s the bullets two three and four then I had comments from Mike about labeled ranges that were different not the label actual numbers of different levels but the ranges and I aligned that so it\u0027s the same now also there was a question on how error responses would be protected or whether and I added some text basically saying the profiled must specify that whether and how you protect error responses in some cases it\u0027s not possible because you do not have a security Association in some other cases is and in some cases you want to send like some stuff that is visible and some other stuff that is encrypted and only readable for someone has a security right security Association and finally we did a number "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:52",
    "text": "of changes based on something that Hamas wanted to have that allows profiles to specify other payload formats than Seaboard because when we initially created the document we were assuming co-op and ANSI board and it\u0027s not as pointed out and as we then saw when people proposed the MTT profile people are looking at other transport formats and looking at other payload formats so to the best of my knowledge this should now be allowed by the framework I hope not but uses the HTTP stuffers for example you would have a client running regular oil getting in CWT instead of a job and then using this job as in the ACE framework so des was just a number of changes led led to some sentences that sound a bit painful to me but the idea was painful because they\u0027re kind of the last update you\u0027re pre-empting my next slide no problem so the next point was review by Jim I think mostly all these changes are to review by Jim and he pointed out that the term we using resource information was wrong to misunderstandings just for those who want to dwell delve in in a bit of nostalgia we call that client "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:52",
    "text": "information initially because I was thinking it\u0027s information for the client then someone complained oh this is miss understandable it could be interpreted as information about the client oh great no we don\u0027t want that so we called it resource information and then comes the equivalent argument so Jim suggested access information I implemented that change because it\u0027s more neutral you cannot like make that argument anymore and I don\u0027t have a very strong opinion about that if someone wants to argue it I\u0027m happy to hear but I changed that for the moment because Jim\u0027s arguments has some merit next thing there was a section about discovery of the authorization server so when a client does an unauthorized request to resource er it gets back some discovery information and there were some points in that section that weren\u0027t totally clear there are still some points left we discovered and we\u0027re going to address those as well we removed some text we had about a discussion that was unknowingly year ago about how constrained devices could measure time or not and there were some texts saying that we have this ongoing discussion which is no longer true we don\u0027t have it anymore so I removed that I think the consensus at that time was we are most likely to have wall clock time so we can measure ticks but we cannot be sure that we have synchronized clocks and then there was a number of editorial changes mostly commas missing when I wrote that hummus edit so thank you very much Hannes there was very a very extensive review of the grammar and syntax in the document so that was the last update since then we\u0027ve had a review by Jim and we\u0027ve had to interrupts a few issues were discovered which I don\u0027t have on my slides because the interrupt was during the hackathon and I made the slides on Thursday I think so here are the discussion points before the new discussion points that we have come up with first of all the key identified collisions I think we already covered this I\u0027m going to skip that alignment with OAuth that was what Hannes preempted me on telling these two parameters that are pretty close to each other which are overlapping somewhat there is this old of draft that is expiring to the best of my knowledge the OAuth PE was distribution graph thank you which defines a parameter called Algy which is intended to specify the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:55",
    "text": "proof of possession algorithm and in the ACE framework draft we have a parameter called profile which does something rather similar but my point would be that it does a bit more because it defines not only the proof of possession method but also the communication protocol and the communication security protocol you\u0027re supposed to use so I think this is merit to the point that we should discuss how to align this and until recently the work in off was dormant so I pulled large parts of this key distribution graph into the ACE framework I\u0027m happy to put then out again if it doesn\u0027t delay the progress of the escape work so if earth can move really fast with that and great less less text in this already pretty long framework document I\u0027m all for it but I\u0027m not convinced at the moment that this is the case that earth really will move forward fast on that so please convince me and I will be happy to oblige and remove the overlapping parts yes then there was a discussion point burnt up I\u0027m Mike so what we\u0027re doing is we\u0027re defining abbreviations for for claim names and parameter names and for some common parameter values and Mike was arguing that we were using the low digit byte numbers for this abbreviation in a wasteful way now person you can say when does the Seaboard representation switch from one bite to - I think it\u0027s at 255 or something 24 yes introduced I see okay so these are the most valuable ones then because they are very short that kind of kills part of my argumentation as I was thinking of the one byte abbreviations which obviously go a bit farther still all the parameters that are currently in the framework are either parameters defined by OAuth or defined by RFC 7800 and the confirmation draft that we have Plus this profile and ours called parameter that we are defining so I\u0027m absolutely open to discussion which of those parameters are unimportant enough to merit a larger abbreviation we should definitely do that and then we should select those that get the really small ones from minus two plus 24 that are the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:56",
    "text": "ones we use a lot cast moment you can waste a lot of time discussing these things yep I agree I think just somebody should do that but I can make chance microsoft my suggestion these are the values that we think are general purpose claims which should be registered to the extent you\u0027ve registered good last point raised by Jim we were at some point in the document talking about this discovery of the authorization server and we were saying in a little bit of nonchalant way that yeah if you don\u0027t do this unauthorized request and get back the its information you could also look it up in a resource directory it like this without thinking it through to the end Jim correctly pointed out there are no definitions in the resource directory drafts or in any other drafts for security attributes and luckily Kirsten has a point on the agenda about exactly that I think so we\u0027re going to be talking about that we are not the truth we have a lot of discussion about this issue of our resource server can point to my decline to information about how to get the authorization generally it\u0027s pretty easy to put things into a distillation pipe so if you have something describes the then you could find you later type authorized by and just point 202 playsets where they can get information about that so that would be a good activity looking at how this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:58",
    "text": "information would look like because we\u0027ll also take some pressure out of the need to be very comprehensive my question would then be do we want this to be in the framework draft or do we want to specify an additional draft say like resource directory security link attributes I think they\u0027re called landlord lesions are relation tax thank you I the way I\u0027ve addressed this currently because I addressed this comment to the best of my ability is to remove the explicit reference to resource directory since we don\u0027t have anything there and just state like you have this unauthorized request mechanism and you\u0027re allowed to use other mechanisms to inform the client about the authorization server and then we can do that with an independent draft specifying good I want to say that I agree this time is faster especially about independent everything good I was hoping for that answer next steps are we in a position or within your laptop we\u0027ve had a few interrupts we are fixing mostly detailed comments we obviously need to give an updated rat put all of this in Argus tends to be very bad and ever Whitney reclassify YUM so from learning let\u0027s shoot for September not explicitly I\u0027m continuously updating then perhaps let "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:12",
    "text": "me since you\u0027ve given me the occasion get a quick word in about implementations there is one which I wrote for unconstrained devices based in Java based on californium library there is one by Jim in c-sharp I\u0027m not mistaken Olaf from T said I is working on a constraint limitation Thomas says that arm has a product that implements the client resource server interactions of the ACE framework but does the client authorization server interactions with playing off and then there is a CI lab at Carnegie Mellon University who have both an unconstraint version based on my code but with their own add-ons and a constrained version that we almost got to interrupt with yesterday and we made giant leaps forward on that one I was told I\u0027m completely incompetent in embedded programming so I know no big help there but they\u0027re very close to being able to provide that so we have a number of implementations lying around but more the more the merrier please go ahead I think as there are a number of implementations the document is in a state where you can implement meaningful things and I don\u0027t expect changes that will totally break your code to a way where you need to start again from scratch so go ahead feel free if you want to get in touch with me please do that and we\u0027ll be more than happy to help you we want to do more interrupts virtual interrupts as well so go ahead it does thank you very much okay so to wrap it up the plan is we\u0027re gonna wait we\u0027re gonna run through this month and you know pause in August and in September right and by them I will address Jim\u0027s last set of comments and questions we raised during this intro so one more traffic yeah at least okay so next up on the agenda music oh sorry sorry shuts you were gonna talk about some of the group communications hello everybody I\u0027m Francesca I\u0027m going to talk about the key provisioning for group communication using ace wrapped so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:13",
    "text": "this is now in version 0 1 it was presented during last IDF for the first time yes so just one slide to recap what this was about this is a draft about joining secure group communication sohow client can become a member of our group and start securely community getting communicating with the group so the picture is the architecture that we were using so there is the client yeah yes the key distribution center which is the node that does the PD solution and then the group members and the dispatcher so we define in this draft message format to authorize and distribute King material and we make use of the ACE framework and profiles what is out of scope of this draft is how the group communication protection is done so what what is the mechanism used to protect the group communication and in this in this version of the draft we have added these revocation and renewal of key material which was very general in the diversion before although the algorithm the details are still out of scope so for status update of this draft of this draft we have updated according to review and discussion at IDF 101 so there are some minor details that have been updated such as the format of some parameters like get public keys which is the parameter that is sent to from the client to the key distribution center to say I want the public keys of these notes so now we have a way to send these either to request all the public keys of all the members of the group or to request specific a public keys and then we have add an expiration parameter so this is a new new cosa key parameter that was not described in all the drafts before so this is for the symmetric key for the group communication then the major update in this draft is about the retrieval of updated key material so just a reminder when there is a revocation or self removal of of a node of a member of a group these triggers rekeying from the key distribution center Center that just sends the new new key to the current members of the group so now we have also added this section to describe how a current member could request an update key material that can be both for the symmetric key or for the public keys in case for example in this this rekeying yeah for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:17",
    "text": "the symmetric key either for example if the key expire or there was a reboot or misra keying then interest requests this symmetric key to the to the key distribution center and the format of this message is just it contains this code parameter that is the same as the original key distribution request when the do node first join the groups and to get the public keys of the group members the current group members for example if there is a new member joining then the client sends this scope and also the get public keys parameter so as for open issues now with my co-author we have some questions for you and so about this part specifically so to retrieve either the symmetric key or the public keys we use the same format that the client first used when it joins the group which is this key distribution request and we simplify it because we don\u0027t need to send all the parameters that we send it when we first joined the group we only need to send this scope or scope and get public keys so as of now we have defined this two different requests to update the key material either symmetric or the public keys but as of now it is not possible to combine these two requests because this is not possible to differentiate between asking for both the symmetric keys and the public keys or asking only for the public keys so we have thought about it a little bit so we have three choices right now we came up with a possibility for so one solution would be if we want to be able to combine these two is to use different end points you could have one end point for asking a symmetric key you could have one end point for public and one for both sorry yes I\u0027m using the I\u0027m using the ACE terminology now that uses end point as resource yes four for four core is resource so this is one choice another choice is to add one additional parameter that could indicate yes I also want to ask for the symmetric and you could use that if you want to ask for both another choice is maybe we don\u0027t need to combine those two it\u0027s fine when asking each one of those separately there is also possibility to have a special format for some parameter to differentiate between those two requests with and yeah that\u0027s what we see so we wanted to ask the working group opinion about this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:23",
    "text": "is this if I\u0027m a little bit lost here um is the symmetric one here asking for this an updated symmetric key as opposed to when you\u0027re actually doing the join yes so I have this this is the key distribution request and response when when the node starts to join and then we use this request and response but simplified when the node wants to wants to request an update of this key material so yes based purely on simplicity I would not be okay far rather do it in the request itself yes agreed do you think what do you have a preference on using one additional parameter in the message itself or formatting differently just to differentiate between I want to up because as you can see when when we do the key distribution requests for the only the symmetric key we use we only need to send the scope and it\u0027s optional actually if we if we want to ask for the public keys we do need to send the scope and get public keys so if you want to combine those two you cannot really say if you\u0027re just want to ask for the public key so for both I don\u0027t have to take okay are there any other any other flips I want to provide feedback on the free options it\u0027s this even something that the is interesting or is it something we should work on or okay we will send an email in the mailing list and see yeah so yeah okay we will do that and I also want the update to be which is dependent on this okay there are two thank you for your comment there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:39",
    "text": "is two drafts about group communication which is the one I presented and the one the marker will present it\u0027s not this was this separation was done following comments at 280 absolute so and the first draft which is the one I just presented is the general one while the one the marker will present after me is the the worm that actually does the details and specify everything yeah the group was suggesting and this was done also because the general one which is the one I just presented can also it\u0027s also valid for the pub/sub so this is like there is a general one and two applications of it so understand that there is many drops there is the framework and then the general profile and then specific profile people don\u0027t stop again I understand argument still yeah so if more people think that we should go back to have one draft like we yeah we are doing what working with ones so I am all for readability so yeah again individual drafts right now when we start talking about so now what the pub/sub profile we have or we have updated according to the previous draft and nothing major it\u0027s just update according to this and there was there has been interesting previous meetings there has been a couple of reviews so my question is what is the next step so this is question to the chair and the next step is to actually get the okay so but this just for the record this is table and there has been no major change thank you feedback or a further conversation on either of these two drafts okay pivoting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:39",
    "text": "now Marco hello can you hear me and see me probably yes we can great hi everyone I\u0027ll give a quick update on this document presented at earlier ITF meetings describing how to use the ACE framework in this profile to join groups where communications are secured during using a score next please yeah there\u0027s updates are mostly user synchronizing this document with the latest updated version of Oscar bromb describing at how to actually secure communications in the group and the document Francesca is just present and describing the generic message format to be used for key provisioning for communication and last but not least we processed very helpful review we got form either under stopped right after thanks a lot for that going through the updates we had to touch the terminology a little bit already to align it with group of score in the first place would used to be called multi caster as a group member sending out requests the group is now simply request their liking group of score now just not to stress anymore specific multicast traffic but just group traffic we kept instead pure listener and listener with the same meaning as before and now pure listener aligned with silent serving group of school we cannot not use client and server now here when it comes to sending messages around otherwise you\u0027d risk confusion with the meaning of client and server in ace then consistently also we is Keep Calm we had some parameters in the messages exchanged in different phases like the authorization request we had removed the parameter guitar keys because there\u0027s no reason for the joining not to tell explicitly the authorization server about its intercept of of getting public keys of group members later on from the KDC meaning the oscar group manager next slide please we adjusted also the drawing response consistent with a true coma specialist definitely x-parameter to signal whether a parameter of the Kazuki is going to expire in this case the score master secret in particular and after that there supposed to be a renewal of the key material in the group we also clarify something that was missing as to the client ID parameter which is supposed to be used to provide to the journey not the endpoint ID assigned by the group manager and there are some cases where it can be in fact to meet it and we clarify which ones of those next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:41",
    "text": "please then there were also out of Peters review a lot of editorial polishing and improvements related to terminology no score the ACE framework and his profile and a special interaction between these actors we clarify also about the possible dynamic nature of the group identifier as as described in the main group of score document it can be composed of the fixed part prefix and the dynamic part I poke that is supposed to be changed upon each renewal of key material in the group so essentially the journey node is supposed to get the actual current updated a group identifier from the group manager the resource server here only upon joining and interacting with the group manager through the server ID parameter of the Casa key and then there\u0027s something that is right now aligned but is more of an open point actually now this is consistent with the main score document where we admit the group manager to both be or not be depending on on your setting the repository of public key of group members so right now we are contemplating two possibilities consistently in Peters review that was also comment and personal I agree with that that for the sake of this document described out to join Guinness core group using ace it\u0027s probably better also for the sake of implementations to consider only one alternative so we just go for the group manager being the repository of public e and that\u0027s it so I attend to favor Peters opinion I also wonder what the group thinks about that and in case we should just limit the option to the group managers wrap off public keys next slide please and this is in fact the last one so this update was the result of discussions out of ITF 101 Peters review thanks again for that and of course alignment with the latest version of oscar group calm and the ski group con that francesca presented so others believe this is principal in a good shape to take a step forward with option thanks a lot discussion feedback from group I just don\u0027t express my interest in these paths and that the good communication for us it\u0027s really important and hopelessness thanks Peter "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:44",
    "text": "others so with this draft we\u0027re gonna do the same thing as we discussed when Francesca was presenting we\u0027re going to curve some of the conversation about I would do the adoption and chill it so progress continues okay thanks Marco appreciate it thank you all all right so next up we\u0027re gonna have a more kind of open-ended discussion we want to talk about resource directory authorization and then we either a person or goddess through that conversation but before we get into that we just wanted to be up that after this presentation is done we\u0027re going to ask some questions is this something that should be kind of examining very interesting so Peter Kirsten [Music] a used official at the world PDF etc you don\u0027t know about it yes okay very good um some motivation this in the resource directory which we do in the core Berger group we have not really looked at security aspects how much very rightly said that we should look at the security aspects especially with the fact that we have names for the endpoints which we administrate and those names are unique so what I wanted to propose here is that we do not do normative text in the resource directory about how security problems should be solved but actually it might be well to have an example this gives guidelines and IDs how this should be done sis that we are not confirmed that later on with very weird implementations which do not actually solve the problem ok so we are looking forward to a set to discussions and if the working group wants to continue this work or comment on it well the threat is a very simple one an endpoint used as a server in this case let\u0027s just a session you endpoint name shouldn\u0027t we have two a and B this is the very short version of the threat as discussed in the resource directive is named a 1 and B 1 suppose B is malicious "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:45",
    "text": "and B registers with name a1 and when a was the rest of a1 the resource directory tell you know don\u0027t go and in how much words this is toast we are very badly off so the idea is then to suggest an authorization server and we asked authorization server the client who wants to register ask the authorization server for foreign a token in which is authorized business token to actually registers his entrance that\u0027s the idea we the way I construct example is that I will use the application Sieber media format that DT less is used that the client asks for that over so the a s with sufficient information to do it and I\u0027ll come back to that further I\u0027m very happy for Stephie ski mark who tells me that I used a way to express the end points name since she says why don\u0027t you use the scope but other people have other suggestions as understood so what is the client background for the for the footage for the example I chose is that it has a certificate installed so I\u0027m not looking at public keys etc but well there wasn\u0027t suggested for that but then we have to have mappings and looked into the mappings I got overwhelmed and so I keep it to this as an activity the example is East Eco pass that is an extension of whisky where we assume that an device has been installed is a certificate what we want to do is that the endpoint name equals the certificate identifier so when the endpoint says look here I want to register with this endpoint name this can be by the server can be a processor for this can be verified from certificate I have here an example of a certificate to the right don\u0027t put too much attention on it the idea is they care and unique certificate identifier which comes from the CN field and the serial number field yeah we have three so the scope name suggestion so what should be the value of the scope the ff3 cases bomb is when endpoint registers itself services and put name we have a third part commissioning tool which actually registers and also an EP name and we have an update of registrations which is not completely worked out in the red in the resource directory yet but it\u0027s coming down in all of them I have the scope I have three different actions mom is the EP registration for the endpoint registers itself long is the commissioning tool does it and in it you will find the EP name and the EP sector which is actually optional and okay the EP name is the essential part here so the values of the EP name and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:45",
    "text": "sector which are suggested is that for the EP name we use the certificate identifier which we take from the certificate and the EP sector is actually configured in the authorization server for give a certificate identifiers so it should be knowing that the certain end point can ask for this EP name within this sector and here is an example so this is an see WTO Java so we have and when we sent the to the resource server yeah we have this the destination of the token discuss the resource directory the in exploration times etc and then the call scope which is the EP registration which is rebounds this end point to register with the unique name fareham Moto G prefer sexy and no sector alt and we have some the cozy key and I think those cows key can actually be taken probably from the public key which is also stored in the in the in the certificate so that you can do actually verify that the one who\u0027s asking for the claim is actually also the possessor of the this is not I want to see I wanted to act that as an example if the example s proposed here is not secure or does not fulfill the conditions I really like to hear about it or if you have other ways to solve it I also really like to do this is the question was here Jonathan Hammond from CSC typically first to get fires in the case of CMS you didn\u0027t get the last answer sorry for certificate identifiers to align with things like CMS typically you use issuer and serial number so I wonder if I\u0027m the only one who thinks this is way too complex for a problem that we have seen before in many many places so when you do ipv6 neighbor discovery you have the same problem that you use your MAC address but here someone else would come and claim claim your MAC address and reduce register and address and what you do is you simply use a random identity and even from a privacy parts of you that I would encourage using something that\u0027s completely random so I don\u0027t see why you can\u0027t just use the random endpoint name and register it and then the next guy comes and uses a completely random endpoint name what issues do you run into what kind of limitations you have on the endpoint name does it have to be human readable humor not just a table like I don\u0027t see the point boy it has to go to another party now and say can I use this endpoint name get approved then go back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:46",
    "text": "and say yes you are able to use this endpoint name I I think this is way too common syncs with documents so the initial problem is we want what I try to address was that we an ID device that uses our the talk to that Rd and provided its end point name was some identifying in two different layers it provided it at the ELS an equalist layer in the certificate and it again provided it in the coop in the co-op layer of the ADI in the DT Ellis Ellis layer if you wrap it all syndication so whatever you said previously about whatever identifier is India and I some people may use serial numbers others may not but it doesn\u0027t matter but then the problem was really that at the higher layer had another identifier which was not authenticated so my proposal was get rid of the duplicated identify out the application layer that it\u0027s not authenticated our solution however is different you are then going back to the to an authorization server which then finds the stuff that is in the certificate with what is being presented at the application layer this would of course be another possibility is if you make sure that they identify you pass in Adi as an endpoint name is equal to what the stuff that you provide in the certificate was thin then it wouldn\u0027t be a problem okay on the other hand that makes the question of like why do you need to send both the same information twice as well then later for beer it but then this do then actually just look at the stuff that you authenticating the first place so I understand what you said admission of stupid New Guinea but here\u0027s coverage Simmons yeah I agree with that so and in that sense I wanted to ask to - let me you presented here one way that is ace related but there are also other ways how to do is cure or authorize registration is that correct lots of them know by heart but ok and you don\u0027t to look at the detail s suggestion yeah so so because I would expect from well it\u0027s the discussion from the core mailing list about RT but that there is for instance also adjust the certificate based way so if the client has a certificate the tears that feel queer basically the endpoint name comes from and it\u0027s proven that you process that meaning and this is one way another way could be that you have some something like just open so that some some external authority says yeah you are allowed to use it so meaning in general we just meet yeah authorization for Rd that is clear and that this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:48",
    "text": "just a way to use a swathe but there should be also other ways like more simple ways as your Una\u0027s proposed with picture the simple basis on this again but you do embrace another interesting question namely is the registration does it require some authorization so you have the scope for army today which provides that information so if you have a son sort of a separate authorization server food then allows you to get the token which indicates that you are able to do the authorization maybe that could be useful but specifically for those cases for you have is which is another feature which you didn\u0027t have in your slide but it\u0027s in the document is this third party registration I think the earth this mechanism comes in handy it doesn\u0027t quite work in a way you describe it in my opinion because you have a third party who registers a bunch of different end points in in sort of one shot in this of course there\u0027s the question of like how do you actually secure this and currently the spec says oh and I was that was also one of the other comments because people said oh we can\u0027t do this matching for these endpoints because we have this er party registration which I agree is true but but I don\u0027t know what the security story there thanks for the printer okay that\u0027s why okay so I watched this discussion and during the entire discussion I had no idea we\u0027re trying to do so I took one step back and try to find out what are we trying to do next time and generally in the IGF we do know how to protect things we have a great toolkit for protecting things well usually you have three mechanisms that we just need to choose from but we often then protect the wrong things and I think it\u0027s really important to understand what what you should actually the objectives that we are trying to protect and of course typically people who come from a specific environment are stuck in some some ways of doing things that that are wonderfully secure because they protect all the objectives that they happen to protect but they don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:48",
    "text": "solve the problem so that\u0027s a bit the people the point of view of that and coming from me and I don\u0027t have solutions they only have questions but I think it\u0027s worth to take this stand for what exactly\u0027s so all the discussion on the mailing list was about the endpoint name which is kind of useful if you are sitting in front of a management station and want to know whether that thing over there actually it still works or not but it\u0027s not quite clear that this is actually something we care about very much so like where it said just use or anyone and then we\u0027re done so the assumption here seems to be that the registration requires authorization for registration under and in point name but the resource directory does not care at all about what is registered under this thing and okay that the effect that the particular end point registered something probably also protects changes through that so that only that end point can change so that\u0027s useful thing to have but it sent out quite clear whether the the second bullet here the resource break who doesn\u0027t care about what is registered another name actually solves our objectives next slide please so what are potential threats and I certainly didn\u0027t try to be exhaustive here but just just as a simple example so if you don\u0027t control the attributes that you actually registered together with the other information for an endpoint then of course I can register something under another nodes appearance for instance so I can put in a registration that has the wrong attributes in it or I could also for myself claim the wrong attributes I\u0027m the temperature sensor for room 405 so in those cases we are where it\u0027s important that the discovery process which uses the resource directory actually finds the things that need to be thought I think this is this is not good so yeah on the other hand endpoint names are kind of not so important I don\u0027t care how the temperature sensor in room 405 is is named I might have an application where I have a Symantec endpoint name and so on and then it starts to make more sense but if I have a random one it\u0027s just not that important and actually we have designed the resource query in such a way that the endpoint name isn\u0027t even visible to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:50",
    "text": "someone looking at the resource so protecting it is is kind of beside the point next time so really in I\u0027m sorry we spent the weekend talking about semantics so maybe I\u0027m a little bit on a particular rail here but they have a - we have to talk about protecting semantics so dust the authorization that we get from an authorization server maybe have to include the the effect that the authorization in this case is for a temperature sensor and no you cannot say you are a refrigerator when you are a temperature sensor does it include that that would be intrinsic semantics are can can you Limit registrations to some extrinsic cement-like you are the temperature sensor in room 405 406 and what we need to do not today not here but what we ultimately need to understand is we need to represent those authorization semantics in our authorization data structures and the only place we have right now is this scope and that might be a little bit too unwieldy because just a string cannot put structural information in there so maybe we have to think about other scope like claims that clarify what the authorization is for there are also other proposals for authorization information formats and so on I just want to point out there is a lot of things that we may want to put into the CWG and interesting I think you are sort of like shuffling the problem around in some sense you know like the discussion we started office do we need is in pointing and the answering cannot be oh there are all these other things that we could security issues could we talk about them that I want to solve this endpoint name thing first and yes they are this important issues with devices device attestation and sort of making sure that the sensor data is indeed not an batwave and there\u0027s all sorts of very complicated problems some of them which are unsolvable because you can even if the sensor data\u0027s correct you may put for example a candle next to a temperature sensor yes give you incorrect value but so I think if we could just solve the somewhat simple "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:52",
    "text": "very much Rd related question of what is the semantics of the endpoint name and I fear and I haven\u0027t verified it if I go and pick up Li Shan as one example implementation if I mess around with the value I will then suddenly get that server to trick me into doing things like I asked him to do server-side key generation for my devices which in fact I\u0027m just faking someone else\u0027s device and it gives me the keys for that device which is someone else\u0027s device and that would not be good yeah I think the the the problem we are going to run into if we just solve the the protection of the endpoint name is that people are going to start encoding the semantics that they actually need and they actually want to project into those endpoint yet and I mean we are seeing this in real world deployments or that this is not hypothetical so in the end we are starting to define a semantic language for nodes encoded in and part names and that\u0027s probably not a good fake Jeff CTBT actually expanded the spoke to be a binary garden so you\u0027re not restricted to just drink we can actually have spoken so that is probably not as good whereas a cretin suggesting there is a potential problem that we don\u0027t have any sort of standardized idea of how to structure data but that\u0027s a different issue we have many of them rent on just one right but we don\u0027t have a great either so I\u0027m I\u0027m trying to figure out two things here one is are you is are we asking the group to solve a particular problem you\u0027re dealing with resource directory is school or are we trying to say it use this as an example of a more general problem in which case I\u0027m having a problem our from Peters presentation I\u0027m having a problem of punishment with general papoulas I\u0027ve got a bit more of an issue of an idea from your presentation you think the general problem can you give me a three sentence description of what you think the general problem should it be I said carry he has one carrying then I think the general problem is to follow we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:56",
    "text": "used to DNS you can even get violent PMS but DNS SEC doesn\u0027t say anything about the actual rasa T of the information that\u0027s in that zone file we assume that there\u0027s a human administrator in India or that there\u0027s a trusted element that puts things so we\u0027re talking about a case where they come out of the box and they need to be able to represent to other clients what they actually services they actually provide and we want that to be accurate information I wouldn\u0027t want to be trusted information so that\u0027s to put you on the spot I mean this isn\u0027t a sense than the enduring conversation to have is problem I can put it in one sentence he\u0027s no human in the loop okay so so how can you be sure of the veracity of the information so current deployments so the original assumption was that there is some way that the optimization servers and resource directory are covered in such a way that that all this can be done behind the scenes and what we are doing now is trying to understand how can we reduce that coupling and actually have a resource directory maybe inject with authorization service of very different kinds and still collect information in one place that has some veracity to it but you can always do the tight coupling that\u0027s the easy solution and we don\u0027t need to write "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:56",
    "text": "anything Carolyn Oracle plus 9 I have a question about actually have to first my understanding and I could be wrong is that the information that one finds in a resource directory could also be gotten directly from the node yes if one does it get the Roman four so I guess question number one is should protecting this information also extend to the client itself and you basically ask the client you know what is what does it support and number two is it possible to look at a solution like perhaps signing all the links that can come back finding the collection yeah so um the interesting thing about right on call is that it\u0027s very clear that the information that is in there is a claim by the device that carries that final call now in a recess break we we mix all this stuff up and this mixing has has a lot of problems to it because somebody who goes to the users directory doesn\u0027t have the provenance of the information that is mixed up in that Lisa stretcher so maybe we just have to be a bit more careful and preserving that and preserving ways for somebody who looks into a resource directory to assess the information in there so that that would be one behalf of the answer the other half of course is a resource review also associate resource and we have to protect that shared resource so we need to understand what the text sign there so somebody could masquerade as 1 million endpoint names and make it really hard to find anything in their thing so that\u0027s also something we need to do it slightly different objective and in many environments it\u0027s relatively easy to do this because we have a boundary around the column but in the end it must be possible to define that boundary in a way that the resource pressure can actually information also one of the issues in terms of dealing Providence is that when you ask the resource directory for an answer it will return bits and pieces or different see can\u0027t actually tie your way all the way back to the original Providence yeah maybe we want to change that so that\u0027s questions that I really helps is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:48",
    "text": "talking about a piece of authorization that is transferred from the authorization server to the resource directory so we are talking about the scope to the client that is thank you client says yes exactly padhu so in terms of I think there are multiple things I hope and in spending it will so finally at the security layer the endpoint name is being transferred system where it is becoming incident because it\u0027s out in the open so there is a cop always trying to find out that simple key to be found it home back in the system we think that square is complexities arising so probably that we need to solve other other things are like what is secured in the security so if we are able to achieve the context what we are talking about in that particular system between Rd under particular endpoint name that could be same name which is being listed by three people but if you are able to find the comp context between that endpoint and that RV and it\u0027s not exchanged between anybody else then that constant remains that context which remains constant so you can have three a ones but the with multiple identities between the Rd and a 1 1 a 1 2 A 1 B it never crop mixer system that kind of solution so did I hear say we need to be able to have local identify us "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:48",
    "text": "this is Matias I want to go back to the argument or discussion before so initially I was a bit confused after usage of scope in the proposal by Peter and now I got even more confused saying that it\u0027s the authorization server that kind of grant yet this is the right endpoint name and so on so step a bit back so my understanding of all this was that we have a coupe of possession token and there I can prove that a certain claim that is precise I\u0027m sorry never say I wrote it because so the the client can prove a certain claim possession token and so the over setup would be that an authorization server can grant authorization to register at an RD but then it\u0027s up to the client that the client who\u0027s yeah and I really am allowed to use this endpoint name and that\u0027s so it would be a claim in the full possession token that somehow has to be proven by the means of the token but it\u0027s not something that is granted by the authorization server but you only can prove the possession of a key so what what\u0027s the relationship between the key and tiempo name so there must be some something like a certificate that says yeah this entity is allowed to use that name and that can be imprinted on the device that as a client want to register or it could be that this key is also available for instance to the commissioning tool that then can use yeah I am not at the endpoint that he wants register but I\u0027m allowed to use the endpoint name because I\u0027m the commissioning tool on its behalf yes one assumption that maybe is underlying all this is that all the permission granting is done by authorization service so that the reasoner\u0027s authorization server somewhere that has granted the permission to edge of this register this is something so my point was to - to separate this so one so the instead the the obvious of authorization server would be that allows a client who registered with that rde yes but that\u0027s not the authorization server that has any knowledge of ever deafblind has the right to use that end point name or not that has to come well initially from from Klein itself it can be then moving with the pop token and so on or maybe we have been a more elaborate out-of-band mechanism but it\u0027s kind of a separate track from the obvious authorization server that is only about being authorized in register at NRG so you would have a second issuer that actually controls the authorization for using an endpoint name yes also and that the bigger problem is also this is more complex and they are some simple solutions there for instance there at the time that registers had a certificate that can prove that it\u0027s allowed to use that name and if that is not enough then we can look into some more elaborate ways but if we intended multiple problems in this um because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:51",
    "text": "well the obvious thing is we need some authorization from register at the Rd there\u0027s fear ace is nice because it have this authorization server and so on so we use it for that is a client allowed again Deborah declined is allowed to use that name and so on that\u0027s something that is yeah under a different authority actually that\u0027s fine I think that\u0027s a useful observation that we may want to have different sources of authority here and the namespace for in point names of it that is in some way variable that may be controlled by somebody else then the one that authorizes registration in time this law to use a certain endpoint name so you can have something really simple that would also work for instance in just using DTLS in in certificate mode and so the purpose of a certificate is to bind a name to public key so that put very much solve that problem and the third point was that be not necessarily needed authorization server super cases but this is like the first step and then the second step after this is speaking about maybe a second the one digit modification I would make to what you said is I wouldn\u0027t use certificates and symbol in the same engines Jim Chuck there\u0027s one concept that it suddenly dawned on me and resource directories that we haven\u0027t discussed here that does have some impact potentially on names and that\u0027s groups because if you\u0027re doing groups it may actually be very important that the name to be predetermined rather than made up on the block because the entity doing the registration may not be yeah so there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:52",
    "text": "are two parts of this somebody wants to control who is authorized to and a potential member of a group wants to be able to control not one thing the moon back the problem of the first point how do you prevent yeah so this is a problem that outside the ietf right all join did solve this I do the presentation I think you think with what they call capabilities and so a lot of what Matthias is saying is analogous to that and so the if you have an entity that takes care of signing the fact that a device can be a temperature sensor that anything is you know you\u0027re onboarding tool or whatever you\u0027re using this your I\u0027m authorizing the thing to be on my network I\u0027m getting it a token I\u0027m getting the signature I\u0027m getting a certificate whatever it is it\u0027s a security mechanism of choice right the unborn tool says you are authorized to be a temperature sensor that\u0027s separate and they a separate from saying that whether you\u0027re allowed to register that information and you pointed out like Tony pointed out that you know DNS you put the information in there and you don\u0027t know whether it\u0027s the correct information or not whether you\u0027re off the right to put it in there is a different question so there\u0027s actually two things going on one is when resolving information you may or may not be using the resource directory you might be using you know multicast or whatever and you still want the same problem to be solved right and so the response whether you\u0027re getting it in a resource directory or whether you\u0027re getting it from the device itself okay contains some data that\u0027s the data that you need to be able to solve at did at the requester level to say the information that I got back is good or not okay and so even if the resource directory does not take care of that if you had a common mechanism between the two which is how all join did it then whether if the resource directory holds bad data or not as just an efficiency yes because I would throw it away in the same way as I would throw away and multicast response it\u0027s not on you can then choose to say my registration server might choose to check it the same way as any other request to check it before I actually put it into my database you could do that if they\u0027re from the same authority and they trust each other like you saying those are two separate ones this one is I just wanted to point out that there is a discussion about this the ethical reputation features to address some of these problems on number one later today as a Bop of 6 p.m. I can send it to the live in case you haven\u0027t seen separate medium guess what yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:57",
    "text": "there is a slight terminology problem the charm attestation we\u0027ve just used is about signing signing acclaim that\u0027s what you call it a station there is also something called a testing system health and these are two different things so those people who don\u0027t care about a testing system as they still want to go to the book this unit and to add to that insect dispatch we\u0027re going to be talking about two giraffes parolin again a relative to Dave\u0027s point about separating the accuracy that triggers in my mind you want to limit which started to talk about disclosure here so this is all about integrity and not about privacy so so at least the integrity question seems to be answered that if if my links are signed represented as a set of links and that set is signed then I should be able to apply the same token to make the assertion up to the Rd and say here\u0027s my information okay think that poses what is cooking yes it was and I appreciate the book facilitating facilitating this won\u0027t work what\u0027s in a well-known course should ever be registered in an RD and I think we\u0027ve been talking about using an RD to buy additional semantics to the context of things also so we need to figure out if that means the same perfection yeah okay Benedict thanks for having this discussion it\u0027s really great to hear the thoughts being bounced around this is I can\u0027t use the word scope this is a different topic than we usually been covering so we might need to think about if we need to reach higher to actually agree so we were not naive enough coming into this conversation that we would get any class of resolution but just randomly aggregating some of the things I heard you know as to what is even the problem so we can narrow down not using "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:57",
    "text": "the word scope but narrow down what the it is so we can make decision whether we want to work on it whether the Charter I mean are we just talking about something narrow related to end points is that just an exemple arm a general problem what is the link between that endpoint discussion and the general problem then dot dot dot what is the general problem you want to solve so that\u0027s on the table then we just briefly had a conversation are we trying to solve an integrity issue retrying to solve a privacy issue probably kind of both but at what level is it a nice or we\u0027re using other constructs we also had a discussion about what does this solution look like relative to that are we talking about a way versus bellei so do we want some flexibility to do potentially doing this multiple ways while there\u0027s eko there then just noting in the solution regardless of whether it\u0027s one solution or a solution you know we need to make sure you consider group communications a topic we we talked about a little earlier and we heard local folks provide feedback keep it simple which may or may not be kind of possible given that we haven\u0027t made any decisions but that was a mantra that was heard a couple times so in that wrap up if I missed one to kind of wanted your key themes as you came up to the mic of a please kind of cue correctly all right so we\u0027re had any more conversation about this potentially not just kind of here ace okay so next up is we added a last thing to the agenda that was not previously the man list to talk about ed Hawk yeah get your slides [Music] we need a sec so oh I think you can start and thank you for keeping the discussion short so we could have a short update on our network so we\u0027ve been doing some progress since since last taste meeting and I like to share some of the points you I\u0027m really soon real sorry okay next line please "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:09:03",
    "text": "so the two main updates since last meeting yes the first one is the formal verification formal verification so we have been working together with people at the IT University of Copenhagen and doing a form of verification of version 0-8 and turns out it has the the expected security properties in terms of strong authentication for what for secrecy and so on so there was one concern about not to that\u0027s the date the application layer data carried in message two we are addressed that in in the latest version of the protocol so we I think this is one good good resolution the one on discussion points in the face-to-face meeting on the formal properties of the protocol and then another major update into the protocol is that we have made further reduction of the message size so - so for the raw public key authenticated diffie-hellman that\u0027s the two right most columns there\u0027s a comparison with TLS 1.3 and you see it\u0027s essentially half less than half the number of bytes in total whereas for the PSK authenticated diffie-hellman it\u0027s actually a third of the message size the massive total number of bytes which is then can be mapped to the frames number of frames in terms of and and then in turn to two latency and and power consumption so some some more details of the changes that we made so we renamed the app to parameter two unprotected additional data just to illustrate that this data this was the comment from the formal verification that this data is actually not protected it\u0027s not authentic but it\u0027s not authenticated party user authenticates at the point when this data is being sent that\u0027s one way we address that that comment and the other comments here are also input from from various reviews we made the session identifier optional when the underlying lay here can be used to to enable the binding so for example in coop is used that was a comment by Jim in the previous review we changed raw public key format from x.509 to cozy key which reduces the message size and also allows the use of key identifier another comment from Jim is that we always integrity protect the whole credential so the certificate or the kisuke and then there were a number of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:12:05",
    "text": "other changes for the reduction of overhead following the request from applications that they actually need a more lightweight handshake this is from six dish and also from four applications using narrowband IOT which is this cellular low decorate taxes and I like to add to that for for people working with Artie security we can still today here 2018 but some companies want to deploy IOT without security because they find the overhead problematic for latency and for other reasons so that\u0027s actually the reason why we are doing this work and we think that this is going at least aiding in the overhead inspector so here are the other changes in terms of reduced overhead and the first point I\u0027d like to stress here we\u0027re like to have a discussion around is what we are actually removing the monsters from from the protocol so this is the previous version of the protocol we had nonces but we allow the reuse of ephemeral keys in this version of the protocol we remove denounces and do not allow the reuse of Meral keys so this may be a contention contention point but we are happy to discuss we think it\u0027s in in the interest of reducing overhead this is spelled ago but I\u0027m sure that someone will comment on that there are certainly pedagogical issues medical degree seems to keep the nonces here and we\u0027d like to have have a discussion about the security aspects another thing is that we don\u0027t send entire entire intramural key we only send x-coordinate the curve algorithm the ciphertext and encrypted signature instead of the full cozy structures so this is actually in line with what I was course doing and it\u0027s in line with what was requested to the mailing list to do in the sport profile so 60s has a problem fitting it into the frames and instead of carrying the entire Coast the object you you pick out the important parts and you recreate the cozy object at the receiver side that gives a good last compression of the message use algorri indices specify chosen algorithms which is also another technique for reducing overhead and and last but not least we use sequence of C "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:15:06",
    "text": "border elements instead of arrays perhaps it was actually least anyway so that\u0027s that\u0027s the type of changes that led to this low overhead the next steps is to ensure that the formal verification of version zero eight actually holds also for these changes in Sarah nine most changes are not with respect to the security properties of the Prophet always this overhead was more like the four months but we still need to complete the formal verification and update the security considerations and more use our are very welcome in questions or comments okay thanks thank you okay administrative really most important where are the blue sheets has everyone signed the blue sheets so I see folks need to sign in the back so if you could who things to but to the signup to the back we have a couple of minutes for open mic is there anything anyone wants to talk about going once going twice okay somebody just pull up what some of the decisions were of the work and they just read them off okay so when we were talking about the CWT proof of possession kind of draft about what the next step will is related to that the authors are gonna look at what was posted on the mailing list for the last week that summarize what are some of the outstanding issues and that will be the steps necessary for further progression then in talking about the law or position kind of framework another draft is going to be published kind of the August timeframe when we\u0027re going to go working with last call in September there were no more drafts individual drafts we talked about relative to group communication we decided we\u0027re going to continue kind of working on those but we\u0027re gonna defer working group adoption until some of the framework documents are complete we had a very robust discussion around resource directory kind of authorization you know as I have kind of wrapped up there is some issues of what\u0027s the real problem which part of the problem what are kind of solutions and we\u0027re gonna have to continue discussing that so that\u0027s everything that came out and worth you so any again final kind of thoughts the like we have a little bit of time otherwise we\u0027re done okay in that case thanks so much everyone see you in the mailing list "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:19:23",
    "text": "[Music] "
  }
]