[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:36",
    "text": "if you\u0027re looking for a boutique car this is it if you\u0027re not it\u0027s not it that\u0027s true I mean if there\u0027s nothing to chase us out let me do something else but how could that won\u0027t happen well you\u0027re yeah alright at this this is beginning to seem more like a critical mass so welcome to abt core what okay so Tim has volunteered to take notes in the ether pad since either pad if anybody wants to open it look over his shoulder and see if he and you know correct his typos or whatever I\u0027m sure he would appreciate that do we have anybody other than me in the driver room I doubt that\u0027s gonna be but we do have two more row participants so we but I mean so they\u0027re more participants if you want to speak to the room and you can use the remote cue but if not I can keep an eye on the room but it\u0027d be good if you had somebody else in the GABA room just to relay if necessary I\u0027ll keep an eye on as much as I can okay so Colin well Colin will keep an eye on that so I think that\u0027s all the opening administrivia so let\u0027s see no well I think this is the wrong note well as where the users business they\u0027re supposed to be new one now I never remember okay well pretend this is the new not well and note it well and if you have any IPR you figure out what to do and do the right thing please our agenda starting with their agenda passion status update then will have Colin doing the arm cat feedback message Magnus as it turns out doing the multiplexing guidelines and then Ronnie doing his priority marking header extension and then anything else you\u0027re interested in before you could all wander off and argue about what the label RFC means later on no new published documents this time but we still have a bunch of stuff sitting in the RFC editor key with Miss RAF\u0027s most of which aren\u0027t our fault "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:41",
    "text": "we\u0027re still waiting on bundle and but one of which is still waiting on frame marketing so that\u0027s on us multipath RTP is still expired last time we had some discussion we were going to do a comma list see if anybody still cared who cared so little that we didn\u0027t do the call on the list which it probably tells us something so I don\u0027t remember what I I think remember what we agreed what the decision was last time but multipath RTP are we going to see if anybody cares and if not remove it as a mouse done okay so we\u0027ll try to actually member to do that this time note-taker please for the notes of human notes to remind us to do that okay okay good and Rachel said she\u0027ll actually do it which is good cuz she remembers to do things with me and then frame marking we had a working group last call and there were a number of comments and then there was no new revision which seems unfortunate or any of the authors of that here Mo\u0027s not here our Mo\u0027s on the Medeco mode you want to talk about what the status of remarking is here\u0027s all excellent button properly no there there we are well we don\u0027t hear you now we hear you blow quietly yeah yes we still have to a couple of updates I\u0027ll try to get those done during this week still some questions about the types of streams that that the frame marking is useful for and some people are now questioning whether or not the restrictions we put in place are really okay to handle real streams that people plan to use to recap there\u0027s a restriction of it must be terribly nested streams that\u0027s the only thing that frame marking is recommended for some people are wondering whether or not that\u0027s actually too restrictive so we\u0027re trying to figure out if there\u0027s ways to relax and those and get the updates in all right so we\u0027ll look for that update this week I mean if you could also also send to the list how you resolve the various issues that were raised in the last call let me get look at that and decide whether everybody greets those are the rights resolutions and Sybil from the last call the Ronnie also had a question about I guess it\u0027s more related to his version of frame marking but he was wondering about our all of the packets "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:42",
    "text": "with the discard bit roughly equivalent or not and of course his version is giving more differentiation in just that one bit but I think is probably still a valid question of whether or not we should add something in the frame marking graph to indicate that whether the other fields should also be used in that case is the discard priority just on the debit or is it also on a deviating the question I had more was more because I got the same question in my draft about how do you know how how much bandwidth is used in each of the layers in order if you want to discard and you want to achieve a certain bandwidth so it was asked from me about the priorities but I figure out it\u0027s the same issue also if you want to discard some layers because you have a bandwidth restriction or congestion how do you know what is the bandwidth of each of the layer because at least I wrote in the document that I think I talked to any other we do it is basically we do it based on some knowledge from the past we just try to figure out what\u0027s being happening in the in the streams and figure out what\u0027s the each priority what\u0027s the bandwidth of each priority I think that\u0027s probably similar here it\u0027s just sub simple heuristics about Ronnie do you agree that the third well mother thinks that means there does not need to be new text on the document you use their normative text that we could add or we could add I think just some informative text that says that that you can figure out if you want to if you want to get too specific then weights so you want to know what\u0027s each layer what Ben widgets is using you can figure it out based on some past knowledge or some other means that you don\u0027t need to I don\u0027t know if you need to specify that even it\u0027s just I think it\u0027s very trivial okay from my perspective it\u0027s nothing that it\u0027s a you can figure out how to do that um yeah I mean it\u0027s I think sort of the the the dual of that is that there\u0027s no promises about either the discount the fraction packet that of this card bid or the fact of the packet that at any given layer information it\u0027s just you have to figure it out by watching the screen yeah everything\u0027s estimate there\u0027s no there\u0027s no way that you can say upfront what anything needs other than just they exist and have these relationships but not their relative bandits no Colin Perkins up I slightly feel we\u0027re having "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:42",
    "text": "the last agenda item first okay it\u0027s not clear to me that trying to estimate the fraction of the marking is necessarily gonna work in practice because that requires storing a lot of state information in the middle boxes you know just do that estimation so you know it I mean if if it\u0027s just a single drop bit then yeah we\u0027re probably okay if we\u0027re trying to signal different priority levels and different preferences because I think it\u0027s almost also the temporal layers that you get in the in print marking yeah proper I mean if you\u0027re gonna be dropping things you you presumably need to know the statistics of your how often things with particular markings occur to just like what to drop and and I mean yes I suppose in theory you could observe the stream and estimate that but that Rick that relies on the stream being long lived and the problems only occurring after the stream has been long enough lived for you to make a good estimate of the data and you having enough state to be able to do that calculation on live traffic and there may be cases where that works but I suspect there also a lot of cases where that\u0027s difficult to do I was just mark just when I sent the email I said that I think the same issue rise is equivalent to if you want to know when when you have differently if you have different in different layer which how much is used in each layer in order to figure out what if you want to drop to a specific to specific people that\u0027s all it\u0027s the same problem what I\u0027m saying the same problem I mean Dominic\u0027s individual who doesn\u0027t feel like standing up i I feel like this is I mean frame marking it\u0027s sort of engineered to be a lightweight description of layers not a heavyweight description of layers and I think that that\u0027s sort of a fundamental assumption of this approach that it just says here are the layers and how they\u0027re behaving we\u0027re not telling you anything about that that just they exist and we want to have you a description of layers then we need to have so either some additional spec or an alternative spec to describe that and I mean apparently people think that this as it exists is sufficient for some of their use cases yeah Colin Perkins I think it depends what you\u0027re using it so exactly if the idea is just that you you want to filter out particular layer clarity then this works great if you want to do some sort of fancy drop preference thing and no statistics I mean if you wanted to filter out a thicker layer you couldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:42",
    "text": "we need to know what the layer is or have some notion of what the areas to decide that that\u0027s a reasonable thing to do you know so either you have to do that by observing the stream or having some upfront knowledge about the stream which we\u0027re not specifying at the moment yeah I mean I sort of assumed that a lot of the use cases where you know what what layers exist and you just want the marking so you can strip them out entirely for a gateway to a particular set of devices that don\u0027t support it and for that sort of use case I would think this would work brilliantly for things where you\u0027re trying to do prioritize drops and decide which things to drop and at which rates you\u0027ve been you need to know more about how many things are in each layer and seat seating gonna be yeah the amount of drop rates of show so one more thing from running stress okay so you think that for this draft we don\u0027t that\u0027s that\u0027s a comment more on Ronny\u0027s traffic for this draft you think we\u0027re good or good enough or good enough for now I think this draft is good enough for now okay I mean I mean the comment from Ronnie seems to be that you need this that information for this draft and I\u0027m not sure you do but I think you could be do for Ravi stuff okay so that sounded to me like we didn\u0027t have any consensus to add any more text to your draft oh and then there was some feeling that we didn\u0027t need to so I\u0027ve got to go with that unless somebody screams so yeah so I think back to what we were saying just try to they try to get that revised written out and also you know precisly call out in the list the changes you made so that people can review them and see whether they agree with them or think we need more calm more changes or a new last call or anything like that okay and set it for the terrace lights guess that Celeste years up here so next is Colin with feedback you guys can call back hi okay I\u0027m Colin Perkins yeah we\u0027re trying to figure out how one actually gets this properly full screen here does anybody know how to use Chrome really I should get Justin to come up here it\u0027s his fault oh I see how it even said there\u0027s even a little bit okay that\u0027s that\u0027s cutting the pie oh you know because I had this problem earlier today actually that might be that your aspect ratio doesn\u0027t match the aspect ratio of a Chromebook that could be yes yes yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:46",
    "text": "perfect let\u0027s leave it like that okay all right next slide okay we\u0027ll just scroll what\u0027s good enough right so this is the conditioner of feedback format which we discussed on the last meeting and we\u0027ve discussed in the our MCAT group a couple of times main thing that\u0027s happened is we got some comments on the our MCAT mailing list from Sergio and neurosis and comments from the previous I TF which we we only just got around to incorporating and the zero to version which was submitted yesterday because I\u0027m disorganized inferior dresses these comments next slide please most of the changes are actually pretty straightforward those some clarifications that the timestamps which are in CP formats time stamps of the use the same clock as those in the sender report packets and it used to say send the reports or receive a report and then someone pointed out the receiver reports don\u0027t have such NCP for that time step so we can fix that maybe you don\u0027t need to say this but there is an X R that has them do yes so we I suppose we could say that but I\u0027m not sure it matters it\u0027s certainly the same clock as we used in send reports which is the main thing the the format ending sequence numbers Sergio suggested that rather than reporting the ending sequence number if we report the M sequence number plus 1 that would simplify his implementation and in addition it would allow us to report those two fields with the same value to signal but no packets were received in the interval and you can infer that from the receiver reports but it makes the code easier if it\u0027s all in the same block without eggs are immature around didn\u0027t cover any ever report block as well as else was currently in the draft there was also a comment and Varun remembered this from someone said it won the previous meetings and I forget who it was that maybe we should report beginning sequence number 11 instead of that and that which is the last report length of 0 to indicate my packets received and to me that actually sounds sounds cleaner so I would have suggest we change to beginning sequence number on the land I\u0027m not sure it matters that much anyone hasn\u0027t onions information on equal one so yeah it\u0027s just different ways of yeah and I\u0027d leave this to my judgments is to do it but if anyone who\u0027s thinking of implementing it has really strong opinions then let me know but I don\u0027t think it matters that much to be honest if not next slide okay the some text in the draft that says if the you don\u0027t accept a report where the sequence number space jumps by more than a quarter of the the sequence number range as a way of a sort of crude check that the report is valid and sort of in window and the latest version adds some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:47",
    "text": "text say well okay if you\u0027re not if you\u0027re ignoring things where the sequence numbers have jumped a significant amount that\u0027s fine but maybe that actually has been an outage so if the outage has been long enough that it\u0027s reasonable that it could have jumped that much then don\u0027t ignore it it\u0027s a sort of thing you have to implement anyway to make a robust implementation I\u0027m trying to phrase that in a you know a way which suggests the right thing to do if the phrasing is clear that\u0027s great if you read it and find that phrasing confusing then please suggest for all summative phrases or tell me what you think is unclear about it in addition we put a note that you shouldn\u0027t have more than you shouldn\u0027t report on more than the course or the sequence number space in each packets which is something Sergio what would be worth clarifying in practice you couldn\u0027t anyway because the pack is some thickness and if we change if we change to the length field you can see either because the length is the 16 bits oh yeah the wealthier the packets won\u0027t be big enough in arc so doesn\u0027t RTP double grams yeah it might matter if you\u0027re if you are talking of a TCP okay next slide okay the other thing we did was update the ionic considerations we realized there was a registration missing those also comments at the previous meeting that we needed SDP signaling and since this is a congestion control feedback block so since this is an ACK on a TCP back feedback thing there is already a an SDP mechanism defined to do that we just needed to register them value to go in it and we add that registration and that lets you use the existing mechanism defined in RFC four five eight five to signal or this is press which is just the usual sdp attributes and the offer answer business next slide and that\u0027s it I think this is essentially done I think probably the right thing to do is change it to beginning sequence number 11 the beginning and ending sequence numbers but with that change made I think there are then no open issues so I would encourage people to review the draft and get feedback and implement it preferably I\u0027m yeah I do feel like this is something where it would be a lot more con I guess we\u0027ve got one implementation now in a simulator which is where we got served us feedback which was a good thing but I\u0027d obviously be a lot happier if we had this in actual running code so that we could see though you know does this actually work with you know congestion algorithms the wad on the actual internet you know is the bandwidth of the feedback itself reasonable in all the use cases people want you know is this basically a sensible and so there\u0027s a draft in our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:48",
    "text": "MCAT which does that bandwidth analysis or some simple cases and I have dated that draft to match what\u0027s in there yeah I mean dough is but you know I think I mean there\u0027s obviously some cases now all of the cases yeah now this is one thing in the permutation there\u0027s another question so I know we had some sort of discussion I don\u0027t know if anybody be interested in this they\u0027re thought of maybe trying to do I would both for our MCAT and for this doing maybe some hackathon work at the next IETF anybody that\u0027s interested in that would anybody be interested in anything like that or know anybody who would or have these students you could recruit or do it to do that I see somebody making big gestures but I don\u0027t know um we also have we do have two browser implementation people sitting here in the room I don\u0027t know if either of them or look even look at this at all yet to see what how it would be like to hook up to there control algorithms neither nil star Justin is jumping to the mic mainly naming and shaming him works fast so I can Justin Uberti Google on I confess you know some ignorant seer how does this compare to the you know Stephane homers you know CeCe feedback message no I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s more I think it doesn\u0027t require the forward path at our extension you it\u0027s a little more verbose than the reverse path by sped but saves in the faux on the media path and requires a little bit more bookkeeping on the sender basis because rather than having an additional sequence number for every packet sent across all sources who have you basically report back on this for this source these sequence numbers were received with this sort of sees the ghost numbers were received which I guess it keeps the media pack it\u0027s smaller and also will generalize better to if you ever want to do actual multi-plane congestion control because I help you so yes so rather than putting an extra sequence number in which I think that one did as a header extension this uses the existing sequence numbers so yeah it makes the forward packets smaller and it fits with the way RTP works perhaps a little more naturally but it means you\u0027ve got a little bit more bookkeeping as Jonathan says but I mean I would say suspect if you\u0027re already using the Homer feedback converting it to use this would be just slight changes in some data structures but other than that probably pretty similar I guess the real question is like if you already have one you know what would one be looking for like where does the worker want to produce the Brooklyn area is a specific recommendation of one of these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:48",
    "text": "particular message P mount for both formats that everyone should use or should we not so the markets speak so I mean I think that the intention is that this would be the general feedback message I\u0027m obviously you know the existing drafts the existing implementations probably aren\u0027t going to go away until you know but I think the idea being this is something that was designed to work for all of the candidates feedback all of the cabinet congestion control algorithms that are MCAT is looking at and that kind of inputs from all of those I believe and then the idea being that then even if people using entirely disparate potential algorithms they could use any of these feedback mechanism they could interoperate with these this feedback message specifically this being the one with the IETF recommends I mean what it reports is the issue of back a couple slides I mean it\u0027s reporting the the lost packets and and the rival yeah yeah so so uh each packet it reports whether it was received or not what the ec n marks were and when when it was received and it\u0027s not a particularly optimized format and that there are ways of optimizing it my analysis for the kit that scenarios I looked at shows that optimizing it doesn\u0027t help you a lot because the overhead of the year the UDP packets and the sender reports and everything else as go in the packet is so much that if even if you have the size of this it doesn\u0027t say for significant amount so it didn\u0027t seem worth optimizing it but we can optimize it if if people care I guess the point is like if we actually appointed this will be expect to see any difference in performance well it will it will do the same thing as your current mechanism and all with all the different mechanisms everyone else is doing right it\u0027s just reporting the same information in it just gives you more hope of interrupting with more people I think it\u0027s the idea and and being able to use your mechanism or mechanisms you have the more likely it is that you\u0027ll find one in common with somebody else right it sort of feels like we as a working group to put our weight behind one if there\u0027s not an idea we\u0027re way behind this one the other ones we\u0027re all individual submission drafts which never got traction I see I think it\u0027s important that these working groups put themselves more in the shoes of somebody trying to convince their boss they should allocate time to do this so I\u0027ve been in that position and I\u0027ve been asked some very uncomfortable questions like the ones that Justin just asked and I didn\u0027t have really convincing answers and you know having been through the situation where people say oh the way to get better in our ability is through a new standard I never actually had that achieve better "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:48",
    "text": "interoperability fixing existing stuff and doing Interop that generally does actually produce better interoperability so I can I can tell you that I would love if there was something in this document that said here you know we looked at all these different things and there\u0027s some convincing reason to do this right so I just like I\u0027ve been in that position and it\u0027s been it\u0027s not been a good conversation I haven\u0027t been able to come up with so I think the technical reason to do this compared to the other mechanism is that this fits the way RTP does sources and sequence numbers better therefore it\u0027s more likely to be future proof for future extensions now if you if you believe what we have in WebRTC is the be-all and end-all and is not going to change and we\u0027re never going to want to extend it I think what you have will work will work if we want to extend things I think this fits the way RTP does sources and sequencing on bring better and therefore is more likely to fit with future extensions and given that we have already been bit with a number of problems building web as you see with the definition of sessions and multiplexing and all of that mess with bundle because people had built things in a way which wasn\u0027t very future proof maybe we should learn from that and try and move to something that\u0027s a little it\u0027s also truth does work I mean again not surround property itself but work could work for more RTP topologies like this would be not unreasonable for our to be multicast I mean nobody has a multicast just control algorithm yet but I think there\u0027s nothing about this protocol that doesn\u0027t make sense but in terms of information it\u0027s reporting same information in a different way yes it will give you the same behavior I personally believe it\u0027s more future-proof fellows to apologize for not having checked with Hill mayor again but last time I talked to him about this one he said that converting to the new form would not be a bad thing not not would not be a hard thing at all it has the information that he needs that\u0027s the critical part I mean I understand of course of course if if there are more browsers that can generate this format them can generate the format that Chrome is currently using them Chrome will be happier new tamiya Mozilla I guess since we don\u0027t implement the non standardized version we would rather implement a standardized version and the problem is well it doesn\u0027t it doesn\u0027t matter because what\u0027s happened is there\u0027ll be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:49",
    "text": "people who\u0027ll do the old one and we\u0027ll have them in mobile apps that will ship for the next five years and there\u0027s yeah I know and you know what that conversation is like which basically means you\u0027ll have to do the old one and you\u0027ll have to do the new one and you\u0027ll have to negotiate between them and make sure that both of them will operate sensibly oh you\u0027ll do what you do now and just not be congestion control those devices now there everyone has gone astray terrible thing so anyway it just it creates a ton of complexity to have to do this and be backward compatible and anyway it\u0027s kind of an it\u0027s kind of a nightmare particularly for testing but for now what you\u0027re saying then is basically I should implement the Google version and not care about the standard you pretty much have to do the Google one because that\u0027s out there and you\u0027ll probably have spend the next year and a half fixing all the bugs and getting it to work and then you\u0027ll be asking the same questions that we just asked why do I have to do this new thing and what do I get out of it and your boss will have will ask you some very hard questions and how much time you just spent getting the old one to work some but I think the other point which i think is relates to what Harold said about about what he thought that Walmart said is that the difference between implementing this and implementing the hallmark feedback is essentially what what you\u0027re you know whether your hash table keys or 16 bits or 48 bits you know whether you\u0027re indexing by a new sequence number or SSRC and RTP sequence number other than that and though obviously the factorization d packetization but everything else is exactly the same so at which point you know most of the hard work which is actually writing a control logarithm is the same okay Cullens let\u0027s go I mean I I hear what you\u0027re saying but I sort of disagree that you\u0027ll need to implement both I think you\u0027ll usually I mean you\u0027ve gotten five years of shipping without implementing any so I don\u0027t really see this being real high on the priority list to go implement right away so you might you know I think of all the browser vendors agreed upon which one they were going to implement preferably using a standards process to do that but that would be great and that you probably don\u0027t need to implement all the old ones you could probably get away with implementing the one that a bunch of people can decide to go forward with I\u0027m not arguing which one that one is but that would be the really key thing to me is let\u0027s come down on one of those and not to Justin Uberti I mean practically speaking you know people are gonna basically set a flag and live web RTC to basically enable like format one or format two so I can negotiate both and see why not I mean you there must be a good gazillion oh there\u0027s already at least three different you you know mutually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:49",
    "text": "exclusive congestion algorithms be negotiated the crow are in there yeah but I good although it\u0027s definitely too there\u0027s the homework feedback and there\u0027s the the old oh yeah yes yeah absolutely sequence number two fire three yeah it\u0027s their 2.5 amazed you know anyway III think you know the question for the chrome team is like okay is this something that we think is a natural solution for our stuff anyway and if we do make this you know go in this direction then I think that\u0027ll probably everyone else you just know web RTC will follow just because it\u0027ll not require five months of button fixing it\u0027ll be like well do the five lines of bug fixing and then like other folks I have to admit mostly just uh you know turn it on so we can kinda look into it and get back all right all right so so yeah I think from a ITF point of view let\u0027s let\u0027s do the option fixing the draftees clicking straight phone yeah the graphics way forward well I\u0027m with people and clemency is that yeah and I think you know at least I mean if you at least like have your implementers look at it like if you feel like I said have if you think stuff I looked at it in the past if you could look at it again and say you know yes this is easier oh my god my hair is on fire and let us know why his hair is on fire that would be helpful just to speed that along there is there like a place where like this or a bake-off of like what are the benefits are clearly enumerated I mean the the benefits of the effort approach if I\u0027m remembering rights and it\u0027s been a while since I\u0027ve read the spec for the year I mean I heard you before I just wonder if they\u0027re written down somewhere that like you know Stefan and I and how I can sit down go over I I\u0027m not sure they\u0027re written them we discussed them in one of the previous meetings so they\u0027re probably in the minutes if I\u0027m remembering right it\u0027s that it reports on ACN and I don\u0027t think the other one does and that it fits the way we do sequence numbering and SSRC SNR CP better which i think is just a lot cleaner and a lot more future proof it\u0027s not like there\u0027s some trade-offs of what house we put on the wire in terms of sequence number and everything like that and I\u0027m just wondering surname potential performance related trade-offs here I mean in terms of what goes on the wire it makes the RTP packets smaller because you don\u0027t need the header extension CP is fractionally bigger but read you know given that the rtcp is less happens less often than the RTP I think that property shares out yes by a wash okay my main question is just are there going to be any potential surprises of performance due to the fact that we don\u0027t have the cobble sequence number anymore no because I mean I think what you did before was just you use the global sequence number and you work at a fraction loss based on that and what you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:51",
    "text": "would do this time is you would look at okay for this SLC we see this many you know this many packets ends and this may lost and for this SSE we see the same fraction we add them up and if you want to implement it internally as you maintain that you\u0027re you know internally who have a global seat you have a global sequence number you remember what SRC and RTV so you guys ever do is for each one then you get the feedback back you look that up in your hash table map it back and run the exact same algorithm that\u0027s a perfectly reasonable implementation okay I actually think it\u0027s much simpler than that yeah you look it up you versus I see one you\u0027ve lost this fraction you\u0027ve lost six out of the thunder thousand packets for SSRC two year was one out of a thousand packets that gives you seven out of two thousand and that gives you your lost fraction all right well rather than just rip directly reporting you\u0027ve lost seven out of which does give you then more fine-grained information more easily in case that\u0027s useful well think of us define and see if you know we can make you know some statement regarding our plans okay okay now where\u0027s fullscreen because it\u0027s a power play all right they\u0027re here okay yeah so a - Westland I\u0027m talks a speaking for the other waters about what we done lately with the guidelines for using the multiplexing features of RTP and this is to support the multiple media streams so this is the guidance documents we\u0027re up to version oh six so next slide well you can go you can skip the outline so it\u0027s a short presentation well there being a lots of editorial changes in the latest version and you will definitely see that if you do look at it if but I have a we worked on improving the use of the RTP taxonomy RFC 76 56 we done some significant changes around the descriptions of the RTP sessions the synchronization source and in the pale RTP payload type description there is some changes around there the binding the related sources and we looked a bit more into clarifying some of the RTP translator in to working there also clear in the multicast related stuff about talking both about a SMS SM differences also what we call "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:53",
    "text": "design choices these broad categories of choices between how you put in multiple media streams in one session among in in having them in the same session in multiple sessions is that drawing in so that\u0027s focused a bit being focused on on on the most relevant differences and some of them really not meaningful ones has been removed so I may also improve the security considerations discussion so next so it\u0027s documents open issues that we had as in the other team we had some discussion on what\u0027s currently is written around our TP sinks since I have to be sources we had a discussion yesterday around this and and our proposal is basically to work more around the use of our to be participants so a sink would be basically could be described as an RTP participant in an RTP session that receives RTP data packets something along that line we gonna words miss this further as we do the updates another issue we had was in the issue list in the draft was around msid and actually our suggestions is actually to remove a discussion of msid because it\u0027s no longer really it\u0027s a very RTC web specific binding of media tracks to media streams and it\u0027s really not obvious that it\u0027s applicable in general so our suggestion here is to remove it and also for improving these design choices and and going from one we are actually going to revert the order of the subsections and try to find better labels of what we call them but that\u0027s basically what you see as the main things there we can take the next slide the rest is primarily after fixing these kind of open issues there\u0027s some addition I think editorial improvements we can do the document but really the goal should be that by the next version in time for the next before they meet next meeting should have be ready actual working plus call it\u0027s time to finish this document it\u0027s and I don\u0027t I think we\u0027re getting there it\u0027s so any comments questions etc okay good I will continue then on so when when we think you left an expert for Bangkok alright so I think we need to get started with early reaction because it\u0027s gonna take a few I think rounds between up between our editors as authors to agree on on the editorial "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:54",
    "text": "changes and I know none of your work in all this no definitely not so it\u0027s gonna be we have a September and October anything for doing this service hi I\u0027m Ronnie event this is the frame marking a priority marking draft that it\u0027s in now in version the individual version is version zero - oops so so it is priority value for the non-scalable stream droppable frame it\u0027s a applicable to a single RTP stream and not for comparing between multiple stream so it allows the middle box to discard part of all of the discardable frame is marked by the encoder it\u0027s provided more option for changing the bitrate on congestion and it\u0027s a lot of differentiation between reference and non reference be frame to drop to provide different priorities to allow to drop first non-reference be frame and also to drop a p frame that are closer to the end of the group of GOP is better than dropping one at the beginning and can be marked as droppable with lowest priority the the things that we we believe is I looked at to if we can signal what is there was a question about how if you can figure out how we can figure out how much we are there from each priority level in terms of the ratio between them so I looked at trying to say to provide some signaling and the only idea I had about it was to add some extension attribute because I couldn\u0027t edit there and then it would be to offer mutually exclusive which is very complicated I didn\u0027t know make sense to do that in the first place and we discussed it internally because we are using that and the way currently we are doing that is we are doing estimation based on history about how many RTP packets are in each priority we have to take into account this is mostly done in in streaming application where the structure is very fixed like you know how many either but the iframe befriend and befriend the structure is repeatedly all the time so at least you know the general structure is well known in those type of applications next slide hey so the solution is just cleared to bits from the fall must be zero bits when zero does them because if we have been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:55",
    "text": "the non-scalable case the bits that are not that are must be 0 so we are suggesting to use two of them to provide priority where 0 0 is the highest priority which will keep it as it is today and the 1 1 would be the lowest priority so if you don\u0027t support it then the 0 0 this work even if priority is present but not supported by the needle box and it doesn\u0027t break an inter ability with the current frame marketing proposal the thing that we discussed in the past is that at least we won\u0027t do anything with that until we finish the the frame marking and then we can decide to do it as a second document afterwards so we\u0027re still waiting for the D so I don\u0027t think we need to adopt it now but we can look at it after they the frame marking is it will go to publication this is primarily for streaming which we probably don\u0027t really have so much constituency for but if anybody is anybody interested in this work I mean then you have people outside our way we are doing it internally I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s done outside we didn\u0027t check there but I know that internally we are doing it with testing and we are using that internally and in most cases are showing on the Wi-Fi connection router because that\u0027s where we have some problem when you go inside this congestion inside the the home so that\u0027s how it\u0027s being used all right so I guess you know defer this until remarking is finally done which it\u0027s gonna happen real soon right boys enough you know he\u0027s he\u0027s here now okay didn\u0027t sink oh yeah you see snuck in the back I don\u0027t know where he was he was there he was traveling fast from home yeah it\u0027s very efficient yeah okay all right so I think I think we\u0027re not finished I said something about the payloads yeah so as I\u0027m staying as long as I\u0027m standing here in payload that we know is here we are trying to finish the the one that\u0027s the RTC Webb isn\u0027t listed on see Webb is the flexible FAC I hope more supposed to provide based on comments than made by a Magnus and I hope that Steve will also try to give it a last look because he gave a lot of comments on the first working class call so we try to finish it as soon as possible all right well that\u0027s no I just submitted a revision that has all the changes for Magnus and quite a few more changes so I think it would really be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:56",
    "text": "good for anyone that reviewed their earlier versions of the document so look at it again a lot of changes in sections four and six where people were complaining about confusion so the layouts of the format\u0027s are now more clearly spelled out in recovery procedures and welcome so maybe I should do another working book last call okay so I\u0027ll do another working fresco short a short one but I hope people now I mean as long as the people are here I hope I think that please do review it once this comes on the in the tools I mean the UM be on the website and provide feedback because we want to finish with it we don\u0027t want to be last year we have our director yeah this has been I\u0027m just making sure everyone has a payload hat sound flag and glare at everyone the this last time around the worker last call the feedback came in slowly and such and we really need to turn this around so I please please and I appreciate that Moses turning things around quickly please please everyone else also turn around quickly okay so and you know if there\u0027s a way that wants to change is there in there that\u0027s working well Carl can be scoped to the changes as opposed to everything that might be a good thing but at least what I did I tried to verify that it addresses the comments that I saw on the least in the version personally to verify and I hope now that and just wait for Steve you\u0027ll do that so I\u0027ll wait for Steve to look at it and Magnus will have to look at see that his comment is addressed and I think that\u0027s will cover that so youth ages in Nara for weary path count we were because there are changes I mean there changes in the structure so that that technical not not basically editorial as far as I understand from from for more so we need to have whatever he Guk last call if it\u0027s technical changes okay right it\u0027s it\u0027s not a technical right to changes I think it\u0027s the the it\u0027s the chair is call on how material the changes are yeah yeah but I mean you can make the call along okay okay okay there were mostly clarification so the wording confused people was unclear so we clarified a lot of the the formats so restructuring of the of the presentation of the formats not the actual course there was one technical change that Magnus suggested that the authors agreed with which was changing the retransmission format to just change the meaning of one of the bits so previously defined that the F bit was was one now it\u0027s redefined to be zero just makes it simpler for copying the the RTP packet as is to retransmit it okay so that\u0027s one technical change okay so so I\u0027ll just wait for just well please do the reviews and then we say the publication there\u0027s there\u0027s other payload there\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:58",
    "text": "payload that which is working a blast cold but it\u0027s really getting reviewed by outsiders from from here who are interested in this codec so we got refused on that and I did a review to verify that today it\u0027s correct according to the structure of the document and they should surprise need to bring another version and that\u0027s the Tetra one you could develop your cover okay and then Justin mio UD peanut mmm and Justin and I are you finishing dp9 and we will try to nag each other to do that I\u0027m not the ones that are nothing stealing what Hugh glass cold that\u0027s not it\u0027s your problem I figure we\u0027ve got multiple liver operable imitations we should actually polish the draft okay so you just left us no only lift the chairs no I mean that you\u0027re it\u0027s ready and we try a Ali\u0027s also caught I don\u0027t remember anything else AVT you related to buddy wants to talk about if not you can go and I don\u0027t know look at the a mrw they have poster presentations or something thank you all for coming and seeing you as individuals the rest of the weekend as a working group it back up yes yes yeah yeah oh yeah I know the top obviously it\u0027s there all that you know it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to come in [Music] "
  }
]