[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "appears to be getting close time I I posted the agenda in the chat and boy did the format and get whacked up a couple more people still popping in give a minute or two more so Russ and I I believe were both in the note taking tool along with some others it would be oh so helpful if someone would take the lead on taking some notes you have many assistance it appears in the note taking tool as well uh yeah hi this is Rich I'll do it thank you sir just just earn yourself an ident of choice at the next meeting carsten are you having trouble with Meo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "yes I'm still trying to find out how I can we heard you for whatever that's worth yes Ross was muted and is I don't see Jay in the room I was expecting to be here he sent a note uh to me that he will miss when I resent the agenda hi there hi join seem to be slowing down so maybe we better get G yeah sounds like a plan all right well uh R kindly posted the agenda in the chat and it is now copied into the notetaking tool if you are playing along and we do appreciate if you do play along um so the main order of business for today is to get straight what it is the group thinks it's doing with the uh implemented document because the conversation on the list seems to be jumping around in ways"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "that your chairs did not expect um and so before before we jump into that just remind people we are not an ITF working group but we are following the note well yes so please do um comport yourselves with the same rules that we apply to most ITF meetings you have questions about what those are please let your chairs know we have are happy to point them out to you um so I don't know Russ how do you want to handle this particular discussion well I I think the first thing is we should uh look at ecker's description of defining one and two completing the documentation uh of the current implemented tool as one and two being creating a document of the desired grammar if those uh are not the desired work products that we have a very much different conversation to have so I'd like to start confirming that that's what people think we want to do and I've noticed my uh screen is blinking red off and on so I'm going to turn the camera off and your mic is clipping a bit as well you might want to turn down your gain a bit okay I could do that so does anybody want to jump in or let's let's start with an easier question if folks don't like the way Russ put it does anybody disagree with the view that those are our two intended work products"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:03",
    "text": "I I know this is a terribly shy group of humans here carsten why don't you start us off yeah I hope you can hear me well because I'm not at my usual workstation yep doing fine um great um I I see our work as a process and not as two product so I'm I'm having a hard time following this part of the discussion but uh I think I do agree that we want to complete the the documentation of of the production uh RFC XML that we are using today and that we want to to use our wonderful discussion we have had to identify the um highest importance items that we want to get fixed in in the XML form but of course we have 25 other things we we need to do but with respect to vocabulary I think those are the things we want to do now and to repeat for Colin um ah there Robert was nice enough to paste it into the chat yes task one completing documentation of what's currently implemented in the tool task two creating a document of the desired grammar Paul our fearless document editor has jumped yes sir so we just finished putting out all of the queries and we got I I was surprised that some of the responses um not that I hate this that's that was expected but some of the responses are that's not new and so we need to go back and check those but some of the responses were that's possible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "but the RPC is not doing it therefore we shouldn't document it and um I have a concern about that which is we are then going to Rat Hole again so I'm as co-author and I will speak for John because he loves me to speak for him um John John LaVine that is clemon never likes it when I speak for him and I never like it when he speaks for me um we're happy to do whatever the working group wants but we don't want to start doing a bunch of work and having you all change your mind again because if the work we're doing involves ripping something out and then you change your mind it's a buttload harder for us so I would like more of a statement of work rather than completing the documentation of what is currently implemented in the tool so there's lots of tools involved here um and some of the tools are just checking some of them are in fact being used to produce PDF text in HTML we need a little bit more definition here of what is what that is but if we have that definition sure this seems just fine okay um that helped thank you Julian you're up hello can you hear me just fine okay so um I wanted to give a perspective of what might happens from the point of view of somebody who might be responsible for some of the confusion because um I have to admit that at some points in the past I most be tuned out of the discussion because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "it was about how this group was going to things instead of actually doing them so once Paul posted Paul posted the actual list of things he was interested in on feedback I of course jumped in and provided feedback no matter whether it was the feedback that was currently being asked for so I think the same thing might might have happened to other to other people as well so it's not that this was on purpose it was just a natural thing to happen when people didn't stopped paying attention and now were actually asked concrete questions so that's that's what happened for me and maybe this the same thing happened for others as well fair enough and and so I will take take it that your response to the question is um for some version of those two work products process-wise you're fine it's just that you may have been contributing in a way that did not exactly follow that process yeah and just to make sure the list of two things that the work that the group actually wants to ship I totally agree with good okay eer uh yes so I largely agree with this list as well as I suggested it um uh I do see think there might I do think that um there is a sort of um some ambiguity about the second work product namely that I know people have talked about doing like major revisions of XML V3 um but I think that like as an intermediate work product what we want to do is um assess whether any whe whether the the list of things that are in as implemented but not in 7991 are things we want on a case-by casee basis without like so like you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "know so so I mean there's a there's a you know there's there's a a food tag and we're like okay we like the food tag we're keeping it or we don't like the food tag and we're throwing away we're deprecating it or we don't like the food tag and we but we have to replace it with a bar tag or all three separate things and that's like different as opposed to like no we decided that actually we're converting to S expressions or something um or we're doing radical re architecture so I think we just I think like you know the the the the way I think about this is what we're trying to do is clean up is backfill mistakes that made and then um and then we can move forward from there um I was hope I see Paul's the queue um um maybe hoping we jump the queue or we can wait for it Paul you sort have said something about um uh things that were technically possible the RPC wasn't doing was it was do you mean like there's a tag or an affordance and XML RSC with the RPC doesn't use it even if other people do they take it out is that what you mean yes so and I think that that and that was pointed out and and I I did not keep close notes yet um and if it turns out that list is zero great but yeah I I was talking about when people said that's not true and I was like okay and then we can look at that later for what it's worth my view on this I think is is roughly what Martin Thompson sort of been saying which is our job is specifi the format that is used to publish rfc's and so if it's a practical matter that um even if it is in in the tool but the RPC and never publish RFC with it and no one intends to then I think it doesn't really exist um for the purpose of this discussion other people might feel differently of course wait eer don't wait eer don't go away if that is the case where someone said well where we discovered that there is an addition to 7991 that is in this list and the RPC is not doing it either because they're holding their nose or they just haven't had an opportunity what would you propose we do for this next document would you say we take it out because it hasn't been put"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "in an RFC or we leave it in because it's been discussed I would take it out because I claim that I claim it doesn't exist for the purpose of rfc's thank you all right Robert you're up um I think both Hecker and and Paul should stay close to the mic um I think implicit in what I just heard is that you are then asking the RPC to not use these things that they have not yet used if they exist is that true I think it would be slightly better but I'm not going to get B out of shape better it one way the other so would you an alternative to taking it out would be shoving them in a section of the document that says and these exist but were not used um would that be harmful I I don't think so um I guess I guess I think what would be harmful obviously would be say if we have a document this archival document that says these aren't used and that they're used right that'd be bad but no I like like someone like just to like try to expand the aperture a little bit if someone said like actually I feel strongly they should be in the document because they're in X RC at some point even though they were never used I'm not GNA like lie down on the road you know um I don't feel WR like that piece at all yeah yeah I am definitely more interested in in having having a documentation of of the bits that we're leaving around that we're calling rfc's and I am documenting you know the possible set of bits that the XML to RSC code could generate um um I would like to ask that as we nail this down we make sure that we make it easier and not harder to start changing SML to RSC and changing it sooner rather"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "than later uh do you want to go down that path a little further what do you mean by that so we have um two two things there are things going into bucket two that we think are bugs like Doc name which is a pretty important bug and the address tupal which I think we've got pretty much Universal agreement that doc name is is a is a horrible bug and then we've got mostly agreement that what was happening in address was a bad idea and that we need to quit it um I would like for us to find a path that lets us make these changes to XML to RFC and change what is coming out in future rfc's early and not necessarily wait until we publish an output of two now I'm not going to die on that hill but also if we get to the end of one but not to the end of two and the not use as universally agreed that we're not going to use if it would ease us from a maintenance burden to remove it before we got to the end of two I would like to be able to do that got it got it that makes sense all right John cson I'm going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "uh find myself despite Paul's disclaimers agreeing with him however novel that may be um uh I think we need to get a document of what we have as implemented where what the words as implemented mean are as implemented uh rather than discussing what has been used what has not been used what should be used what shouldn't be used and whether or not it's Tuesday or Wednesday and anything else along those lines uh I think we have a straightforward project of documented what's documenting what's implemented and I think we got to get that done uh I think following that some of Paul's comments and several of Roberts suggest what I fear is a 1.5 independent of your one point of your 2.0 and one of your one and two classification and that is that once we have the as implemented document on the table and we agree that that's what's implemented that we then go have the discussion of things which were implemented which shouldn't have been things which the RPC is horribly wishing had been implemented um uh and the rest of the things which go into I think uh Robert's suggestion about getting the stage where we understand or they understand what should be put in XML RFC or taken out of it or put in with warnings or whatever else along those lines and I hope we can do I hope we can get from one to two without doing that intermediate stage but if the amount of argumentation and quibbling and going back and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "forth that I've seen over should this be there or should this not be there is indicative we may need that an immediate stage and to use a different version of what Julian had to say I'm finding myself tuning in out of this group largely because when we get long threads of comments and counter comments among a relatively small number of people about topics which my gut tells me either don't make any difference or are part of either the 1.5 or the 2.0 debate but certainly not the 1.0 debate um I tune out and I suspect I'm not the only one fair enough no uh appreciated that actually makes a reasonable amount of sense um I'm hearing from different Corners that two should be closer to what you're calling 1.5 or closer to some Grand uh uh discussed new thing and I think that's proba deciding what that is is probably a Next Step um getting the division right I think is probably uh in in indeed and a different way of making my comment is that if we can't agree what is really about then argument for 1.5 got it and in particular um I'm concerned about whether as far as two is concerned the goal of this group is to produce a document and a specification which is targeted to those people who For Better or Worse are actually writing in the RFC XML language which we still have specifications cage you to do or a or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "something which is much closer to a document production language for use exclusively for the RPC and I hope we can avoid having that conversation today but I think that conversation is becomes critical to understanding what two is about and again if we need a 1.5 to help us get there or we need a 1.5 because that's going to take us forever then I think we really ought to be considering 1.5 all right thank you Paul you are up and last in the queue uh I'm last in the queue for now but I've got four things so I suspect other people will jump in um Clon I was unfortunately agreeing with you right up until almost the last moment when you said I hope we don't need to talk about that topic today that topic being the parts of the vocabulary that are only for um draft authors not for the RPC I believe and and again I'm saying this in surprise I believe we do need to talk about that before we finish the as implemented because some of the things that people are saying aren't used by the RPC they're completely correct they aren't used by the RPC but they are used by authors I don't have a reference for how we go but I believe that is absolutely a topic that many people were commenting on in the last couple of weeks as I was putting those things out and therefore we need to decide that before we know what the end of the as implemented document is uh curiously enough uh we're again mostly in agreement yeah yeah no I I agree I I thought so that's why I just you know you said you hope we don't talk"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "about it today I'm not saying we should finish it today but we do need to have this discussion real soon now and I I wouldn't have said that a month ago it is certainly the case that if our decision is going to be that the only thing this working group cares about is the publication form rather than anything which authors use to communicate the working groups in the review process say then again using my 1.5 metaphor there are probably some things that as implemented document which we ought to publicly told our noses about um uh however I think the as implemented document ought to reflect what's implemented I think that's very nearly an Axor on and that um and that these discussions about what should be added and what should be taken out are a discussion some later phase what it's two or 1.2 and we better get on that in a hurry if we're really going to say things like the RPC doesn't use that and therefore we shouldn't be in the language or therefore bugs in XML to RFC which involveed that shouldn't be fixed because they're irrelevant or anything else which takes us down that path okay great so we are in agreement on that um uh that was only one of my points um but that my camera off again okay that doves tailes into a second one which has come up occasionally and um affects our whole process of doing this as implemented um and particularly in as implemented for things that are not in the RPC which is some people say more than once oh this isn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "policy and this working group is only supposed to be working on policy about our RFC publication um and I would I would be very bummed for us to spend a bunch more time and then have the should we have spent this time uh discussion come up I would and and I would like it to come up and be resolved quickly I want the chairs to keep focus on it in one thread in a particularly a thread that might have the word policy in the subject not because it it has come up on some of the random things that I was putting up like you know lists have tea and you like whatever and then so I I think we need to do that and part of that discussion has to be what John and I were just talking about which is is it it accept is it even acceptable for us to talk about parts of the grammar that don't affect RFC publication namely they affect the input to the RFC series don't have a strong opinion I bet that I will but I don't have one now um I've got two more let me just before they fall out of my brain um let me just make the comment and Russ can obviously disagree with me if he wants um my sense from the beginning was that we decided that the grammar itself was in scope as a policy issue maybe on the fuzzy end of what those words mean but we are going to work on that and um you know certainly as implemented is in scope and we are working on it um and you wouldn't normally call that polic we may get to a point in the number two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "document where we say well this should or should not fall within the scope of the working group R well I I think we we're in agreement so let's just move on but I thought we say that just move on Pete I want you to say that on the list and to be as as un fuzz I I like your fuzz but to be as unfuzzying and make it as a chair statement so that if someone disagrees it could come to the list and if they disagree with the chair statement they can go to you know the higher Powers but I would like that as a preemptive shut up we don't want to talk about this or as a you get to talk about it for a week and then you don't get to talk about it because it'll be easy for it to come up and again in in the example that people brought up that John and I were just talking about how can you have this working group talking about a policy for something that is not about the rfc's themselves that that they are about drafts it's a reasonable question but I and I think you have a reasonable answer but I want that out there okay I'm sorry wearing my co-author hat and my co-author who doesn't want to waste his time hat I want you I want you like saying that as chairs um third topic is one that I think is easy to deal with but again it came up a bunch during this you know the other topics is the prep tool which is a document which is one of the tool so when we say what is the RPC using we know they're using prep tool because if you look at any of the elements they've got a bunch of crap in them and they have a bunch of crap because the prep tool told them they had to put the crap in and as Martin Thompson who's not on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "the call said to me sometime last week he goes God that was a stupid mistake I want to know who did it and I said um me so I mean Joe and I but that we did make that mistake that's important because some of the attributes we're talking about really only apply to the prep tool so that is as implemented today but I want to be sure that we aren't taking those out and putting them in later because the RPC is doing them um and I agree by the way with Robert's earlier request that before either or as we're getting close to being done on as implemented we start talking about and finish talking about what is the process for what happens after it great I think I've said enough all good thanks Julian um yeah so um regarding Paul's second point if this group came to the conclusion that things that are not relevant for the RPC are not in scope then we would be left with a question who else will do it I mean there are many things that we can put into the grammar that helps authors which are not really that important for the RPC for instance one thing that just came to mind was defining standard formats for um um for for um binary messages or for hex stumps or stuff like that where the RPC would only be the recipient but not the not really interested in how it was generated and things like that can be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "done by pre-processors but I don't think and I've been doing things like that for since I started the xslt work which I think is 20 years ago so all of this can be done in a pre-processor caston's markdown tool is a pre-processor as well so we can offer all kinds of authoring tools that will generate something that is only relevant to the RPC but it would be very good to have a point where to discuss these extensions and to uh maybe have implementers agree on them even if it's not this grp all right so some examples that go beyond Julian's examples of things that we could talk about somewhere would be extensions to grammar to that would only be used during authoring and never appear in the artifacts of um what was published as an r on RFC markup to allow tracking issues markup to allow capturing review comments and the resolution of those review comments things like this right brief discussion of those things in these lists because these are all the people that are interested in them I think should be encouraged rat holing should be carefully shephered by the chairs and pushed away to you guys are talking about something that's not really the groupy and if you are those guys please go talk about them somewhere else for a while until we get these other things done Julian you're back up or were you just left in the queue and we didn't remove you we will assume you were left in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "queue uh Alexis um I'm wondering if uh to speaking to the difference between things that end up uh only being used by authors versus things that end up in the uh or by the prep tool versus things that end up in the published XML um it seems to me that in version one of as used we might still want to include those things and just specifically say that they are things that are only used in uh kind of prepping documents or authoring documents uh just as a record of uh I would I guess I would hate to in version two of this have to relitigate are these things that we should remove or these things we should you know whatever if we put them in version one uh we could just say that they're only controlled by the RPC we could say the RPC will document any further changes on authors. ET f.org and this is now totally up to them um you know I I think that there is a good reason to put them in to our output one here uh just for the sake of clarity for the future thanks I I good point and I've heard others who are it sounded to me leaning in the direction of we may need to at some point as a group make a policy statement about what things appear in the tool um appear in authoring tools appear in the final output that is on the website um and uh how we document those becomes a different kind of question so thanks um Paul you appear to be next yeah I'm going to disagree both with Robert and with Lexus um I believe leave I'm disagreeing with Robert about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "that it should be on this list as soon as it's on this list we're going to Rat Hole we are better at doing that than like V6 Ops is so um I believe that it would be cleaner if there was another list that was not a working group list just another mailing list supported and it could quite frankly be supported by the ietf it does not have to be supported by the RFC editor because it's about creating ietf objects which are drafts um and then every time it comes any every time anything like that comes up on this list we can say no no no take it over there stop talking about here no we really mean it and the reason I disagree with Alexis is related which is I believe that in fact if we go that route where there is a place to talk about it and anyone who's doing a tool whether it is maintaining an old tool tool creating a new tool or whatever has an idea about something that would require putting something in the XML that it is cleanly over there and then it will be completely clear in as implemented that as implemented is just for the RPC I think we could put a a very hand wavy um appendix saying earlier we discussed these elements but notice they're not even in in the uh in in the grammar above and there is now a discussion of these and other things like them over there I think that's going to make it a lot cleaner and I think it will cause us to have many fewer discussions of what is policy is this policy do we get to discuss it the easiest way in my mind to not discuss it and again I am trying to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "get this thing done is to shove it all over to a place that's not a working group that the people who care most about it which I believe is the tool authors and their Fanboys of which I am one um can do that over there and I think that gets to the comment I made in the chat about there's a question of what we're doing and then there's a question of how we're doing it um John go ahead yeah I want to skip the process suggestion that Paul just made other than expressing a concern that we have a collection of healthy rats with good diing skills and that uh and the trying to distribute things by in different lists could easily result in Rat holes on both lists rather than rat holes on one but I'm not sure I do think and and and I think I disagree with Alexis in this I want to see an as implemented document which is about as implemented and as free of editorial comments judgments and other opinions as possible because as soon as we start editorializing in that document or making observations about what should or should not be there then we are digging ourselves in again and I would like to see the as implemented document finished reflecting what's implemented and then to degree necessary we go off and debate uh on as a 1.5 or on Paul's list or somewhere else what was a mistake we either include or not include on our way to topic two this also raises a separate problem about topic two logically we be talking about three separate languages here not even two separate languages but three like language number one is a document used by auth is is a specification used by"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "authors to write things which are going to be discussed in the iatf or some other stream in the process of agreeing on whether or not should be published we think we understand that one but we keep going around circles about it document number three is the thing which should be published as the stable official what have you canonical if you don't mind for RFC needs to be very stable should contain a minimum clutter uh for those of us who still believe in generic markup it contain a minimum of formatting fuss document number two is whatever the I the RPC needs to do in order to do formatting now and and the formatting particularly in the three presentation forms uh if that's um um RFC XML version X that's fine if it is more CSS stuff that's fine if it's xslt it's fine if it's back to enroth it's fine but that ought to be purely an RPC problem with which neither this working group nor the working group Paul's talking about ought to be spending time getting obsessed about that's a formatic language problem so now I put I put all the way into it go ahead Alexis maybe you can step on John's foot toward something no actually I think um John brings up a good point I I smooshed two things together so um uh for the as implemented my point really was I would like anything that actually gets used in any part of the process to be documented and if the as implemented basically just says this thing is used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "in this part of the process versus this thing is used in the published XML I think that's perfectly sufficient um if we you know don't feel up to or we think it belongs in a separate document uh the idea of and now the RPC controls these things that don't end up in the document or you know whatever the solution there is if that goes in a different document uh or we decide not to do it or whatever totally fine but I do think that anything that gets used in the process it would be best to actually document it in uh output number one there if I can sneak in for a moment just respond briefly to Alexis my my only concern is that I think we need to give the RPC maximum flexibility without coming back to this group on a day-to-day basis about whether they are or not doing and in so far as we believe that it makes the what the RPC is using a very very volatile question and I would like to see the as implemented document describe what's implemented put a lid on it avoid getting into separate discussions about what should or should not or has or has not or might in the future be done as part of that document because as soon as we do that I think we're in a r hole again so I don't I don't disagree I I'm not sure we're actually disagreeing um I feel like if it's in the original document uh and it is being used it should be in this document right like I mean uh regardless of which part of the process it's being used in maybe sorry I'm saying that badly um let me start that again if we are currently using a tag in any part of the process that is kind of a yes or no question right like we are or we are not using it what I'm saying is anything that we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "using should be in that document and if we want to say it's in this part of the process or it's in that part of the process as part of the documentation I think that's good I'm not trying to invite you know should it be there uh whatever because in my brain this is the as implemented we literally are using this or we are not all right Elliot you're in well good morning good afternoon good evening wherever you might be um it's a I just only have a a single question at this point which noting that as a quarter to the top of the hour um I was wondering if the chairs have a sense of where the room is and and whether we're able to to come to some conclusions sorry to be to to to be the you know poker on that one but I think we're running fair enough um Russ you want to make a stab at uh summary I'm happy at the highest level yes we have agreed that we're doing the two documents and I think the the grayness about where the edges are uh I heard way more uh agreement than disagreement which is very encouraging and so uh I I think that was where we need to to focus and get going and uh I would like to hear more about the last part we talked about uh how is the um as implemented published is it just the author's page or is it an RFC that part we haven't talked about eer you wanted to jump in on something else yeah that is what I came to talk about as as so yes I do not I do not think we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "should have an app as imped RFC um this uh was not a uh uh the the part of the problem here is decisions are not made by a consensus process and I think that like we should not be elevating them by having an R state so I think I think there should be I think it'd be fine to have um either of the following two things uh one a um author's page um that had imple is implemented or conversely a RFC which had which was as implemented with the things that were um we decided we didn't like in deprecate in a deprecated section so I not think so but I do not think we should publish a pure as implemented with no commentary on the things that were not consensus and we think are bad go ahead John in in in an odd way erre got ahead of me which is good maybe I I I'm am not so convinced this needs to be published as RFC but I do believe it needs to be done and stable as this think a document which we or anybody else is tinkering with on an ongoing basis so it's really not as implemented as a foundation for further things but as implemented right now and subject to change tomorrow uh I think that that's a very important distinction whether it's published is an RFC or not is a separate issue and I don't really care except that what edar then described is my doc is my document 1.5 it's this document with all of that all the commentary and Reflections and deprecations and Applause that we can agree on attached to it uh Paul I would uh advocate for a stable thing that looks like an RFC because it started as a draft with a date on it that says this will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "not be up you know like this is it for this one you'll see at another point I would be happiest with no commentary because commentary indicates working group consensus it which we absolutely don't have commentary indicates we've thought well about this which we obviously haven't because we're discovering new stuff and we're going to discover new stuff next year as well um if we leave it as a page on the author's site I want to put a little bit of text at the top of it that says this looks like it's an internet draft it's not you know like like we're done and this looks like an RFC it's not we decided not to do it but the tooling that we have that Julian created as he said like 20 freaking years ago um which makes this so that we can have all of the grammar and stuff is going to make something that looks like a draft or RFC and I would I would like to keep that with just a note at the top uh Elliot okay so um as somebody who believes that rfc's are not some sort of s sankor saned you know thing um I actually prefer that we publish things as rsc's however I see no chance that this group would ever come to consensus on publishing the as implemented um in the in the current way I just I just don't see it um and I I am more concerned about what Robert said which is that I don't want us to get blocked on on an argument over the form of the document as getting published so that Robert can get on with his work the tooling people can get on with doing more interesting things and we get on to you know actually enhancing the grammar to cover use cases that we're not covering so you won't see me pushing hard for an RFC I I would push harder for us to do the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "extensions that we think are actually going to make life better for our users so I'd say let's move on from that discussion and run with what Paul has suggested I would like to ask a follow on question we have this thing on the author's page that has a little blurb about each of the elements that make up the schema is that what we're talking about just leaving it there in HTML and if so where does that version number go it's more than the version of the grammar I mean there's there's it's a release version right Robert no it's also instructions on how we use it indeed and well that's the point that c has been making over and over so seriously like maybe this is useful maybe it's not and there's not very many minutes left so you can tell me just to take this to the list but what is the precondition what when can I make prep tool stop putting the defaults in can I do that like today and the next RSC just doesn't have that in it is that okay so Robert that specific question I can answer which is no that's not okay because prep tool is still an RFC about a process so so we would have to do another thing either a policy document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "or something else which says you can stop doing prep tool or you can just do these parts of prep tool that's quite different than the grammar definition or whatever is in 7991 Carson is correct is more than just grammar um but on something where you're asking can the RPC change its process today to do Foo we actually have to do that on a case-by Case basis and prep tool will be one which hopefully is easy but is not guaranteed too hopefully that helps yeah well so then we get into the ones that affect the grammar it's like can can we um are we going to be all the way to to what was at the front of this call two before we can address what's happening with do name so I guess in interest the the the time that we've got left and if anybody else can come to the mic um I I think some uh questions to the group that would make sure that our ads are in at least similar places about the timing of the upcoming changes that we have been wanting to have for quite some time um would would help us avoid pitfalls later Michael um what I heard Paul's response to Robert was that the contents of what Prep 2 does is a policy decision and is not up to the RPC I'm not agreeing or disagreeing I just wanted to clarify that's Paul no no absolutely not no it's it is what has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "been published and therefore it's what we're supposed to be doing whether it's policy or not or right or not doesn't matter but it is what is published currently until we unpublish it or change it so it's not up to the RPC to decide that it's up to us to to set that but it's not a policy seems like a I think we've struggled with this over and over again as to what what to what extent we want to micromanage or not micromanage and that what you're just saying seems to fall right in the middle of that of that space I agree it's the middle okay all right so fine I I have no opinion about it but I just want to be clear I understand the conflict go ahead Rich um yeah I just skimm through the introduction of that all of what was the number there uh 7998 and it's not really clear you know if you came up with a different prep tool or you're mandating if if you say take it back this document the document doesn't mandate a particular instant instantiation of the prep tool if the as implemented document were published as an RFC and it could then also obsolete obsolete this document I mean it's really having an RFC for every step in the pipeline when we're not the experts in publication just opinionated rats um doesn't seem like a good way to go so if my answer to Robert's question would be change it whenever the RPC tells you it's okay and then we'll fix it later on in the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:05",
    "text": "docs all right seeing no one else in the queue um and with only three minutes left I I have a sense that Russ and I know where this is going and how a summarize this I also have a sense that um we will remember the process here is someone proposes some policy document and the working group does or does not take it on and then off we go Russ and I may be uh required at some point to uh solicit someone to write certain kinds of documents that we think uh might need to be done and put that out on the list as a request um but we'll see where we're at um and it looks like Russ may have lost connectivity um I think that's as far as we're going to get but I think that actually accomplished what we what we were looking for Russ has come back um so uh I don't think there is much of anything else to be done today Russ do you have anything else no I'm very happy that uh I think we we got there with very little contention and uh I'm pleased to that so many people have a common Vision here yep so Russ and I will review notes um uh Julian did you want to make a quick comment yes I know that's not very common for the ITF but maybe we should set us a goal when we actually get at least document one done because this has taken so long and this is uh relative well defined work item and not with that a lot of open questions we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "should really set as a goal when to to be done with it I I I hear with on from others in the room that um your chairs may be required to get out prods and other assorted tools to make things happen in a timely manner and choose what that timely manner will be um so Russ and I will put our heads together with the notes that have been taken uh uh get some conclusions out make sure we're all on the same page and maybe propose some uh dates and things that we will be doing on the list going forward thank you all much appreciated that was very useful goodbye thank you what does your shirt say Pete uh it it it's the tit place that I go to okay thanks cow thank you all"
  }
]
