[
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:26",
    "text": "hello but knows how to make the projector work anyone who knows how to make the projector [Music] [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:05",
    "text": "[Music] hello good afternoon nothing anyone okay yes okay good get the Kriss vector here as well just everyone else in front is asleep or too busy I know I didn\u0027t send an email recently so you shouldn\u0027t be looking at your email right now unless you\u0027re filling out the wiki page who has not filled other week engage who hasn\u0027t filled out the wiki page because you\u0027re not a working group chair awesome okay thank you for coming even though you\u0027re not absolutely twenty eight hundred percent required to so the bad news is you\u0027re gonna hear some jokes until we get the slides projected the good news is they don\u0027t have to come from me which is to say please hold on technical difficulties population of the room is working good chair I think this is just a repetition of the working group chairs meeting for routing area okay so this is the routing area open meeting i\u0027m alvaro is alia and that\u0027s the borough and we have a very exciting okay so so the other for today is you know usually gender we\u0027re gonna go through some of the trivia on the area you want have changed much and I already have a presentation by Rick Taylor I\u0027m sitting over there he\u0027s going to talk about d-lab we\u0027ll talk a little bit more about this in a second they\u0027re not well it\u0027s up I\u0027m sure you all know it by heart but we did anyways again and then after Rick\u0027s presentation we\u0027re going to go into the always exciting and never boring report from every working group first we\u0027re gonna have John give us a quick report of the routing Directorate and then we should have a little bit of time for any open mic questions or any other those questions that you want to have anyone have any items that you want to change the agenda there\u0027s a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:09",
    "text": "shockingly low number of people here there\u0027s a shockingly low number of people here I I\u0027m wondering about the question you guys how many people are working two chairs worth not know that\u0027s a really good point Chris so how many people here are working group chairs how many people here are not working with chairs I\u0027m working group chair from a different area how many are here for the first time how many is this a first IETF or thank you very much for coming you\u0027re really welcome awesome the cross-pollination is actually really useful even if working another area Wow I do see some people trickling in now which might indicate that we\u0027re not as exciting as the Smacks which is okay right thank you for coming sorry Alberto and Debra are of course more exciting than the snacks as Alvarez pointed out he\u0027s sweet [Music] we told you you know you\u0027re gonna hear bad jokes so other reality what do you want so you\u0027ve read the note well there\u0027s also a bunch of links of other resources that you all should know about the rectorate page the wiki etc and as always please please PLEASE especially those of you who are not chairs of course also as well but you know please review the documents in the work that helps everyone satisfy the mission that we\u0027re here to fulfill yeah yeah great you create really good standards document all examples please review the documents make comments ask questions anything else wanted and also as always we\u0027re open to any of your feedback you want to use the time open mic session please use that to give us an feedback about what we\u0027re doing good or bad or different or anything you want to say or if you want to look for us outside individually as a group you know whatever please this is one of the only opportunities alright just amplifying that we I at least get shockingly little feedback from anybody who\u0027s not a share about anything that\u0027s not their working group and sometimes we try and have discussions in the routing area meeting because it is a good and open forum where we can have discussions both on how the area is doing and where we should be going the industry is changing right and that has impact on the IETF and the technology is we should be pulling in and how we should be interacting out into other communities and if we don\u0027t have those discussions here that it\u0027s very hard to have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:11",
    "text": "coherent guidance for where there is going so the what I was thinking when I was thinking about how the lack of people was you know we\u0027re always having a hard time finding a time for me sort of privately as a group of working to chairs right and is it possible keeping which with the benefit of like having a working two chairs having this be like the same thing we do is it working two chairs meeting but with an open forum you know somehow combining those maybe that would help get other people yeah we do that you know there are some topics and you know that\u0027s that other times we\u0027ve had similar topics that we have in our chairs meaning you have them here as well it\u0027s just yeah and other topics over times this time we have just well you know so they\u0027re all you know we had a security a these come to the voting chairs me of course we schedule it at 7:30 in the morning because there was no other time to make securities anywhere including this time yes I think that that that there are some topics that are probably okay or they\u0027re fine for everyone to discuss in a more open way not that that topic wasn\u0027t but you know timing and other things yeah I mean I guess I\u0027m thinking like you know is it really anything there\u0027s some there\u0027s times where you want to meet where you need to discuss things in a semi-private for up right but I wonder you know to err on the side of openness and there\u0027s not really that many things that we could be discussing that private right so we might think about kind of conspiring to contest because then we actually have a meeting tom is right here just for the sake of their most participants let\u0027s start by saying our names you kept when we come to the mic thanks okay can someone please close the door um thank you so this is the agenda as I said you go through the area status that much has changed rich my faculty lab then the reports and then go back to the other thing so as I just said there hasn\u0027t been really any changes to the area you have no new working group or anything what we chartered or we haven\u0027t lost anything we I think are close to finishing worked on some of the working groups and then it should be time to close or be charter and I think about it looks next we did have a bomb this week which was yesterday yes yes yesterday morning yes DC routing ball and then here it\u0027s probably reporting here from them as well and and there have been no chair changes in the last three months we\u0027re always looking to of course enhance and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:14",
    "text": "make the leadership better including our own jobs right so please going to look out of people and give opportunities can grow on the chair of Sadie\u0027s [Music] so you have to that point Shepard\u0027s I know that a number of my working groups the chairs I\u0027ve been encouraging to go find to ask for shepherds on the mailing list to have folks spend a little bit of a few cycles to understand and help with that process if they see how it works and then that helps them understand how their documents are going to go through and it helps show that the documents that are moving through the working group have interest from more than the authors and it\u0027s important to have all of these types of feedback the chairs get pretty busy as well as to amplify on some of what alvaro said I\u0027ve been up front in the working groups and my expectation is that before I step down there probably regrettably not right at the plenary I do expect that I\u0027ll be closing trill we\u0027re working on getting the work done I - RS is going to go on hiatus and getting that work that\u0027s still stuck in that working group finishing up I know sue and the rest have been working very hard on making that happen and I really appreciate that work primarily sue of course for that and as we discussed in the joint OSPF is is session I expect to be merging those two working groups we\u0027re also working on reach our Turing SFC it\u0027s on one item we forgot to put here hopefully no you know we\u0027d like to keep it forever we can\u0027t so right now NomCom has the comment period open it\u0027s only open I think like Thanksgiving me so it\u0027s really critical we have a good group of slate of candidates there so be sure to get your comments in you can do it either individually or if you want to do something private you can just send an off the caret a private you know they have just make sure you try to do that and then it\u0027s week so not to put anybody on the spot but does everybody know who the candidates for the next routing ad are okay so could those people who have been kind enough to Jenna - don\u0027t volunteer to serve the next two years of their lives for the IETF please please stand up so everyone knows who you are and if you have quite people are questions or want to check with you that would be really appreciated thank you thank you for volunteering it really matters and I deeply appreciate it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:16",
    "text": "[Music] the only other thing I will say is you can get feedback about the candidates you know why you think someone\u0027s gonna be good or not or you can also give the NomCom feedback about what you think is needed in the area so they can you know talk to the candidates and find what you think is missing or what we\u0027re going to be missing the pickle yes of town or one elias Islam etcetera again he\u0027s my courier that\u0027s open until the end of next week just the reminder these are the working groups that were responsible for we already mentioned some of the work in groups of cheese we\u0027re gonna reach are during or closing we\u0027re gonna have today after this meeting the Monet meeting we\u0027re gonna have a serious question there about what future I\u0027ve been working this we\u0027re close to reach are during spring as well so there\u0027s you know there\u0027s a lot of opportunity this week but we need to figure out what\u0027s next with that group as well okay so now we\u0027re going to move into Rick\u0027s feel a presentation [Music] [Music] so Rick has been active in the men a working group and one of the protocols that the work group has been doing there is called a deal app they never think change we believe that or the reason that the Rick is here to talk about is that we believe that the applicability of the lab goes way beyond many networks it was it was initially developed to satisfy someone\u0027s there because of how the networks are built but in reality we believe that goes beyond that so what we wanted to hear is you give you a glimpse of what dilip is to try and whet your "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:17",
    "text": "appetite and there is development going on right now extensions going on we want to get more people interested and both coming to the money working group but also working on the other specifically that\u0027s the objective of this of this I\u0027m gonna hold the mic because I\u0027m taller than the mic stand and I know you have to keep it close so if I deviate you can\u0027t hear me somebody just wave okay so yeah dealer what is it why should I care alvaro point you know it\u0027s it\u0027s work we\u0027ve been doing in the money working group for the last six years it has taken a long time and the problem we\u0027ve been trying to solve is how do you do routing in dynamic networks of radio bearers I vent a bit more detail about that in a second but again I\u0027m repeating Alvaro here we think we have a solution that is has wider applicability than just the man a problem cases but what I\u0027m gonna do is talk through how we came to this decision for the many use cases and then try and convince you that it\u0027s got applicability outside of many so first off what\u0027s the problem very simple how to to Reuters form and maintain an adjacency I mean how does Ruta a discover route to be in order to start exchanging routes well it\u0027s pretty obvious you configure each route er with what the guy on the other ends IP address is or something along that high you start sending packets hello you keep sending them out of configured retry interval and at certain point the guy on the other end says hello back and then you can start sharing routes and once that\u0027s up you make sure that your protocol has some kind of i\u0027ll sender hello I\u0027m still here a message no we keep alive and when you stop hearing them from the guy at the other ends you assume he\u0027s gone and probably tear those routes down or go and do something else okay and that works that works fine yeah we\u0027ve been building routing protocols on this sort of principle for what 25 30 years someone tell me it\u0027s longer and it works fine when your network looks like that you know I know I wish my datacenters don\u0027t like that hopefully works when your server excellent like that but occasionally people pull cables out and you know how it works and it very rarely works well when your network equipment is made of these things this is actually a very nice radio I\u0027d like to point out there\u0027s nothing wrong with the radio the problem is with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:19",
    "text": "approach to routing over search get okay if anyone from Harris is listening why is it so bad across these radio systems well that\u0027s because radios are affected by things that wires aren\u0027t you know rain has a major problem you don\u0027t get that in data centers when it rains and data centers don\u0027t already cares as long as the roofs not leaking interference you know other we all know this from Wi-Fi when your channel is congested somehow you just can\u0027t get that connection you want position an orientation Mountains are important if somebody walks over and moves your satellite dish or leans on it and guess what you\u0027ve just lost your link and also frankly radio equipment is commonly used in things that move you know if it doesn\u0027t move you\u0027re better off using a wire really enough experience in this field if your pitches are moving use a wire okay so a little bit of a digression fundamentally IP has one well done us you know everyone wants to run IP across their radio networks because it works across all their office equipment and everyone can see the benefit of it so why do they have to have a special system to run across the radio networks so the market is demanding an IP Ethernet interface into the front end of the radio they can then assume this traffic magically works across the radio network comes out the other end and can route off to your ISP of choice and your service providers and you can book your honor these and do whatever you need to do to manage that that means the radio layers have got really clever you know to be able to manage multiple you look how complex 802 11 is it\u0027s it does some pretty clever stuff and your access points although they seem such commodity Hardware are doing some heavy stuff here and the nice thing is because we\u0027re sort of stopping at the IP layer vendors can then innovate and do their own special sauces and come up with their own clever radios that work for use cases where there might be customers and the traditional kit doesn\u0027t work well which is all good you know competition and innovation and when I talk about radios radios these days aren\u0027t that point-to-point thing you used to see in in you know in old war films from the 1940s it\u0027s their complicated satellite systems meshing radio systems that are designed to work in places like downtown Manhattan freespace optical and microwave systems which have multi gigabit connections running hundreds of kilometers or thousands if you\u0027re higher up in the atmosphere so the proposition that dealer well actually the man a working group came to is that when you\u0027re dealing with links more complicated than wires and I\u0027ll read this out because I think it\u0027s valid the link there is already doing discovery and maintenance it\u0027s already doing that clever stuff so why is the routing layer doing it again why sent hellos when your radio kits already doing it why don\u0027t you just talk to the radio and say hey what are you doing and so this this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:20",
    "text": "could be summed up by the work that\u0027s happened in MANET over the years the earliest dates 2007 which is radio to route of protocols how does a Rooter talk in a consistent standardized way to a radio to find out what are you doing what\u0027s going on at the link there to save me having to duplicate that effort so there\u0027s a little bit of background there\u0027s first off there was PPP over e for credit flow and link metrics which is doing it over the point-to-point connections over Ethernet then rtcp which was another attempt of this building on the shortcomings of already and that consolidated into dynamic link exchange protocol which is really the next generation learning from the experiences with the previous ones you can see some of these drafts only had one revision the elect started 2012 went through a number of iterations as we learned and it really was a concern a case of running code and rough consensus so a lot of experimentation worked went into this working out what actually needs to be in what can we leave out in order to get a basic protocol that performs the tasks we need it to without spending another six years trying to get the standardize so it was painful but worth it so what is dealer obviously you can read the RFC but I\u0027ll condense it very quickly into this slide so as I said before it\u0027s it\u0027s a protocol that allows a Rooter and a radio to have a conversation about what is going on at the link layer so fundamentally your your lower layers can tell a Rooter hey I just found someone I\u0027d found another node on the network you know he\u0027s tuned to my channel he\u0027s in my TDMA timeslots plan and so on I\u0027ve done a load of layer 2 stuff and now you can talk to him and can tell you stuff like this is his MAC address if you send me frames with this MAC address guess what they\u0027ll pop out you the guy at the other end if possible I provide you the IP address as well and also I can handle multicast if I if I\u0027m a radio system that does multicast I can talk to you about multicast availability and also having told you that the link is there I can tell you a when it goes away again and B I can tell you about what the quality of that link is like so what bandwidth can you get what latency is like across that link and some other things like ooh it\u0027s a bit of a catch-all went in there so what sort of battery life is the thing on the other end got so you know do I really want to elect him in some sort of routing protocol that uses elections for designated peers or something do I want to elect this guy if his battery\u0027s just about to die and it will tell you how those links change over time so it may say yeah you\u0027ve got a hundred Meg link but it\u0027s 50 Meg now or 25 it\u0027s getting worse he\u0027s probably driving away from you or thunderstorms coming in or whatever any of obviously and tell you when it gets better so you can start to make more real-time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:22",
    "text": "decisions about what you\u0027re doing so how does this help well if the link layer can tell you when things happen then you can start operating an event triggered way rather than polling for availability of things you might want to form an adjacency team you can be told meaning you can be more responsive and particularly in things like low powered devices you can save on resources and concentrate on what you\u0027re meant to be doing are you talking the other people you can say so summed up that\u0027s like one nice thing I hope and the other thing you can do is if you know about those links and you are told about how those links change you might be able to do smarter things such as if I know my latency is 200 milliseconds then I know I have to wait 400 milliseconds before I\u0027ll get an act back so I can make a smarter decision about my timers and I can also change that my decision about my time as has I spot that latency getting longer or shorter or whatever so I\u0027m not flooding what could be a valuable expensive to use link if control plane packets and you can then go on to play some other games like oh well if I know that links actually not particular a pamphlet I might not want to use it so you could do some metric based costs and that\u0027s that\u0027s something we\u0027re only just starting to open up so ok nice example needed a picture of aeroplanes I work for a bus we make airplanes we also make networks so a classic example we have is that an aircraft can take approximately 45 seconds to fly from Horizon to Horizon so how on earth do you get the data off to the poor guy on the ground or pick up his data well during that time first off you\u0027ve got a notice that he\u0027s there then the link there\u0027s got to do it chatting about it\u0027s assumed were tuned to the right channel that try and saw how our TV MA or CDMA and all the clever RF stuff that they do once that\u0027s in place the IP layer has got to come up and go okay let\u0027s do some our ping let\u0027s see if we got some maybe discovery just found him now I\u0027ve got some addresses great now perhaps if I\u0027m a Rooter involved in this I want to start saying hey routing protocols now you want to kick off and if they\u0027re doing hellos this is taking longer and at that point the application layer might notice and want to start syncing the data another point you\u0027ve gone till it\u0027s all just dropped so breaking that down a bit are picking off OSPF you know the common practice as far as I can work out for us bf this is a ten-second hello and a 40 second dead interval well with them in a 45 second window you\u0027ve lost half your time trying to work out whether he\u0027s even there um and your upper layer protocols you know we all know these application guys I used to be one you test on your dev machine which is running on Gigabit Ethernet in the office and probably goes far a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:22",
    "text": "switch under your desk you know I works great on my machine you start to run this in the field never works so obviously yet you can tune all these parameters and yeah that\u0027s what we do at the moment we all go and stand around in a wet field and it takes a very long time and it\u0027s all very expensive but we do tune the parameters and we can get these networks to work but there\u0027s no dynamism in there at all you know what will work for one mission and a nice sunny day since it\u0027s now raining it\u0027s all gonna be retune so there\u0027s a lot of fudge factors and a lot of Oh worst case scenario tuning there is always a well-paid human somewhere always you\u0027d be surprised at how many well-paid humans are in place the network engineers are in places you didn\u0027t think network engineers went and they\u0027re doing very nicely out of it I\u0027m not one of them which is why I\u0027m trying to get them out of a job people say yeah Sdn can help Sdn invariably at the moment makes it or worse I can\u0027t tell you why so please don\u0027t beat me up about it but it\u0027s something to do with the methodology that and I\u0027ll come on in a second Sdn is quite rightly came out of data center and fixed networks and it\u0027s very easy to go our we can use at the end to solve this problem so we\u0027re going get open flow and put all this together it\u0027ll be great and you turn it on and then just nothing happens just it\u0027s it\u0027s a nightmare and it\u0027s got to be fixed because Sdn has some huge advantages and fundamentally the end user wants to do what he\u0027s actually signed up to do most of these poor guys who have to use these radio systems in these environments they wanted to be activists engineer evidence paramedics you know they wanted to save lives they didn\u0027t want to fiddle with the Rooter you know sure you should care about bandaging and not hello interval timers so so the proposal is with Dee lip you can start to skip out to some of these you don\u0027t need me up a neighbor discovery because you can be told you max straight off so we can skip that cycle you can skip the hello and the dead interval because you know he\u0027s there and you know his IP address so crack on you might actually be able to skip having a routing protocol in some scenarios the dealer does provide you the possibility for a little stub area network to say hey the guy over there he\u0027s got a little slash twenty seven network behind him just pop that in a table somewhere of just Molly\u0027s here it is intentionally not a full routing protocol okay there\u0027s no loop avoidance it\u0027s it\u0027s a little stub area that was an intentional decision because we had to limit the scope of what we were trying to do here and also you can do things like I\u0027ve covered this before preload round-trip time estimates for some of the other you know else you\u0027re using because you start to get some idea of latency so you start get some idea of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:22",
    "text": "what that link will actually manage which might get the data moving more efficiently yeah Wow it\u0027s all very cool but I imagine most of you guys don\u0027t do anything their radios so why should you actually care well I\u0027ll try and answer that so I think the reality is everyone in this room he\u0027s using link there\u0027s more complicated than 10 base T none of you are using twisted-pair anymore you know your link players in whatever area you actually are in are enormous be complicated and they\u0027re doing stuff you don\u0027t realize they\u0027re doing or if they are doing it you don\u0027t seem to be able to ask them what they\u0027re doing look at that you tell me well look at any sort of family you know that\u0027s appears to just be a link but it\u0027s doing stuff any sort of virtual machine networking where you\u0027ve got you know a V switch of some sorts in your in your data center that\u0027s doing loads of stuff and it knows when links are be configured to come up and come down long before your polling and your pinging in your app and you\u0027re hello endowed comes up there\u0027s an interesting use case in the 3gpp LTE environment that whole protocol stack done some very clever stuff and when you\u0027re trying to route in a traditional sense across 3gpp networks you have to treat it as a wire currently there\u0027s no way to Erie your modem and say actually what are you doing can I see my base station am i moving you know what\u0027s going on there 802 11 yeah and we all know what it\u0027s like as your signal goes up and down get your phone out you can see the links change perhaps we can be smarter about what we do with those things not from the route of perspective because people often don\u0027t root from their phones but from an application perspective there might be an opportunity there domestic Rob and I know a lot of people have nice fast fiber all over the place I live in a rural area of England where my yeah my broadband speed drops every time it rains because the cable runs through a gully which fills with water so yeah you know I have a varying link on what should be an absolutely fixed wire and Dina could help with all of these so what\u0027s next for diem as Alvaro said we\u0027re working on some extension so we\u0027ve got the core protocol which describes how you have a session between Reuter and radio so how you can negotiate about what you\u0027re going to talk about you can sort out some basic stuff like I can see someone they\u0027ve got away again a destination as they caught as we call it the dealer terminology and you can talk about the nature to the destinations we\u0027re now starting to address the fact that you might have multiple egress queues in your modem so perhaps depending on the size of these queues the congestion on these queues you might want to do some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:22",
    "text": "phone control or the route might want to understand that if it\u0027s forwarding traffic down via that device then actually that devices queues are starting to bang up and based on DSC Pico finds or something at are different there you know you can queue how you want you might want to do some flow control on that equally there might be different metrics per Q so there\u0027s some work going on there we\u0027re talking about it in the session after this please come along and join in um dilip does currently because we were trying to scope it discuss everything in terms of a single contiguous layer to domain so everything\u0027s treated than a layer to obviously life is a bit more complex than that there are devices which operation they\u0027re three linked back into fixed infrastructure where there isn\u0027t really another end but there\u0027s definitely an internet there isn\u0027t isn\u0027t handled particularly well by Cordelia but we\u0027ve got extensions in place to handle that as well and people are thinking up of new and exciting metrics that you might want to talk about teen up has quite a nice extensions mechanism where instead of having version numbers and constantly revving the draft there\u0027s a way of negotiating what extensions you want to use for the life of the session so the ability to add extensions and support extensions through different implementations is Reath we believe is reasonably simple and extensible so the other half of what\u0027s next is is to reach out to you guys to say we think we\u0027ve got something bigger than just MANET and we think it might be of interest to you the other thing because this is the ITF we need to write some yang models we do be able to manage this somehow and there\u0027s lots of scope for people to write extensions that work for them you know doc says I don\u0027t know what the 5g guys are supporting it would be really interesting to see whether they need some special capabilities or they can provide some capabilities for the use of us on the on the routing and traffic moving side datacenter guys you know virtualization virtual switching virtual network substrates that\u0027s that\u0027s interesting stuff there\u0027s got to be the ability to have a event-driven link layer notifications it\u0027s you guys have got to be thinking about this already let\u0027s not reinvent the wheel we\u0027ve got something reusable I think it\u0027s my last slide anyway ah ok I\u0027m sorry if I interrupted but Greg musk is it he I just wanted to ask have you look at the work done on what can be called add links with a variable discrete bandwidth namely it\u0027s actually radio links and there was a work done in C camp tears and with RCP and IGBT hi I\u0027m Amy from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:28",
    "text": "Holley actually I work it\u0027s very interesting to say your presentation because currently argue I so we have a company to them their spirit functions from your snide I see you have a quite different quite a right I mean you\u0027re just the sort of people we want to reach out to because we\u0027ve been in a in a sort of slightly in the cupboard of many so no one has really seen the work we\u0027re doing with this so that\u0027s the half the point of becoming here to tell you about these things because I think there probably is crossover because I\u0027m talking to microwave people at the moment trying to get them to implement deal app on their on their microwave radios but um I\u0027ve got a couple of open questions to fill in but one of the things I think is relevant particularly where you\u0027re coming from from seachem is that DNF is talking very much about an event triggered way of driving routing rather than a prescriptive way so rather than the network controller in some way saying I need that link budget I need you to operate in this way as part of my master plan for the network driven by policy dilemma allows everything to be a bit more autonomous and reactive and I think that comes from the MANET heritage both approaches are probably done it I don\u0027t I don\u0027t want to try and say oh yeah enjoy your work away but I would love to talk to you afterwards about this like I said come to man a.m. we\u0027re going to talk about this released another 45 minutes and probably have an arguments as well next session next session in the orchard room at 6:10 Justin Dean chair of the mani working group great presentation yeah there was one thing you mentioned that I don\u0027t quite agree with and that is that we\u0027ve been doing this in isolation we\u0027ve been developing it in isolation but there has been at least that I know of three different radio vendors that have adopted it and put it into their actual radios so it\u0027s getting some with development of this it was always a chicken and egg problem with which routers are going to support this what radios are going to support it and who\u0027s gonna want to build something when the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:29",
    "text": "other side isn\u0027t there because it\u0027s a two-part system so now that we\u0027re getting some radio vendors to do it we really want to get some routing people to build their end of it and build it up so that it can explode and be useful for lots of different systems like I agree I think it\u0027s very valid point when I said we\u0027ve been doing it slightly in the cupboard I meant of the IETF there\u0027s not a lot of exposure within the idea we see it from the radio vendors and from the people commissioning systems built with radios we\u0027ve hit the turnover tip over point I\u0027d say we\u0027re now getting people saying how do I make this work in my kit you know people putting it on their marketing material we do deal em and so I agree it\u0027s in industries there I\u0027m not sure the ITF that hasn\u0027t had the second part of that is when we were developing many routing protocols we would often put in a section saying how you would outside of discovering your neighbors how you would bring a link up or down and what the rules are regarding that but we didn\u0027t have anything like be left already free to find we only had independent drivers that people had written for Wi-Fi and they wanted to do this out this stuff themselves now we have a mechanism that we would have if we were to design a routing protocol now we would reference the left and we would tell tell people exactly how it did control it instead of just saying if you want to bring a link up this is how you can do it and the restrictions on what that means one other final thing I wanted to mention is the radio guys that we deal with often do mesh networking themselves they do everything at a lower lower layer and when I go to them and I say well can you turn routing off they looking at three heads and they don\u0027t understand that if we don\u0027t want it to turn off I just want to be able to route to say another hop to use a different radio system or a different link partway there and then right around it and they\u0027re not giving it they don\u0027t have dual effort and something like that I can\u0027t get the information out of it to route around a possible problem link in their network when they\u0027re just providing a whole mesh for me so now instead of telling them hey turn that off I don\u0027t want your stuff I can say well hey can you implement D left it\u0027s something we can use it will enable our systems you mean much more powerful it\u0027s me again I\u0027m sorry who are you Greg risky Nikki I probably should write it where there is some extension again because when we were doing this for the microwave in our CPA gtp learned that 1731 has been with notification extension and again might be it\u0027s interesting to see because that will be layer two telling layer 3 which was very nice but again something to talk about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:30",
    "text": "and look whether it\u0027s possible to give it there so then our layer 3 doesn\u0027t have to be discovering and learn there too and it just will be specific you know thing it\u0027s extension BN been with notification 1731 and someone make a note of that so I can look it up can I just finish my last few slides if that\u0027s all right um what I was gonna say is the open questions and we\u0027ve started to touch on this at the moment which from my perspective as one of the dealer portals where I think we should start to explore developing a wider area rates how does delet play well with Sdn as I said before dilip is reactive and is built around their premise of events trickling up from lower layers allowing upper layers to react whereas Sdn seems to have a more prescriptive model where high up in the in the policy architecture policy flows down from above so how did these two work together and I\u0027m not sure PFD is really good and BFD and dealer really ought to work together well and I\u0027d love to find out how to make that happen because once Dean uh was told you were links there PFD would do a fantastic job of keeping it alive or there\u0027s some there\u0027s some combination that can happen with PFD and I\u0027d really like to have a conversation with those guys see what they think about D Levin and see where the crossover is I\u0027d also like to talk to the guys involved with OSPF and ISAs and BGP and Barbeau and to have some best practices on using deal app with your protocols would be really interesting for those of us working in the radio areas but also it might make some of them it might be good for the community as a whole is the short answer also classic example with the microwave thing we missed out on that work we didn\u0027t know what was happening now that\u0027s the truth so let\u0027s fill in that gap let\u0027s find where the crossover is and find what we should have known earlier and my last question really is to the chairs is is money the right place for deal a penny more and that\u0027s that\u0027s a question ready ladies and that\u0027s it question I got a question I switch is go here so remember just not for the Houston it\u0027s time to go home now yet you mentioned notice I\u0027m one of the first lights right D lip doesn\u0027t do anything about wireless lans it in the dealer it\u0027s not actually in the document anymore but for a long time it used to be referred to as radio magic intentionally dilip does not prescribe what the radio does to maintain its link "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:32",
    "text": "how the radio system does multicast that\u0027s up to them and they may want to go and look at some of the work that\u0027s happening in p.m. or in the other group and take some advice but dieppe allows a radio system that does do multicast to tell the Rooter on the other end of the deal app session and it\u0027s just the little local session with it doesn\u0027t run across the air I should have mentioned that to say hey I do do multicast you know here\u0027s a multicast Mac it\u0027s not sending traffic that way I can tell you much because Mac plus you know which of those groups now applies to and I continue metrics about that so if my multicast is ten times slower than my unicast in a sort of 802 11 mode I can tell you that it is slower so you can decide to throttle your multicast traffic but we don\u0027t try and fix the radio layer the radio now that\u0027s that\u0027s a different thing we\u0027re the interface between the two and we don\u0027t prescribe them thanks thanks I don\u0027t want to say they\u0027re right but there is some work done on SMS simple multi uploading like yeah for multicast over wireless networks and actually they do have in their charter right now also a an item to work on on making that better but I don\u0027t know what to call the advanced multicolored a forwarding information monthly gets forwarding information or something on the site so anyways yeah there is work going on there on wireless propagation which I know that pin has also been discussing that yes exactly so yes there is definitely some some connection there and that same topic that Mike and other people have been talking about and paim around or among the other know where something around 802 11 and how much it sucks has been also been discussed in in theory and other places small right so yes but but yeah there\u0027s definitely overlapping synergies there though they need to coordinate oh hi blue burger I think it\u0027s worth pointing out that he left supports radios that have two different service policies to work with radios that have an Ethernet service model or an IP service model and there\u0027s definitely some interesting different use cases of when you\u0027d want one over the other there\u0027s a little bit more work going on to make the IP service model even more usable but I think we have a solution for that come from the MANET afterwards and we can tell you more about that in detail but thanks reporting out what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:53",
    "text": "bandwidth is available so if you have a variable rate system would the port here\u0027s what you have now yeah so there\u0027s no control drop-down that says please write to Kara fie that point Dilip is primarily a reporting protocol it\u0027s not a management protocol you don\u0027t start turning off and turning on features there\u0027s a little bit of can I please have functionality in there but it\u0027s primarily a channel to allow event reporting back up to the region anyway because instead of meeting at the end you\u0027re grabbing a mic in the link layer and so for us and C camp if instead of using a controller to know for there for the OSPF what it is particularly with you see a sort of feedback loop where your your controller or your configuration may configure the layer the link layer and say I need this Anita 173 megabits and the reality of the atmospherics is that actually you\u0027re any good 120 but with the deal app you get told it\u0027s only 120 you don\u0027t just read the config file and say oh it\u0027s so previous I built here micro network using 38 extension to see another pendant available and if modulation changes you just updated so if you look at modern a general protection affably would have bgp less northbound report us to the controller if tensions are in place however timing could be critical it takes and redistribute stuff to sundered Northam you know bgp take time you might need to look into time intuition and how real time you want to be would you like to come and help us do that potentially Thank You blueburger again I\u0027d like to go back to whatever talked about with Ellen Pete I I got originally associated with he left because I was assigned as a reviewer because I had worked on LMP it really is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:53",
    "text": "just L\u0026P developed from a different group different market sector it\u0027s really just LMP for a different market sector had we known about each other we probably could have just done one protocol and it\u0027s fortunate this protocol has been developed very richly for one application LMP still is really very niche you know there\u0027s very there it still exists and it\u0027s used for very limited application this one seems to be growing a little bit more but they really are morally protocol thanks Ricky so as you said at the beginning and as you said you know this was Peugeot we think is growing we think there\u0027s a bullet e outside of many and too rich that\u0027s question there what do we do it is it\u0027s my name really the place you ever think of other than thank you spin this off somewhere so that water wider audience comes you believe it there and and you come to me or you have any thoughts about that you please let us know you don\u0027t have to gloves on now but you know please let us know what do you think and again at 6:10 tonight in orchard it\u0027s the man a me so now that so we\u0027re gonna continue John he\u0027s going to give us a quick overview of the Directorate report and then I\u0027m gonna go into the you guys know that if you didn\u0027t fill out the wiki did you want to do it right now we\u0027re gonna do public shaming of course it\u0027s its traditional now I\u0027m gonna chain myself first and I didn\u0027t have to fill the wiki so I\u0027m okay but I said before that we didn\u0027t have any chairs and I sort of lied because we actually do have two new chairs because we had a bar so Victor and Gunther we\u0027re sitting there they\u0027re kinda hiding they can stand up and say hello and you know they cheered the DC running bar yesterday I thought the job so thank you for that report on the activities of the raffle right fruits period I\u0027m John Hardwick Amy so that most of you were working group chair so I\u0027m sure you will know this was funny times before the real the real point of this slide really bullet awesome because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:57",
    "text": "firstly they are experts hello closer it\u0027s better in my mouth the routing directory together awesome people they\u0027re awesome because they are experts and they are able at a moment\u0027s notice to just review any rapid rate the draft that I throw them and that\u0027s amazing to have and even more amazing we\u0027ve been doing completely for free and we all get great value out of that so thank you all the the 46 current members of the Directorate rather work you do yeah the work that the routing director would do primarily reviewing drafts grabs either from inside the wrapping area or or even outside the routing area anything that has routing significance they can end up reviewing and the two styles of review as either the review that gets done close to our or outs ITF last call we\u0027re really they\u0027re the guardians of quality the to the spot any last issues it\u0027s like the last chance to fix so you have a pair of wise eyes looking at the draft is really good to have bad but also they do early reviews earlier on in a dress life usually on special requests from a working group chair who thinks you know have a pair of eyes on the draft would would be a value before it before it goes too far down the publication process so I mean both both reviews can happen from time to time also the ABS use the director to make judgment calls or you can advise in particular issues you can read more about them at the wiki so on to the stats I always run through a few stats the ransom to writer at and it\u0027s the end of the year so I\u0027m gonna recap the stats for the whole of the last year so first of all the bar chart on the left that shows rafting Brett wrote reviews that we did I\u0027ve broken it down into the three different IETF meeting cycles in 2017 at all blue columns are the some of the the orange and gray columns so the tallboy columns is the total number of reviews we did the orange columns are the last four reviews and the grey column is the early reviews and you\u0027d see the number of reviews but we get to do is is variable the graph showing dropping over the course of the year but that\u0027s just kind of random fluctuation I think we\u0027ve got a fairly steady load of reviews coming from the area directors a fairly constant stream the number of value early reviews we could ask to do depends on what the working groups are doing any particular moment we didn\u0027t get so many in the last period we\u0027ve got quite a lot more during the start of the year so I mean that adds up to I don\u0027t know something close to a hundred reviews "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:57",
    "text": "that we did during during the course of a whole year so I guess we\u0027re positive people in the directory us about two of these each so we\u0027re not overly burden but right hump bar charts shows wherever reviews are coming from and I broken it down basically by working group show you which word routes givers the most work but also you can see the top line there is grass coming from outside the area I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s the biggest single category that they can come from everywhere else in the ITF so maybe not surprising that more and more of those and then within the routing area the the bar chart shows basically the breakdown between who\u0027s giving his early reviews versus where the last call reviews are coming from you can see that someone can groups are really keen on getting earlier abuse of their documents some some working groups just never seem to want that but that\u0027s fine some time like up to the chairs whether they think it\u0027s going to provide value so the last time I presented stats I got asked a few questions I couldn\u0027t answer about you know the outcomes of the reviews and one of the outcomes look like for in area drassilis is out the area graph so so I did those like those stats for you um pie chart on the Left these are the last call results for grassy area drafts we see that 13 percent we\u0027re just ready no problems 27 percent admits 57 percent had issues we\u0027re issues Connor that\u0027s a bit of a subjective term but it kind of means things we really should fix and pre three percent of the dress word we\u0027re not ready to publish remember the pie chart on the right shows the same but four drafts from outside the area and we see more drafts were ready you address admits you address had issues and but not significantly fewer I think all these really showers are about routing experts are better at finding issues in rabbit and grass which is completely unsurprising but what it also shows is is their routing experts they\u0027re actually pretty good at finding issues in Nam rats and grass which is which is which is great and you know I think really backs of the the value of having having a guru so I mean that\u0027s the end of the update I think I\u0027m looking forward to who were continuing next year you know helping of the level of quality and more drafts anyone got any questions or points I want to raise about the director thank you John and thank you to everyone who participates in reviewing you really help us make all that much better comedy thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:59",
    "text": "so now we\u0027re going to come to the much-awaited part of the agenda which is so you know the drill we\u0027re gonna start from the top again and you can all spell so you\u0027d be ready for alright there\u0027s not always like with all right uh I think we\u0027ve made a lot of progress moving the babble art seems to the standard from a firm metal to standard crack so a big load a base standard RT 6126 including expansion mechanism is important to basketball right now I think it\u0027s in great shape except possibly for security we discussing at the available meeting with me the next one after this one that\u0027s not in speaking pretty calm internal meeting period honestly we\u0027d only one Yahtzee of all of our options thank one point oh yeah we came in here is that not sure that we expect the tighten relationship will then be a three on the complaint solutions in support of what\u0027s been happening what has been happening I were shot here we didn\u0027t meet at IDF 100 but we need to make progress on some documents so I have an excuse why we didn\u0027t update the agenda mm-hmm RFC a two eight two seven nine has been published we have to be architectural we were out in town until 3:00 a.m. I lost his voice my culture in action so the architectures out and pls encapsulation is in editors queue we have a bunch of things ready for us call stop is coming in with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "pretty good clip I think we\u0027ll need to reach other lay some underlay suggestions and I swear once I found my you know dead culture so yeah please do update I understand that if there\u0027s a serious rush please the Ricky at the very last instant people and overwrite each other\u0027s summaries but just to touch briefly on the bureau charter very expecting to work on a document that explains so the the current charters experiment or with some draft that needs to get done to change and I\u0027m hoping because I\u0027m a Ryan I\u0027d optimist to have that reach our turd so that it be standards track before I step down and congratulations on the first RFC that\u0027s awesome see and I was honest I could have told you that the dog ate the entry run dogs are not very hungry for electronic bits Daniella check currently for C camp we had we are seriously considering they\u0027re going for two sessions after the next meeting because we had the 23 drafts discussed and it was a rush rather than a session we we used to have the two design teams we closed the the one on my Twitter but we we would be happy to work with my with money on a microwave if it needed the design team delivered that what they were asked for we have a framework document promote document and the young models or microwave notes the the second design team on transporters nvi is delivering as voila we have read rapture describing a use cases and the gap analysis against the existing solutions in IDF and outside the day Jia young models we have plenty of dama optical packs agreed i p / WT m OT an microwave and and so on and some new your new work we have beyond the 100 gigabit oceania tuxedo net a young model for client lee apologies client layer panels optical transport network client signals summary of the status we have the 1 draft in the editor cube we had one rough day in the ICT processing and we before dat after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:04",
    "text": "we did the IDR falling for a number of drafts but didn\u0027t want to start the polling because people were super busy with her slight preparation meeting preparation so we\u0027ll kick them off after he so just to covered the BT routing ball first of all a lot of really good expense everyone\u0027s very easy to work with and go everything shuffle together well now going into it we had a get a key question we were trying to answer on popular you know babies you know does it make sense for the ITF to increase focus and on the DC Brau TVC fabric area we want to try that again so then as we you know focus in on things it was you know provide you guys didn\u0027t put em in this developing area right what\u0027s going on there discover you know other requirements or characteristics here that you know around routing management resiliency programming that would drive us to Union work and but it wasn\u0027t it was also not the intention essay for the Baku you know directly translated into a general routing working group a working group and PC routing but try to discover what\u0027s going on so some of the highlights requirements discussion there was some good conversation around that the goal there what\u0027s kind of find leading indicators right what uh is there something here to be focusing on there was a growing understanding that there were the number of interesting departments and characteristics they\u0027re all but also not to try to boil the ocean in this topic area right he\u0027s obviously easy to hook them that work that needs to do that growing understanding the problem space might be too large for a single solution specifically so it might be room for additional solution you know feedback from the room shows that you know there was a lot of desire for folks to participate and pretend to work we reviewed some new potential solution work as well as how we\u0027ve seen these things were going on whether working with it you\u0027ve got a school so I can see it thanks so we\u0027re yeah we\u0027re working on getting getting our fund a tional drafts done we had adopted data plain breath between last ITF in this ITF and there were some issues noted in the draft and I think we made good progress this week on discussion of some of the issues and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:05",
    "text": "building some consensus on them so I think that\u0027s going well we also are had good agreement during the meeting to send the debt net flow information model draft to to an adoption call so we\u0027ll be doing the IPR callin and the adoption call on that and we\u0027re beginning beginning work on the node and service parameter definition for the basis for the yang model so that\u0027s basically it for the week we are trying to figure out if if we can manage the logistics of doing a face-to-face in our meeting because we feel we\u0027re at a point where that would help in the progress on on these drafts and but logistics are not easy on that so probably we\u0027ll be taking that to the Lester I Taurus is wrapping its work in heading toward a hiatus we\u0027ve done working last calls on a few on the apology l korean rib graphs that have been an NBA form and today we sent forth the apology grasp the base and the l3 to the is g again to celebrate this i wrote a little poem so if you\u0027re interesting take a look and see yes I do have other talents in life besides reviewing graphs we plan to work in goog last call the following modules in the next six weeks we would love comments the Ltd apology that built the base trip and the DC network topology our last remaining piece of work is to complete the ephemeral datastore we took one pass I had tremendously good feedback from all the net-net mod folks again we are grateful for all their help and we\u0027re moving one piece of work over to the rqwg thank you Jeff thank you Chris they did that this afternoon there was a BM the ng split model which was fairly interesting where they\u0027re doing next generation Benji\u0027s where the edge needs to be light and they\u0027re putting functions in perhaps the data center someplace in the network it was a really interesting thing because they would spawn up additional user agents or additional management "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:06",
    "text": "this made it a really good case for the dynamic data store I wish you enjoying that I\u0027ll be there to try to help you with it so we\u0027re pleased ten-time in ID our next that\u0027s always good to have one thing by the way I Taurus idea and trill on them on Monday I had a wonderful idea is considering the you pls congested really community communities and the BGP and MD a model that\u0027s the network management data store architecture gang model we had give we will probably be releasing be an MVA model within two weeks with the dependency on the revenue policy VLS additions included entropy labels PC discovery and IP segment routing that service chaining someone asked me an interesting question at IDR they said when you approve the GP LS that you would think you would become the BGP LS working group I said that was fun but we\u0027ll pass I did asked the bt pls how they would maintain all this information in the data and how they did their traffic studies I thought they thought I was crazy at first because they just thought they\u0027d sent a little piece of information however sometimes I have a crystal ball so just thinking about the two tripping over and MBA which I also do it pronounceable and then go hard you think so I Esaias we met together with Ostia for the trial of merging the two we\u0027ve been running with merged lists there\u0027s still some you know a puzzle it\u0027s a few negatives but mostly positive and as you heard do it so other than that we also give us a draft stuck in this rough and we have totally controversy going on about how to signal enablement of T protocols and also how to differentiate the data it should have that resolved by the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:14",
    "text": "[Music] okay anyway they are not meeting and they have been somewhat dormant but they did finish their ipv6 work and they have a game model that some in their active you kind of died announce active again but that\u0027s about it they mostly just working on the mailing list listen hi so we are making its mark octa gender so because a few new use cases popping up news we have two new working with items on the idea a new type of LK most important what you guys will still be the the to this document solution other news is the fact that we actually had the security graph out for the ITF last oil and the he came back came back not because of technical issues is just because the chapter that we had now is for publish standard track documents and actually that one was still experimental kind of because we started the work with the previous chart which was experimental solution so that we need a set got take it back publishers are standard tracked so what we do we keep it a little bit in the working good we will move forward a standard track in basic specification and then push just behind being making sure that discordant with many working group is meeting right after this one we\u0027re doing a lot of key lab work you heard the presentation so I won\u0027t go over all of that again but we will be going over multiple extensions to key left and looking for new people that are excited about working on that we will also probably be talking about whether the man a working group wants to keep the lab work within the Manning group or depending on the feedback from from you all if it moves out of the men a working group and how that works we\u0027ve we wrapped up most of the other work almost "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:15",
    "text": "all the other work that we\u0027ve had ongoing deal F was published we didn\u0027t mean it 99 he left was published between 98 and this one we\u0027ve got security threats parole asaram we got multipath 400 far and together that could be me usage which I believe another routing protocol is going to be using that noun that can be public soon is was in the many working group but it\u0027s gonna be published outside of it but that had to be mean usage came out of the work from the second routing protocol that used it and we will probably be talking about whether what we\u0027re gonna do within a working group since all of the active work is now and it\u0027s finished others in do that that depends on what happens with D lapse and what we\u0027re chartered to do is the multicast hoarding information based stuff and we haven\u0027t had a lot of a lot of progression on that issue so something talked with Alvaro and the working group about that so Nicola lemon for amulets we had a meeting on Tuesday which was quite packed women agenda we have five few our system class I like a lot for us even er more between two and three there are also three new working group documents and we have for Iraq as soon as I can statements from PDF environment from I to you and there are also six mission progress reports quite explain what he\u0027d approximant and do the work on together one topic which is not mentioned is that they are also currently looking into md5 which an EDP we are addressing that because I was SEC chair and also this part it\u0027s OMB i3 we met yesterday afternoon but a pretty packed agenda again we\u0027ve recently selected air standards tracking calculation which is genève but we\u0027ve got increasing focus I think on security and OEM support for pigeon even working broke no new artist since last IGF and one document of the RFC editor we\u0027re really hoping to send your need to the ASG pretty soon but we will need a little bit more progress I think on security and we\u0027re also going to initiate some security and transport area reviews with that on the OEM side there\u0027s quite a few new proposals for IBM related to Junaid but I think it\u0027s a little bit stability in the genève header before we send it to ISU "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:16",
    "text": "review so we would really like to just resolve the impact of OEM underneath but we\u0027ve also made some progress on control plane so having a bit of a cheat statement to 40 VPN which is related to the total work that we\u0027ll be doing with best Martin mentioned earlier on the control plane aspects that we really chartered for doing new protocol work in which the centralized control plane we\u0027re kind of looking for looking for some work on young models for Janique we have one for earlier encapsulations EF px9 GPA but we really need some contribution oh let\u0027s be I met this morning a seal indem Cisco Systems met this morning and as Chris mentioned we had a joint meeting the quiet sighs for the first time we\u0027re talking about formalizing that and what the charcoal would look like we don\u0027t have any new I RFC\u0027s they have some waiting on references some of the things that have our highlights is we\u0027re pretty much done with the OSPF p2 segment routing and we\u0027re waiting on some of the other other spring documents both through so those will go to the ISP is one the OSP three extended LSA is clean working with Les Paul we have a shepherd and we\u0027re going to push that through the process is complete possible as far as work in progress we have the LSBF p2 I mean OSPF yang model colorful v2 and v3 that is through the quest of the yang doctor review it\u0027s MDMA compatible compiles and we\u0027d like to get some people to review it we have we have a design team that worked on it we\u0027re all reviewing it and other than that we have a lot of maintenance enhancements work just possibly we\u0027re gonna do some work on security we talked about having the document containing just post via the security considerations that\u0027s it so if I can really quick you mentioned taking a rolling waiting for the main droughts yeah yeah how are you gonna say that they had they had a normative references "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:17",
    "text": "to like no no I understand so you don\u0027t say that December 14th is when the second or other architecture and the use cases everything else is scheduled for the ihe tell-tale okay so that was the big bottleneck the bottleneck was me that\u0027s one hour we should be ready to go so the good news there I mean there are SPF one will go onto the same tell echad if the is is segment a routing document happened to be ready to go at the same time I would cheer [Music] any malice propels we met on Monday afternoon that we met in the last session of the day which worked out well because we ended up going over by about half an hour and so we may end up asking for an hour and a half next time the primary focus of the working group it continues to be fixing problems that have been seen in the field with Ethernet pseudo wires with ethernet frames arriving out of order because either implementations or operators have not been using the control word well when they have been using the control word we\u0027ve now found that there are some router implementations that actually do deep packet inspection past the control word if they see the control would they assume it\u0027s an Ethernet pseudo wire which it may not always be there are other kinds of pseudo wires and they looked on 12 bytes further past what they assumed would be the ethernet header to do ecmp based upon what they\u0027re assuming is an IP header that may not always be the case so they\u0027re doing in a lot of cases they\u0027re doing ecmp incorrectly so what we\u0027re going to be doing is adding advice in the draft to say basically don\u0027t do that and there are much better ways to do ecmp on pseudo wires and we also plan to send a liaison to our SDL partners that make use of pseudo wires other way thank you next we have one draft in the IES GE view what has been stalled on the issue of LTP security which the working the chairs in the routing area talked about on Wednesday morning so we\u0027re working with the MPLS chairs to get this fixed in the amplest working group plus we issued a new revision of this graph to say that that there are changes to LD security coming up and this graph to take advantage of them when they are available and hopefully that\u0027ll clear the path through the IES you review and if you just scroll a bit more so we\u0027ve had two eulerís E\u0027s since the last IETF we\u0027ve been keeping Debra very busy we\u0027ve "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:18",
    "text": "had 16 RFC published in the last two years we have one more that\u0027s in the RFC other is Q as I said there\u0027s one a night est review and right now the ethernet controller draft is our last active working draft we may end up with another one coming out of that net depending on what happens with the data plane draft there so we may have to end up with one more yeah if not we\u0027ll be talking with Debra John harder pce so we met on Monday we have one really major milestone we publish staple PC extensions which is great I think I\u0027ve been standing here the last two years saying we\u0027re about to publish these and now we have so I did a little dance when that happened and I don\u0027t mean to reproduce that here we also published to kill PC but also known as a piece of s also known as piece of paper TOS really important probably two of our essays published this last idea want to optimize Alice viewstate synchronization between the this rumor Network one for service where else please and we\u0027re making lots of other progress on several fronts now that safer pcs published look forward to an avalanche of of RFC\u0027s coming after that they have free would be RFC edited right now one with by ASG and for disk ambassador article so what we\u0027re working on right now is now we have a staple BCE tool in the bag we\u0027re gonna apply that in lots of different directions lots of different EE applications associated to bi-directional LSPs dividing enter and protection with PCE scheduling LSP setup with the sacred PCE and new work coming in is and this is quite interesting is an application for this April PCE as a central controller for the network so it\u0027s sort of taking the next logical step beyond path instantiation and positions of PCE so it\u0027s more like it\u0027s a controller using P surpluses have found interface to the network devices to set up the perhaps Mike me ride or pen we\u0027d met on Tuesday morning with mbone D which is the operational side of multicast which by the way has been a great successful experiment meeting back to back with them and it\u0027s snow longer an experiment "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:20",
    "text": "we\u0027re just going to keep doing it going forward we did share the two and half hours sometimes one working group has more time together and it works out quite well we are making good progress with the riveting topic of gang models for Kim and I KPMG it is very important work that we joke about it and there\u0027s been a lot to get people making some good progress we did request publication for opinion which has been updated with compliance with them nmda we\u0027ve made some good progress with some designated router related work in related work he needs to be presented at him or pin expertise being that him is protocol stripy multicast and not political independent multicast or heater we are protocols and we\u0027ve had publication requested for couple a couple drafts we will continue to work on young models and work on improvements beep in IGMP and MLB as it makes sense yeah Peter Pan a stock parole role in sparkling these new IDs and there\u0027s also lots of requests coming from six dish which is very which we can understand because they extensively use our report protocol and this makes me very happy but you have to reduce set of active members so we have to make choices and see how to go forward so we want to spend two meetings next time bomb having the regular role meeting and other bomb in which we discuss the progress and see how would make priorities and choices about the way forward I think that this is short hope you are doing thank you young yeah okay we have one young model but that\u0027s slowly not going forward there is one person interested it\u0027s me and I hope to get more active members with it okay Chris powers for the routing area working group the two main themes are that the initial wave of yang models is finishing up first wave had keychains VRP riff routing types etc there\u0027s a potential second wave of individual drafts coming in for ribbon gos and policy and probably proxy arp and the routing area yang design team is disbanding after accomplishing their mission the other theme is sort of a traditional reading area working group distributed routing micro live prevention solutions two of them are on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:23",
    "text": "their way I believe one is already in the is G the local delay solution one is nearing working group last call and they\u0027re also to potential tunneling solutions better individual drafts SFC like Tommy\u0027s right so SFC met on Tuesday this week and first of all good news and SH was approved for publication so that that was the main focus of the last few months the author\u0027s did some awesome job there and some more stuff there was some progress on om the Orion framework document made some progress and also there was quite a bit of discussion in the working group about om SFC om in situ om alternate marking and in the next few weeks probably we\u0027re going to see some more discussions about rich are during working with chairs met with the 80s this week and talked about the chartering and there was a bit of discussion about that in the working meeting this week and probably going to continue on the mailing list so unfortunately this is probably the last time that I get to shame the cider working very we\u0027re not filling out the wiki I think sandy is not here and Chris I probably ought to the radiant Year cider didn\u0027t meet this time as if you\u0027ve been paying attention to this they have one draft left that it\u0027s working your blessed ball right now and as soon as that gets published we\u0027re going to close to working group for those of you who care about cider don\u0027t despair we have a cellar office working group that has been meaning [Music] Martin speaking for spring so we didn\u0027t meet last time and so many people complain that we don\u0027t SR was still interesting so we decided to meet we\u0027re seeing the end of the tunnel thank you I thank you all for that for the batch of eight work eight documents be sent to my III and thank you for the thorough reviews cousin I guess that was really helpful and one document is nevertheless returning to the working group and we see new topics emerging these are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:26",
    "text": "clearly controversial some of its training path identification and so on so it\u0027s promising interesting discussions between the 80s and between the working group chairs on how to make sure the work fits in the world right working up and in any case we\u0027ll be having a chattering discussion in spring because for the moment when are allowed to cover these topics status nearly zero everywhere one working up let\u0027s go thank you only run forties click eyelets the bass yang modeling work it\u0027s slowly starting to wind down the tea topology model we had to walk working low class called complete for that there is one issue pending and after that I guess you would be able to take it to put in a publication request for it the TE RSVP models are now an MVA compliant some some of those are more mature than others we should be able to take those to the next step sooner than later in terms of actn we are about the commands last call for the initial set of documents the framework requirements and input model tracks we also did some work for SR our city coexistence the last call for that is complete and we should be able to take it to the next step soon we have two new RFC\u0027s there\u0027s one and RC it is q there are five that are in the first publication request stages and two new adoption trill trill is in the process completing its charter work yes I have two working groups that are completing their charter work I\u0027m always happy to see that happen as a result trophy fourteen fifteen plus documents and three yang documents we\u0027ve been probably the next two months that means if you are on the routing Directorate please please review the trill documents and give us feedback remember that if you\u0027re an ISI is expert or an RPF expert you\u0027ll recognize things we\u0027re closing out in these documents additions for directory assistance mechanism you will recognize if you\u0027re an ISI osorno say if person monthly topology multilevel you will be interested in ECM technology and group key and yes if I\u0027m trying to sell you on reviewing these documents please please we have the isp foreign Shepherd review "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:28",
    "text": "three and working group last call five be working through Glasgow review as well as the three egg models be read rewritten fair and MBA and because we\u0027re not sure but we greatly appreciate those who helped us with the reviews baby thanks so the thing that you missed is the true documents are really wanted and then it\u0027s very easy to do quick reviews and they\u0027re extremely clear so what\u0027s the fast review no I really appreciate that [Music] [Music] so we still have another 12 minutes or like full time together if anyone has any other things you want to talk to Mike please now is the time [Music] if not just a couple of quick plugs related to research pieces there\u0027s the path aware networking research group which meant in the previous session and which a lots are what they\u0027re talking about really does relate to routing it may could be really nice to have a larger routing presence there to help inform and improve some of the discussion and also related to the IRT M the nrw for those of you in the research or near universities are knowing folks you might be interested in applied network research workshop which is going to be in Montreal by HF 102 is open for papers so thank you very much oh and if there\u0027s yeah so thank you very much so are there any other comments or thoughts to things to talk about so let me ask a couple questions because it is Thursday and I am filled with idle curiosity how many of you one second of it how many of you are active in any of the open source projects that are relating to networking how many of you have never heard of any of the open source projects that are related to networking okay how many of you have ideas on how we could do better interaction and how many of you think that there\u0027s technology that\u0027s being developed elsewhere that we would be useful to be a better aware of uh yes because we tend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:31",
    "text": "to be very inwardly focused and I\u0027d like to fix that I don\u0027t have a lot of time though so you\u0027re gonna have to do it instead so please I just want to make an observation just indeed it seemed like there were two different groups or two different sets of groups of working group that met together just go around and they both said positive things about it I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s something that we\u0027re looking to do more up or less or what people\u0027s experiences are in the past with that working out well or poorly I think you know the experience shows it\u0027s working out great in fact not only optimize highest PIM and M\u0026D but I know in the past TC Camden villas have had joint sessions as well as they find common work right so I think I\u0027ve got people around all the yang models and what I said yeah but whatever okay let\u0027s see keV teas right so yes I think that that one thing that that we\u0027re always trying to look at is what are common topics you know we deal a bright the things to come the topic as when ice has two questions about multicast right there\u0027s multicast work being or chartered in a name there\u0027s the pin working group there\u0027s beer that there\u0027s all types of I think opportunities to do that but what I think we need to do is if we\u0027re going to have them to a meeting I think we\u0027re all for that we need to just plan on a headlight so that you get the time and just amplify remember there are virtual interim so it doesn\u0027t have to be a joint meeting that\u0027s happening here though we\u0027re certainly open to that I mean the working groups are a management device the conversations need to happen across communities and we want to make sure that all of the communities of interest for particular topics do you have a chance to get involved [Music] from routing working group we are still looking and to bring in new work new interesting work you might be interested in so this study a theory talking about network virtualization I was thinking maybe to the presentation we thought about modulus edge confusion next date here if you have taught me you think that would be interested something that we might not be aware of come to me contribute tip please let praising myself now we want to take the accommodate just to extend open source as you know we had the hackathon here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:31",
    "text": "and we really so give anything at all you know do it my groups have been really good they got the awardees and so on really encouraged if you have anything make you to that Rick Tyler I was at the open source summit and in those containers conference in Prague a couple of weeks ago and it was very interesting it\u0027s great to see what all the limits and false guys are doing but they do have a general assumption that the network just worked yeah it\u0027s just and then we just use the network and it\u0027s brilliant so there\u0027s got to be an opportunity to educate them slightly because they kind of live at seven there seven down to five and then then the magic happens so it\u0027s kind of anyone\u0027s listening we need to educate them a little bit so I\u0027m really happy that you\u0027ve got there but I think we also need to be educated oh absolutely it\u0027s a two-way street they can educate us on on the buffet food it was in the Prague Hilton like ours and their food was better but our beards are better there\u0027s always lots of topics to learn about okay thank you all very much for coming hope you have a great rest of ETF 100 so of course the best part is done now works for Babel and minae and all of the other ones unless I only know my schedule [Music] [Music] "
  }
]