[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "so trying to read up on on the ITF at ITF list does anyone can should everyone know what RFP is because I'm I'm now at the rfps and contracts um site of the ITF Administration yes and that acronym is like never expanded anywhere but there's further links that also do not expand the acronym yeah so I think the answer to your question is yes so generally if if you have to do anything with contracts in English language then you will be familiar with the term RFP ah okay so okay request for yeah proposal yeah then then after an RFP you might get an RF few of requests for quotation yeah that does ring a bell okay but yes occasionally it it helps to to remember to to remind people that we are an international organization and some of us still speak some other languages as usual let's just wait until for past"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:38",
    "text": "even though you all three are in the notes already this is a useful link for hello Michael"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "okay I should I should have I should have come to Vancouver we are starting to have board game nights now it might well be a oneoff in the absence of a proper social event yeah but why does it have to be a oneoff not saying so I just suspect that well I I don't play games at all so I'm I'm not qualifying but uh I think a lot of people were uh very very interested in in this kind of social event so maybe there should be a repeat okay uh being for pass let's get started uh hi and welcome everyone uh this is the last intering meeting of the co-working group before ITF 1220 uh this is Marco m co are C bman and H manets and this is an official ITF meeting so the not well applies it's about IPR and patents and you have to disclose your knowledge on that uh if you are aware of that and participate in technical discussion or you may otherwise refrain from participating in the discussion alog together and even more important this is about our code of conduct so please be nice and professional uh with each other and the agenda for today is mostly about one item uh progressing the Hands-On uh work on the corlar document driven by issues and PRS on the gab repo and we have cars and driving this with slides and a few PRS merged or not yet uh to discuss I'm not seeing any other item added last minute I think we can really jump into cor CL"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "will need take like from okay okay so you should now all see the slides it's only five slides um I hope this will be mostly discussion and very little slide presentation so we said we were going to uh work on one issue each uh in average um on the corrections and clarifications document uh and um well we are a little bit behind schedule so we we took on four of them uh I think we have uh essentially done two of them and maybe need additional uh discussion on two more of them um I I've listed them here not quite in the the numerical order but in the order I want to uh talk about those so the uh issue number seven uh was an observation about uh the the um meaning of trailing slashes in uh your eyes and um that is currently well defined um but it does make sense to add some clarifying text and and examples and uh thanks to Akim for pointing out the lack of examples um and uh what pr32 did was uh provide a formal addition so this is uh a text that that eventually will have consensus of the working group it's not entirely clear how we do this but at least the pr is merged um after some discussion uh and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "um I think the the only question that that we could still discuss is uh do we actually have enough examples at this point so we have one example with no trailing slash and one trailing slash we have one example with one two and three uh trailing slashes and we have um one example that actually has a non-empty uh path component uh before having Z1 trailing slashers and I'm wondering whether we need any other examples would it would it make sense to have at least one example um where there's also the the question mark in there just to make sure that the the cont um the that context is C especially maybe the um uh like like uh not having a slash and then a question mark okay yeah I will recheck these two and I had in mind those three Corner cases I mentioned last time I don't know which were covered by this uh merging but I'll check again okay great but definitely having something after the trailing SL the question mark or or Al fragment identifier might be uh useful okay so um took not of that um the next sorry sorry I mixed up my mute my mute button um it might make sense I think to swap around the The Authority SL Fu with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "authority SL because the latter is the like regular case that people will expect and should handle and multiple slashes are something where I think that while clients should handle that properly it's perfectly reasonable for a server to say yeah like I don't deal out those U so all of them are invalid um and maybe maybe even State something about that is like that that a server has not um is not required to do this I don't know whether that fits yeah I've taken a note of that so let's go forward to issue 8 and back to pr3 1 um that that is an old issue that essentially was handled via an Arata report uh because an erata report can have the the necessary uh impact on aenna and here in this case aenna actually updated the uh text in the registry uh and we have the the RAR report as something that attaches to the text in the document so we are kind of done um what the pr just did was pointing to this a report and uh one question I put up was do we want to copy the additional notes in the erata report over to this document and the answers I have heard so far are no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "so unless unless these notes uh need to be exposed in a better way or need some editorial work on them um I think we are done we're really done with Issue Number Eight okay Next Issue Number 10 hello um the term request UI is not uh defined uh in the document and uh pr33 provides a formal addition so text that is intended to go uh into the the document and that is merged because the first round of of looking at this text has been done and uh I think we need to to spend a little bit more effort on on checking whether the addition is correct um and another question is uh what about the relation between Target UI and base UI as defined in Section 8 of 7252 so 7252 has a question about has a section about multicast requests and uh these of course have uh base U uh for responses um that that is different from what actually was sent in the request uh I think this is adequately explained in Section 8 so I don't think we have a lack of explanation there um but of course the text in Section 8 again assumes that uh we already understand uh what what the original request youi U was so maybe we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "need to to check this and and make the relation a little bit more uh explicit and what what makes this a little bit more more difficult to do than it should be is that uh actually the HTTP specification which we mostly are trying to emulate here um has gone through different terms over time so 70 to 30 uh had a request URI in 9110 this is called the target uh URI and uh of course at the time we when we do did 72 52 uh we couldn't know that this would happen uh to http so we are still using the request UI term and one question is do we want to uh copy emulate what the the uh RFC 9 9110 work did or do we just uh continue to use request UI and we still have to do the the work on relating that to the base UI so HTTP doesn't have the the Section 8 uh work because HTTP can do multicast so they don't need to do that kind of mapping um so that there's a limit to which we can copy httv here any positions on this none without having good suggestions for Drs and I don't have any there yeah so I I was expecting that we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "wouldn't make much progress in the meeting on this uh but we just note this as something that still needs work even though the pr has been merged the issue is not yet closed and uh we we uh probably should uh look at HTTP and look at how request UI and Basi uh relate to each other and add some text um that that explains how and why this is different from each other good then let's go to the last issue uh on the list uh the issue that I have termed match boxing uh it also could be uh called how do you keep uh your observe relationships alive while something changes below you um and uh right now we have some some pretty good understanding of what the the current state is what what does the document say and uh we generally seem to think this is well defined at least for 7252 and dtls so there is some clarifying text in PR 4 that that has been merged um and um uh but that's not the whole picture because uh the specific scenario that is discussed in 7252 is the dtls scenario the dtls 1.2 scenario the unextended dtls 1.2 scenario I probably should say and um the the opportunity we have here the sometimes people see opportunities as bugs because we haven't taken the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "opportunity but that's not a bug that's just a um unfulfilled opportunity the opportunity is that this well- defined status actually is undesirable because it causes state to go away with without any actual need for the state going away and um there are three approaches listed in the current text uh one is to actually is explicitly address the opportunity in new documents for instance Kudos uh 1 a uh to actually write up how existing extensions uh could uh use this opportunity so 9146 is the the connection identifier and uh the connection identifier for dtls 1.2 and of course there's also an connection identifier for um uh dtls 1.3 and we could write up how this connection identifier uh can be or must be used for continuing beyond the dtls epoch so this this might be another set of clarifications I'm not sure we are in a way find enough state for that or it might just be additional um specifications and uh then of course number two on this list comes into effect um if the the if using the opportunity is a change then we may have to require some negotiation so both sides of the communication know uh whether State survives such an underlying change event or not and um so for instance dtls is is able to have connections survive a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "change in IP address and uh that's of course something we probably also want to look at for for Oscar so can can I continue to use my my oscar context after a change of IP address and and things like that uh probably need to be negotiated because they are not being done today and so uh one side doesn't know whether the other side is doing this and uh one side also doesn't know whether the other side actually would work if they are doing this so this is why we need negotiation here and Mar say something about pr36 Ken one comment to to raise from Aim kuss I think it was a comment on Gab issue um he suggested to consider also the connection IDs introduced in ds12 as an extension and I think they're natively part of ds13 instead yeah that that's why this slide lists 9146 but this is the connection ID oh okay DTS 1.2 but of course the the 1.3 case also needs to be addressed and and right now the the text that we have in 72 52 May actually be very undesirable because the functionality is there and um the text essentially says we are not using it and um um yeah that that's U the the point about existing documents that that actually make this opportunity rather easy to use but we haven't said that we actually do so is there anything you want to say about p"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "36 that's the next one right do you have another slide for it or no ah well yeah I can say something um I had some discussion with Kon yesterday on on closing the original uh 34 or or mergin it uh to make it simpler to create a new uh follow-up PR now 36 uh right on the main branch um following the discussion we had two weeks ago at the inter meeting uh this was was about revisiting the initial part on on the Oscar and related universe and to cover in three different parts uh what this means when you use um oscore and when you use kudos for updating the key material of uh of oscore and what it means when you use um group oscore um instead and there are different aspects that um in a similar Way come back for all the three different cases and one is the the surviving of observations um in case essentially the the security context is changed and how it is delicate to handle in a in the correct way the the protection of responses if if those are protected with a security context uh different than the one used uh to protect the request and um chronologically we first noticed these things uh all in group of score when working on that and then with with the work on Kudos we um sort of um brought up the same the same fixes or or updates uh also in the interest of uh of oscore so the pr is about that and it's intended to discuss the match boxing for oscore with Kudos or group oscore please review Caren already gave some comments yeah I I said that I I have a problem with the terminology has no impact"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "on because that would u mean that the existing text has a well defined meaning for this situation and I don't think so uh so we have to be a little bit more explicit than than just saying has no impact on uh okay at least I think not in terms of token and message ID because all score group of score are agnostic of that basically yeah Marco you know what you think the existing status is uh I don't know what I think the existing status is uh so having no impact is is not something I can properly review so we really have to clarify this okay so this is this right now this is kind of a trapdoor spec if you already know what it says then you can agree with it but if you don't it's not quite clear what it says so would it help to to start with saying that um that information is not an input to the Oscar processing for example that information well token values and message ID values they are used as usual as I understand for the uh for the message coupling and and matching but U they don't play a role in the Oscar processing okay yeah that that's certainly something that needs to be said I think it would would help to to have a little bit of text also on why the security properties uh continue to work in in stating that they are not part of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the oscco processing it might also be helpful to consider that um oscco can be securely used across proxies and that the tokens and message ID values if they exist on both legs in the first place um uh will change in the course of that without any impact on thanks good point yeah I I was also thinking they are not taken into account for example when when building the the external aad data structure for for the message processing which is effectively the The cryptographic Binding between a request and the corresponding responses that that doesn't consider message DN token so it's a it's a different level of match boxing entirely in the control of oscore and separated and In The Same Spirit you can update the the key material and the security context um without touching the the token involved especially in in a long exchange so I see a separation of domains but that is the more hairy part right I mean yeah regular score didn't allow that and if you do that you have to be careful yes exactly so that's why in Kudos we we introduced that um confirmation that both peers have to give each other um to confirm they know what they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "doing and and safely preserve the observations well group of score instead Builds on the group manager as the centralized manager of identifiers of nodes in this case yeah so coming back to what Carson said about negotiation in Kudos we have that kind of negotiation so both peirs know exactly what they support and want to do which are gos to preserving observations right and and in in group Oscar we have the unilateral negotiation that comes from the group manager saying how it is right yeah so with help to elaborate more on on all these points yes yeah but but fundamentally if I have to pick one is those values uh don't take part in any of the um Oscar related or security processing yes so you have your own way of linking a response to request right I mean in a sense I guess the only way they take part is that in some situations you end up retrieving the security context use based on the on the token [Music] so would that be an attack"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "vctor unlikely I think because if you end up not finding the token or finding the wrong token the message processing would fail so there there's enough entropy in the security context that an attacker cannot create two security contexts that might be confused in interesting ways with each other it should really not be possible because they should end up having unique Master secret and meaning unique sender and recipient Keys unless you configure things very strangely on your device to have the same Master secret for multiple contexts and master even even then you must own for each Master secret and each Master there must um all the all the center IDs must be unique that's a very hard requirement for M yes so I think that that's some text that should be in in the [Music] document for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:09",
    "text": "so my next question would be is there enough that I will get before the next cut off that uh it makes sense to do a Das 5 for the meeting yeah I need to think what what exactly to write and where because we were discussing points specific of Oscar I think more more than Kudos and I think those points are applicable as is for group of score right but again I think this needs to be clarified yeah yeah yeah yeah um one curious question for the general understanding um you mentioned in the context of dtls which now has the ability that um connections can switch addresses um that you think that osore cannot do that because as far as I understand um for osore the client address can change at any time and possibly the server address can are subject to the usual like um clients that has to find them uh problems uh they just can change during an observation because then the underlying transport observation gets cut other than that I think I don't remember any requirements from from osore that say that they are bound to some specific transport or transport addresses yeah but does that mean that every implementation will ignore the the incoming transport address the incoming centers transport address and find the security context"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "instead is that something we require implementations to do um you you should find it based on the the key identifying thear option I think that's exact that would be what those scfc States so if if there are KS that are reused on a single uh server then those Will May need the kid context to be provided and oscore is a bit wobbly on when to send that um but I haven't seen the kid context in Practical us a lot yeah you can use it this it be great so after all of an extension of of coab so if the the underlying coab layer doesn't give you the data then you you cannot look for the security context true what do you mean the the the underlying um C implementation doesn't have to give you anything because you look at the K message not going to give the the message in the first placeas how would you kind of so the the response needs to come from the so in on on all the transports that we have the response has to come from where the request was sent that is still un kind of osore doesn't alter [Music] that right so that that's maybe one observation we also should record [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:10",
    "text": "yeah oscor in itself doesn't use the five tole basically no osore use OS puts data into the request response model and the re response mod may or may not have a five tle or any a token or any other um identifying criteria other than the client will know that the response came back was that particular request was like an internal identifier file handle whatever right so everything we we uh do below Oscar to handle um changes in the transport address are trans turn to osore but they need to work enough so osore actually gets the data thanks correct [Music] and um a server receiving a request requires um exact hints um and be pointed to the security context to use for decryption um a client receiving a response um well uh wants to use the the same context used to protect the request corresponding to the just Reed response and The Binding between the two is enforced by means of yeah the the custom approach of allcore the external e"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "ad and that abstracts away from underlying details that the transport has to worry about but not oscore in itself yeah you may actually change transport all together across proxies that may act as cross proxies and still all is fine for the endpoints that may not even know about without any change happening on the way or you might even the you might even so as long as you are not doing something where the the co-op mechanism that you're using says hey this has to come from the same address you might even switch addresses as a parent to the server between two requests uh in onion oscore we made explicit precautions to say that for some contexts you may not want to look them up by kid but you may want to require that they are coming from some some underlying context and then the kid I I think we already have a security and privacy consideration this respect in the Oscar capable proxis document that you suggested Christian on the server side say again please I was writing and didn't you had a similar comment in the past for the Oscar capable proxies document in the interest of the origin server and we added a security and privacy consideration on um yeah on the server that should do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "additional check U before just run and decrypt the request yeah right that is where that full statement is now and I think um onion Oscar just references that like see there for how to do it yeah otherwise um a malevolent client that has a separate score association with that server can can try to provoke that server to reveal itself and it Network position even though via trial and error while the intention of that server will be to remain hidden behind the reverse proxy yeah yeah at some point we may reach the situation where we say oh this really needs to be a separate document but let's collect the points in in the cor Cloud document uh for now and uh see whether we can keep at least some of the the information simply enough that it's uh it can stay in here on the topic of splitting does it help to have a separate section or subsection about the Oscar Universe actually yes it start getting a bit big yeah yeah yeah so there is a subsection I think uh right now on on this match boxing and uh it really makes sense to have some initial uh considerations that that apply to everything or at least the most basic situation and then have a sub subsection that does dtls and a sub"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "subsection that does sore okay and we probably also should have a brief mention of CB over TCP as well um speaking of C over TCP um multipath TCP could get similar topics as dtl as dtls because that too can um switch addresses many basically mid yeah which intip means you need a new TCP connection there is a new TCP connection being established but the um the application that uses multipath TCP will not really notice kind of will not have there or let me phrase it differently there is no unique new connection through which the request then comes from right so we would need to to um use some form of connection identifier abstraction that mptcp provides I don't even think we have to deal in those identifiers it's just that the expression the peers IP address that we occasionally use for example for the implicit Rost is not as unique as we think that doesn't mean that we can use the M ptcp connection identifier it just means we means we need to be a bit more careful about assuming that something is unique that may not be yep"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:23",
    "text": "okay so I think the best thing that could happen here is that uh we get a few PRS that that have texts that may be overlapping maybe contradicting itself but we we can merge that and then continue processing uh this it is much better if we have uh attention on all the the items we have to look at uh then not having attention on on those aspects we haven't solved yet yeah agree yes Ken do you prefer to merge uh 36 as is or do you prefer me to add some text already I think it would benefit from at least clarifying the term no impct but uh if if you think it's natural to add more text to this uh we we can then later restructure this um but uh as I said it's much better to have the text right uh so I'll keep building on this then I think so uh then the section restructuring can wait yes I'll leave it as is about that okay we could do the section restructuring between the cut off and and the meeting yeah but I I think as new points that are also part of the clarification with we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "touched um the actual Oscar based mapping between request and response and the awareness that Oscar needs to have or doesn't need to have of anything underneath and the the hints or guidance that a message recipient is expecting to to know what to do and in all this uh yeah those two values token message ID fundamentally playing a role so I can try to clarify around these lines yeah and you can introduce a section on the subsection on Oscar that's that's not a problem U we don't have to have a finished product at any yeah yeah specific point in time before we actually finish it sounds good great so everybody knows what they have to do I think I know uh for one yeah I think it's really great that that this this this if you has covered a lot of things that that are really hard to find for for uh new uh users of the protocol so uh I think we're doing something very useful uh here uh so I'm I'm quite happy with this even if we we don't have all issues done by the end of the year or something um I think we are learning a lot and we should write this up it may a few iteration and um initially I may miss some things that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "are maybe super clear implicit to me but it's worth spilling out yeah that that's the old problem about eliciting tested knowledge yeah uh okay but this is uh one PR uh still on that issue n uh did you plan to have followup PRS on other is yeah some of the previous ones well um on on on nine definitely there will be more than one p of time um on um 10 uh definitely we will need PRS we don't even have a PR that that addresses the base UI uh thing um on eight I think we're done and uh on seven I also think we are done modulo the additional examples that Christian uh mentioned so that might have another PR right you also had a few minor comments on on the the pr I created yesterday I tried to reply okay are you okay with the responses I haven't looked at the I will do okay so are we done for today looks like so unless there's any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "other point that anyone wants to discuss heard none seen none anywhere and this this is again the last meeting before ATF 1220 where we got two hours uh for now confirmed in the European late afternoon evening of Wednesday 24 okay uh if there's no other comments thanks for this discussion I believe this will be a recurring working item for the next months and thanks Christian and rard for taking notes much appreciated to you one very short aob on what we talked about earlier in uh regarding ITF infrction IPv6 uh yeah uh the internet is making kind of I found this on Master now and yes the internet is making fun of us yeah please fill in the notes yeah course this thing something I have released some document or something that people found amusing oh okay I6 on yeah they don't to oh will yeah thanks for the pointers okay uh thanks a lot again talk to you soon talk to soon thank you bye bye"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:25",
    "text": "e for"
  }
]
