[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:08",
    "text": "okay um Ari is coming so we can wait one minute so he can join and then we start thanks here hello AR can you hear us Aris can you hear us okay can you hear me H hello hello hello great hi sorry I was saying um I went to the WebEx meeting the internal one that we use instead of this one that's why I was late I realized why I was wondering why no one was connected and well that explain things okay no problem thank you for joining okay great uh okay I think I think we could start great so welcome to the ITF Ro interim H notice that this session is being recorded and uh this session is aligned with the not Wells so please read carefully and as you know we expect the as always respect to each other and that we follow the guidelines and the policies of the ATF on this matter so first of all I want to welcome Aris as a role coach um do you want to introduce yourself a bit yeah sure so hello everyone I'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "starting my official responsibilities it's been a little bit of time but this is the first meeting where I'm uh uh participating in this capacity so my name isaris kutam Manis I'm associate uh professor at EMT Atlantic in France it's an engineering school uh my uh background has been in research in the industrial lity World evidently given the background of the working group as well um it's been something like five or six years since I first started participating in the ITF um and well this is where I start in this role so I don't know if that covers it okay great thank you very much Aris we are very happy to have you here and once again again big thanks to Dominic for the amazing amazing job we are very grateful Dom thank you thank you it is a pleasure and honor to serve the group thank you very much and I think we will continue having you as a co-author of the draft and with reviews and everything so we will have Dominque still with us so that is great um okay these are the resource remote participation ones um please volunteers to the menu takers um yep so this is the agenda why the agenda um so we will go for the introduction and then uh we Conrad will explain the advance of rnfd then we will mention the new version of today of enrollment priority then discuss mopex and finally n extensions and then when open floor for every"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "one H then this is are the draft status H how the verel is in ad valuation the projection was submitted to the isg and extensions is in progress IIs will explain more today and the enrollment priority has a new version today Michael can provide more information mopex Dominique will discuss about it um yes it's in progress and the at NFD we have um a new version that we can discuss about working last C and then are some dra are waiting for attention just like a capabilities and storing route act okay the Milestones um are the same so they have not changed since the update about this year uh about the G issues in GitHub and op have two issues at nftd we believe that the version three address all the open issues and extension has two open issues and the noral priority we believe that the version 11 address all these issues then for the regular meetings we were thinking when we should have the next interim maybe September uh and for the ITF next ITF we think we will not participate but we aim to participate in the November one yeah so we will do a doodle for probably September because I think July and August is a vacation months so September I think will be the best um yeah so Conrad I will pass the control of the slides okay great now you should have the control of the slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "yes I do let me just zoom to the full screen okay so welcome everybody um I have like 25 minutes reserved I hope I will make it faster but uh let's see uh so about the rnfd draft uh so since there's been a while uh from the last presentation of the draft I will start with a small um recap um what rnfd is uh it states for uh it is actually about fast border router detection in rle Al fa detection in repo uh so why consider aler crashes in the first place so you probably know that alir has this special role uh it acts as a doac cout um and it coordinates many actions so this means that uh uh it is also more involved because of that so uh it's logic uh contains additional actions compared to for instance uh resource constraint nodes um so this also means that uh it Hardware is also more involved and the software running on it is more involved uh and it requires a te power supply uh in many deployments this power supply is hard to back up so provision like a redundant power supply and so on so in short um I'll be albl are can be subject to failures to crashes and U we should consider them um so what happens in Ripple so without without rnfd if if the ALR crashes so if the do rout crashes so first of all um when when a do cout crashes this means that uh all links to the uh Doak root actually become uh down so they go down and in Ripple uh like this failure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "detection is done per link so you detect failures to your for instance of the links to your neighbors and in principle this means that in order for a um Doak rout to be considered as that actually all its uh incoming links have to be um detected as down uh if there is a Roots neighbor that still believes that it's link to the dead rout is up then it would advertise a path and uh this would create like problems in the do so this spe is of course non-existent but the advertisement will be still there uh the next problem is that crash detection um for the links is typically reactive so this means that it may take some time to actually observe that a link is dead especially in low data rate applications um uh and uh learning that by all nodes so not only like a specific name neighbor of the route or just on Roots neighbors that the route is down uh is also slow and requires some traffic so first of all when you when the network detects subsequent links with the roote as as down uh then the nodes will try to locally rebuild that paths advertise New Paths and so on so this will lead to repeated Power Parent changes in the Doak uh those uh parent changes of course won't lead to anything so what will happen is typically some loots Loops will be formed uh because of the inconsistencies in in nodes ranks and all parent changes ESP ones that lead to significant rank changes trigger trickle timer assets so this means that uh a lot of control traffic may actually um uh be triggered because of um of those parent changes so the idea behind rnfd is addressing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "those problems by explicitly coordinating monitoring of of of an ldr between nodes so that's the first principle the next one is uh we want to avoid probing all links so if there are sufficiently many links that we believe May indicate that the rout is dead then we actually stop probing any extra links uh we proactively check for a possible crash uh when we suspect that the route might have crashed and then an important goal was also that rnfd should be as independent of Ripple as as possible so this means that it shouldn't require any changes to the protocol so it should like um operate sort of in in parallel and just Trigger reple or affect reple only when when it has made some decision um so how it works uh in a nutshell so it divides uh nodes into two groups so Sentinel nodes and acceptor nodes Sentinels are Doak Roots neighbors that monitor that are explicitly designated to monitor the roots status so there are typically multiple of them uh but uh not every neighbor of the root node has to be a sentinel so um some nodes need not be Sentinels um others can acceptors are any other node so in particular the do rout is also an acceptor so the role of the acceptors is just to propagate observations in the network and potentially make a decision so for instance if the Sentinels are not connected so they don't form a connected graph uh but the entire network is somehow connected then the acceptors will be able to make the final decision so how uh those roles maps to the algorithm again in a fuge natural so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "individual Sentinel nodes uh detect crashes of their links with the doac root so using the normal mechanisms rles mechanisms they detect that this specific link to the doac cout is actually down and they exchange this information uh in a new option that rnfd introduces um this option is appended to Dio messages or dis messages um and just link local messages uh so this option carries the let's say number of Sentinels that believe that the root may be dead or actually consider that links with the root to be dead um and based on this number any note so in principle a sentinel but also an acceptor can make a decision that the number of Sentinels that consider that the root the roote as that is sufficient to actually uh decide that the route is that so to make a global decision and propagate this decision um so this is sort of like a consensus like protocol uh so the draft um had a couple of versions so the previous version was 02 and it was subject to four reviews uh by svr an you can take a look at this review on the mailing list and it was uh on November submitted on November 16th 2023 Mar cars uh and it was also in November 27 7th This Time by Victoria this was from routing directory and it's on the mailing Leist but also in data tracker and also by Chris lvic from security directorate and it was like in on the 2nd of December so it took me a while to actually address those comments uh so first of all before talking while I did so big thanks to all the people that did the review so they were really uh in depth and uh well thought provoking in some places so uh uh I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "really had a nice time actually thinking about the the issues raised and and the problems so big thanks uh to the reviewers uh so I've addressed the comments on the mating list on on the 20th of March this year uh and those actually replies were also connected to a new um draft version so it updated from version so the draft updated from version two to version three uh you can take a look at the changes from the link I've prepared from from this div tool so um there are multiple changes a lot of them are editorial changes uh and I believe that they really improved the readability of the draft and also the ordering and stuff so so so so definitely definitely um even the editorial changes were were really uh necessary uh but there were also a couple of uh bigger changes that I'm would like to highlight today so one is that um I so forgive me but I I don't remember now who proposed this specific change I will just go go over the changes so uh one thing um that was proposed is that it would be good to actually provide some alternative Solutions so for instance if so rnfd is like an opting produ so you can you can either implement it or not but the problem of Border router crashes is is more General so one suggestion was that we could consider in the draft some other solutions to alleviate the problem and this uh this is done in the new section 1.3 which briefly discusses other solutions that they are discussed a bit more depth in the email um another uh issue was um uh was with uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:06",
    "text": "check another issue was um was with false positives and what you can do um uh to avoid false positives like for instance switching the decisions uh and then the suggestion was that we can mention some additional mechanisms for um increasing the confidence of individual decisions so when we are in this verification phase of rnfd so it's like a special phase in which a node may actually decide to verify whether its suspicion is valid or not um then we can can increase the confidence of these mechanisms or um if uh those transitions have do happen for instance because the link is sort of unpredictable uh then we can limit the number of transitions per node so from some point in time a sentinel will no longer consider itself Sentinel because simply it's link with the rout is too unstable and that's it so basically that's what this paragraph is about um the next change was uh so this was like a discussion of um some rules that what happens uh when we um uh change the um bit length of cfrcs and there is like an entire algorithm there like a number of rules but uh these rules um may not be uh actually straightforward to uh match together uh so this extra paragraph actually uh happen explains what happens uh at the root node so how how do these rules how do these rules affect the root node so this is simply a match of of the previous rules into into a paragraph so so that you have like an explicitly stated what a root node does according"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "to those rules um and then the last um larger change uh was uh extracting um like a single threshold which is uh this uh last threshold in the new version so rnfd cfrc saturation threshold so previously it was like a magic number let's say uh currently it was extracted as a threshold and then uh I also to change the order of of those constants uh so in my opinion to to better let's say um reflect their not maybe importance but relevance or whatever um yeah so these were the major changes um so we got replies and Ines can me can correct me if I'm wrong from Anand and from cars on on May 14th this year that um that um changes and and my re address their um their remarks uh there is one small remark from Cars to address I I I will do this uh in the next version so .04 so this regards the the threshold um uh this suspicion growth threshold so the the middle one in version three uh which is why this specific number number so I will just add one sentence um uh and I think that's it uh so the question is what what to do next and I can now return control to iness or she can take back control okay thank you very much Conrad uh thank you very much for addressing all the comments and for the presentation and yes the ER comment from carless you can address alongside the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "comments with from the working group last call so no problem and um I think we can proceed with the working group last call based on that we have had two reviews and the routing and security directory reviews so I think the document is ready for the working class call um some additional comments from the participants okay then we can start by email today the working grou last and for two weeks uh and the shepher Michael it's okay to to be the shepherd right yep I um did I I think I finished it already oh okay we did it a while ago I will review the to see if it needs updates but I thought I did it a while ago okay great yeah uh a year 2023 318 I will revise it yeah um or I'll read it see if it needs revision okay great thank you very much okay great thank you very much yes um you're right okay we can proceed with the enrollment priority uh Michael do you want to give some comments I see that you yes um sure so I didn't do any slides or anything so I uh went through the um two outstanding reviews one from Dave Thor at the end of March and one from uh Rat uh at the end of January uh there's two emails the list there a version 11 posted uh it's not that dramatic but it's uh lots of little"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "knits um so that's good and I think it's ready for working group last call thank you very much Michael I agree with you I think this document is ready for working R La call and we have got the retin directorate and security directorate we have got review from dve Taylor and uh yeah and we will get some other reviews as well but I think after rnfd we can proceed with this document as working group last call some additional comments or questions for participants I think I promise to to take a look as well on on my side but uh I haven't manage to do it I'll I might be able to do it the next two days so if there's something I find I'll let you know but normally we can progress with the with the last call yeah great thank you thank you very much okay we can proceed with the next mopex Dominique um okay so we have been working on this draft for a long time it's been uh quite uh silent for a while um the I think the last Alvaro provided a a great review probably a year back and I think it was taken into account and in November I think I suggested to reot the a section that deals with what do we do when we reuse the same old values 0 to six that are already been used for mop the mode of operation into the new field mop extension moex um and so originally the text said that when we ruce the same old values it means the same old modes except uh with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "an improved Behavior with some options been made mandatory and that was not quite clear for a specification because it didn't provide it didn't say exactly what was the the the options that were made mandatory or anything like that so I suggested to reward that uh saying we preserve the values 0 to six with mopex we don't say quite specifically what to do we just say that they relate to the old ones and the new behavior for these values will be specified somewhere in the future but we have the values reserved for that um and and so basically uh using the old values within mopex as opposed to within mop uh added one bit of of information saying this is a new flavor of the old mode and then Pascal came and said in an email u a month ago two months ago said well this is a this not making a good use of the bits that are available because uh we can still use the old mob for um 0 to six design telling which mode we are talking about and then we have the M packs field the existence of a mopex field which is a flag and then we have the full content of the mopex field uh to provide more information that we can make good use of like having version numbers for the old mode so we uh the old map with the old value would be the legacy mode of operation and then if we have mopex together with mop then it means something more and it could be v0"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "V1 V2 V3 of the old mode so that's interesting in terms of information theory of course it's making good use of the bits that we have available but um slightly skeptical I think it's getting very um intricate and I'm not sure we need it so I was uh I was hoping Pascal would attend the meeting and and maybe I'm uh curious to hear your opinion about this was my explanation clear enough or do I need to clarify thank you Dominque I I I I remember the I checked the email was on 8 April but I didn't tood very well what Pascal means like how can you use mopex as a version number for existing mop values I don't understand that part right so I this is what I understood from Pascal's email and this is what I tried to explain in the last two or three minutes so the the idea is that the numbers that we have in the mop right now are are amend are extended if you if you put them in a mopex so mopex number three is not the same as mop three I think is his point I think this point goes even further than that he says uh if we have mob free and the existence of the mopex field then mopex could be a different thing and could be the version of mop free this is how I read this sentence um yeah that's even more so so yeah that sounds a bit complicated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "for me I would guess if the if you're in the old world in the Legacy they work as they are and if you have the flag activated then it can be completely new I don't see but uh I'm not super familiar so the thing is the way the way it's described right now if say you have two different values in mop and mopex then you have to specify what happens and um what Pascal says instead of resolving conflicts just exploit the the added uh information containers that you have at least that's my interpretation of this so how would you know if uh how to parse the packets well are you is it always unambiguous whether uh you are in the new or the old um the thing is um the the mopex mopex extension is an option it's either there or not there um but you're right maybe if we have the old mob and a passor doesn't know of the new option does it create an ambiguity maybe so yes you can just say that the whole network is in the is aware of the extensions and in that case it's simple or you can say that everything is in the unaware of those the new things and it will just operate in the old one but I guess the idea is to be able to to shift bit by bit not the whole network at the same time uh um I'm not sure that's a point I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "think the point is uh um using the old modes in a in an improved Behavior by you know removing some of the unnecessary never implemented stuff of Ripple or uh mandating some stuff that was added later and is considered optional um that was that was a sentence that is in the draft uh right now it says uh if we use the same old value for uh within mopex as a new mode then it's it it is supposed to be the same mode of operation storing non storing Etc uh but with different Behavior or augmented Behavior which was vague and and that's the reason why I started rewriting the thought okay well I think we'll just uh ask Pascal on the mailing list if he wants to elaborate on this remark yeah that would be great yeah thank you very much Dominique sure okay then when we have the new version we can proceed with the reviews at least two reviewers and then with the routing and security directory reviews and then we do we do have a new version right now the question is whether we want to do even better with Pascal's ideas or we just dismiss so let's give a chance let's give Pascal a chance to elaborate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "and see yes I agree yes we we need to work on these uh what he coming on 8 April and then proceed yes so yes if there is a better way to do it why not but um if we can keep it simple it will be ideal yeah yeah I think U yeah I agree to keep it simple um but it would be nice to um understand what Pascal means because I think he said that now is the to contradict the values based in the email uh so yeah but I agree to keep it simple but it will be nice not to that the mop and mopex they don't contradict each other uh so yeah let's see what Pascal says I think yeah yeah okay um okay um further comments or questions okay um then n extension just a sec I'm W my last comment okay so uh I'm taking off my co-chair hat and uh taking on my draft uh writer uh hat and putting on my draft writer hat so uh the draft has been in the works for some time now uh I haven't been able to advance very quickly we have some feedback there's uh just a couple of issues to resolve but one of them is a bit bigger that's why it's taken a bit of time so uh the main thing that's been"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "uh uh slowing things down is uh the proposal that came from Pascal initially to try to rewrite the draft and make it uh more generic so the the draft proposes a way of um basically doing routing in a way which uh has higher reliability uh um but uh in defining the the draft we basically extend Mr Hof so we take existing uh functionality that that is proposed in Mr Hof and uh we say basically in these cases we do whatever Mr Hof does it's a way of avoiding repetition um however after some discussion and this was a proposal from Pascal uh it turns out that it might be possible to extract this dependency on on Mr Hof and make it more generic in this sense it would be able to Define it as an orthogonal proposal to all possible objective functions it would be an add-on that someone can enable on uh any objective function which uh follows the specification of an objective function so in that sense it would be more modular um this requires a little bit of thinking I I I had promised to do it earlier but I didn't manage to to finish it so the idea is that uh I I I will propose a a different version normally it should be much shorter as well which implements this and if this is reasonable we can keep that otherwise we'll keep the dependency on Mr Hof depending on whether it it looks as this can be done this more generic way so yes this is the status right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "now right thank you very much Adis um comments okay thank you um then open floor additional comments or questions okay then uh thank you very much for attending and we keep Communications by email thank you have a nice day have a nice day bye thank you very much bye bye thank you byebye thank you byebye thank you very much to people that write in the minutes as well thank you very much on thato I'll keep publishing them just another few minutes for for for"
  }
]
