[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "Fashionably on time. Perfect. Shelley? Let's go. It's Maria will be here in a moment. Passionate in time. Welcome, everybody. Here we go. Our area director is here. We may start. Welcome to the Jmap and extra combined session. We have Jmapp first extra afterwards. The agenda we have has slightly more time for extra. So hopefully things will fit in. We have I think more than I expected So timing is pretty tough. Me that thing. Shall we get straight into it? It's already the 2nd day of the ISF. Hopefully, everyone here has seen the note. Well, if you haven't, please do just search a ATF note well so that you can read these things Yeah. Thanks. This tells you the conditions under which you're operating here that your work is public that, yeah, there are certain requirements around intellectual property. So please do make sure you're aware of this, before slash as you contribute. Also have the note very well. Around harassment and behavior, again, again, do, please. Make sure you are compliant with this and behaving yourself appropriately. Be respectful of everyone here. Some tips on how to use the client. The Mead echo client has changed. I'm sure we've practiced, and we know exactly how it's gonna work. Yeah? We're we're on top of it. It does it does look pretty. But do make sure if you're in the room and you're logging to the full client, remember to mute your computer. I didn't do it in dispatch, and I had a lovely echo for a little while figured out what was going on. I just mentioned the same thing again. Yeah. That was me. Yeah. Sorry. And, Yeah. More resources. Obviously, the, the top one there is important."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "Go there, figure out the agenda, find yourself in this Warren of rooms, Alright. Let's get on to the business. So this is the agenda we have at the moment. About 40 minutes for Jmap. About 70 minutes for extra including a quick look at the new reach chartering. Process that we're hoping you kick off soon, and the charter text that's currently in draft. Do it hang on just before we head on. Do we have any agenda bashing? Does anyone have them? I guess it's too early for that, isn't it? But anything else we want to we'll get to that niche section. Cool. Alright. So Jaymap, we have a couple of documents and working group alerts call. We have for existing drafts, some of which probably should be in last call, and I just haven't done it yet. We have the portability work again. Does anyone have any other business for Jamapp? Before we get straight down into that. Yes. The tracker shows I'm waiting for a revised ID on jamap access. Sorry. That's an extra document. Right. Why is that doing the gate Yeah. I'll bring it up very Alright. Thank you, Ari. Alright. So, Jamapp Sieve. This was the Mark about that later. Yeah. That's that's the most important one. That was just in care. Let's let's finish the jam at first. So it should be separate slides for this play. There are no slides for James Sieve because it's in last call and it dot.dot believe there's been any comments. Alright. Then I guess will push the buttons and send it off Sounds good. Thank you. Cope. AC."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Alright. Next after 6. Do I need to get the agenda up here so I can check what's going on. Yeah. Maybe That's been all in. I that's always Soup sharing. Yep. Yeah. Can I do sharing contacts and calendars altogether? I think I might might make sense. So sharing you put, on there as in, working group last call, which it should be. I don't know that as actually officially happened. With Mentu. But Yeah. I was trying to see where they've dropped. I dropped a lot of balls back in July. Yeah. So I think that should it gone to last call yeah, at the last meeting, and I think just hasn't, but nothing's changed. So that will go to last call. Contacts and calendars. I was just having a look at both those. Now the JS contact spec is basically done. I think it's should be published very, very soon. It's cleared all the final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final final comments. Wow. That's a lot of finals on I don't know if they had that many times. And this is where the computer comes to get us. Yeah. Jesus. Okay. Anyway, sorry. Yeah. So, slightly distracted by that. Yes. So, I've just published an updated J map contacts and J map calendar spec, but there's no, It's just editorial fixes. I just went through it one more time to see if there was any little nets that needed fixing to clarify a few things and might put, pick some type signatures, but no actual semantic changes. So, I actually think both of those are ready. Once JS contact is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "finished, I think we've and more published, I think I can update the RFC references in the GMAP contacts, spec to reference it, and then that's probably ready for last call. So hopefully even before the next, meeting, unless anyone has any other comments on it. And similarly for calendars, we were just waiting for Jess calendar this, which was trying to try to, maybe, update a few things only discovered later, I need to talk to Robert more about whether that's actually needed. I unfortunately had to go, go back home, so he's not here. Oh, he's actually in the queue. So Robert could speak Go ahead, Robert. Yeah. Go ahead. Hello. Yes. So, I'm here, so we can talk about Cheerscat in the biz this meeting, Can you do Sure. Yeah. Please. Yeah. You you go, Preston. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So the, thing with JS calendar, this is that work on it, which is done in the Calix working group. Has basically dormant, since we've been focusing on Chase's contact most of this and last year. I've been looking at, where we are with GS, calendar based, and, I will go into more detail in the Calex meeting later this day. But I would say I came to realize that none of what we have in Chase can in the biz really should be blocking point for for chain for calendars and chame up for address books, and chain up for for tasks. I have one more remark. To that spec though. So we might just want to go ahead and figure out in Calix if g is gonna be actually is needed. We might even co another direction with that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I think, the one thing I saw when I looked in looks at it fee this morning that we might need is the schedule ID that we added to participants. Because we reference that in JM Out calendars, but we don't need a whole biz document to at that, we can just, even document it in the JAMA calendar's spec and then, just add it to the registry directly from there. That would work fine. So should talk about that. Maybe online. Hopefully, we can find a quicker solution so that we can get all of these documents done and out. Any other comments on any of those? Documents people want to Are spinning? Cool. Alright. Thanks. Alright. Thank you. That's well ahead of schedule less than 10 minutes in and we have already knocked over 5 agenda items. Yeah. Go for it. Next up is s MIME sender, which we do, I believe, have slides for. So with this document, I was pretty much done. I don't remember whether did we have our last call? We did have last call. Let me question. Let me check. I think so. Yeah. So, anyway, Philip Tao from Apple suggested, why don't we make it more generic? Because next slide. So, yeah, the current version is very simple is it has a bunch of Boolean attributes for signing encryption. Or back signing and controlling other things. And he said, why don't we have an, an array of objects to control It's an encryption. Well as I spoke to it. Next slide. Oh, yeah. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "One thing that changed in 04 version is I added searches for is messaging encrypted, non encrypted, And next slide, So in response to Phillips, request. I posted The Working Group version is on the left. Example for the working group version is on the left, and I posted a personal draft with a alternative more genetic syntax. Hopefully, you get an idea of the flavor of this. With his syntax, the reason array of objects, and you can actually if you want to implement something like triple wrap is sign encrypt sign. You can do that with his proposal. You cannot currently do it with my proposal. And he also requested a bit more control but, you know, which if head of protection is done like in Lam's working group document, then bit more control which headers are being protected. The booking group needs to pick, basically. Between these two. It's Well, I I'm trying to to your recommendation. stay neutral, Oh, okay. Next slide. I mean, the the pros and cons are very fairly obvious, but I'm just the current version, which was my regionally simpler but not extensible. So if we need to do more things, we need to add more attributes. Well, Inspired by Philip is flexible and extensible. So you, just a thought on if you go back a slide, I'm sorry."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Fee. Because this is kind of properties of the message object. Mhmm. It'll be nice if it Like, was more this is what it is rather than this is what you should do. Which it could be. I feel Is it like when you operate kind of thing. It's kinda like saying this is this message is SMIME signed and encrypted and then signed again or something. And then maybe if you were getting 1, you'd get the same thing back to say I verified that this is signed cripple and sunny. I don't know who's that? Wow. Otherwise, I wonder whether it should be arguments an extra argument to email set rather than part of the object because you're you're saying, okay. So, I I mean, obviously, I've done the best type yeah, I can think of. So Let's not concentrate on them on there. Yeah. Whether you have the yeah. That's right. I assume I always lean towards keep it as simple as possible but, obviously, has to do what people need to do. So if if that's Yeah. Yeah. That's partially why I'm I'm kind of undecided because Well, one as simple as easy to do, but if you were to add more things to it, which I suspect we might then more genetic syntax would be But doesn't So we have a bunch of people in the then. How about something in the middle between of those? Just SMIME and then one object with just properties. The right side looks a little bit very chatty. And the left side looks redundant. So I should just make a guess moment. And objects is that the you have more flexibility to add something. But it's less chatty."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "K. Let me think about this. The reason why it's array because you can specify. In theory, you can add more transformations there. You can say, compress, like, in CMS and all various other things. Hi, Ken Richardson. I'm not all that concerned with what the syntax looks like, but if there's used cases for chaining these together as you've shown with the array, I'm I'm all for going with the extensibility side of things. K. Hi. It's York from Rodrigo. I've taken what Neil said. So I think, you know, if it's not a property of Sissing, rather meant to be an operational thing, it should probably be a parameter. With my migration capability hat on, I would also say there would be some glory in having that also as a property, in addition, in addition just because sometimes you have the case when you're scanning an account or like that, and you want to know for a customer if there are encrypted message that need to be handled especially in the portability scenarios, things like I'm not sure if it's a scope for you, but just a second. So this is s one sender. There's already a draft to our a published document for Epsilon reception and and be able to tell it. A reception for sign messages. Yeah. Because this also deal with decryption. That I mean, just a side note. Okay. So, I think what I might be hearing is Let's try the approach on the right, but move this to parameters of their email set as opposed to properties. And also, well, I can I can produce an example, then we can have a look Yeah? And then I think the other thing which people might or might not have said this,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "there might be now a symmetry between how you generate this where if you find one you can get any information whether it's signed or not in the second proposal. I can have a look at that as well. Yeah. Yes. Well, what I'm trying to figure out is if we do the flexible approach on the right, On the receiving side, can you actually figure out well, you kind of can do a few unpack all the transformations that were done. But Again, how do you express this? And how And then summoned it well. With things like triple wrap, if you cannot decrypt message, You don't actually know that it's a triple wrap. You can only see the signature on the outside and and and encrypted blob, you cannot decrypt. So again, you know, which is legally you can still construct on the sending side. Okay. So I I think let's, let's experiment a little bit more. With, approaching the right and So I know this was, I mean, Santo SG in November, but because of this, needed a bit more work. We I don't think it was. I couldn't find a label and It did. Was it? Well, I've I saw it somewhere. If it wasn't for this proposal, I think I was done, but, you know, now, I think. You know, SMM's center extensions is in and group document. Hasn't been sent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "No. No. Milestone. Oh, yeah. Milestone was. Yes. He will update the Milestone. Yeah. Master and, k. So I'll, and try to produce a new version. As app so that, you know, while it's still in people's mind, so hopefully, like, mid November. Early December, and we can have a look. So just before we move on, I've got an action for you to do a new document. I should go back and look at So for Sieve, the next act is for me to submit to ISJ. ISJ. Out to to to because it's already been in working group last call. ASG, so I'll just do that. Sharing is Frontier working group last call. With calendars and contacts, Neil You're gonna do another document for those? I will need to. I'm talking just with the RFC references in once and just contact You can you can re you can reference the draft even if it goes to work with last call and it'll resolved by the editor. So working group last call on on both. Just need to check them, schedule IDs, something they've got. That gas coming up and stuff. Yes, I think they are Yeah. We can do work in group last call. Felly straight away on them and Yep. Awesome."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "Alright. Jam up tasks and portability is what we've got left in the jam up Yeah. So, I'm Juris Bohn. From. Oh, no. Yep. So maybe you can, yeah, So basically not a lot has changed since the last IETF. I just still need to have. I still have all the to dos from last time. The draft is now expired, and I need to sync with Jamapp calendars. Continue with the survey. And finalize the folder objects. Yeah. And I so I will publish a new draft soon. And, yeah, I think as Jay's calendar biz, is no longer a requirement, I would also agree on that point. I don't see big roadblocks in the way of finalizing this. So, yeah, If there are any questions, feel free, but If not, I would just continue with the next slidetech. So action for you is to publish a new version And then Yes. Yeah. Maybe put my my Nils heads together and sync how, like, what what else needs to be done? Yep. So I can finish this. While we're here, what kind of timeline do you expect? To to be done. I hope it would be the same as as for Jmap calendars. So what what was it? What was that now? Can't count us hopefully before next day is here for 1, 1, 1, 1, publishness, So did you still have to survey anything or are you happy that we've done enough survey."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "I mean, I would I would broaden that a bit, but I I don't expect it to take a long time. So I think next IETF is what would be Michael. Cool. Yeah. Has been there for a long time, so it's about time to finish it. Yeah. Pace. So gym and portability. So, in Yokohama, basically, was the first time I presented this. So this is a well, at Yokohama, I presented 1 draft, Gemma for migration data portability, which included a bunch of other things in the appendix. That have that I moved out of that document into separate other small documents now, yeah. So the first the big main draft for migration data portability. Should be has undergone some revisions since Yokohama that I did until I TF117, maybe Yeah. Maybe let's let's continue on on the next slide. Yeah. So yeah, first presented itf116. It has undergone some changes since until ITF117. Since then, nothing has changed. I didn't receive any feedback, so far. So I think this is, should be ready for adoption. Yeah. So that I just as a recap, the idea here is to provide clear guidance on implementing essential parts of jamap. To reduce the the entry barrier you wanna implement JMP as a new protocol. And, yeah, to have a more efficient way of implementing that if you don't wanna if the full jamab's back. It's just too overwhelming for you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "Take a look at that document. Alright. Next slide, please. Yeah. So There are 3 separate other specs that are split out. So, basically, I would summarize them as maybe cool things you can do with jamap because it's a very generic protocol, So all of them also have been presented. Here's general debug logging. Extends the jammer response with locked messages, that can be particularly helpful for debugging. Here's an example. So, basically, you just have a lock attached to the message response it's a very small spec. Feel free to read it. Leave some feedback. Next slide, please. Here's Jayme a backend info. Defines the ability to provide details about the product, that kind of environment for for gym app servers. Which is basically, as it is right now, an extension to the capabilities, object and the session object Well, we prob where you can see, oh, which is which API back end am I talking to which product, which environment is this As you can see in the example, Also here, feel free to leave some feedback. Next slide, please. And, yeah, the the last one is chamber breast mapping, which basically specifies, rest mapping for JEMF endpoints. So there are fewer requirements for certain use cases. Compared to the conventional gym of endpoint. I didn't put an example here. So but the basic idea is you don't need to Center Jason. Any longer. You can just use normal rest call for your GEMF calls, which is useful in some scenarios. So, What? Example."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "Okay. Sorry. Hey. Yeah. Well, I okay. Didn't put an example here because I already presented that the last ATF. Sorry about that. So, well, Okay. I I cannot draw something now on the on the slide, but basically, typically, you you have a Jim McCall, that you send to a server that has a Jason, in the request, And this is basically a way to to re to remove that dependency. So you don't need to send a JSON any longer. You can just call a certain URL, which is basically mapped which maps to the JSON. So that's the idea here. So In some scenarios, the requirement of sending a JSON with each call or most calls. Is not very is is is a bit too much maybe. Certainly make a a cleaner curl command to fetch a particular item by ID. Rather than wrapping it in a whole using and get and all those things. Yeah. Would be that would be the the kind of case that I would see that's being handy for. Yeah. Sorry. I I didn't put an example here because Yeah. It's basically all the drafts, have been like they are since actually Yokohama ITF114. And I just wanna Can you go to the next slide? Please. Sure. I'm trying to pull up the slides from the last meeting if want that example. Oh, yeah. Also good idea. So I'm just now trying to ask for adoption here. Since I didn't receive much feedback since last ITF's, So please read the documents if you can and Yeah. I would hope that we can start an adoption call on the list. This is a request for adoption call for all three. All four of them, actually. All four documents. Cool. Cool."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Why don't we use the tool just first? Just for fun since we haven't done it before. Polar room. But but Okay. May okay. If you wanna maybe I don't is does somebody need more examples before we can because I didn't give you much info now on on that those slides, get options in that. Let me just hit star That's still Yes. No. No. Yep. Invited for looking Maybe go to the second slide. There are the 4 documents. To to I'm sorry. The second slide of of this one? Today. Trying to do too much. Portability. Yes. No. No. Pen doesn't let us give options. Yes. Some or talk more Well, because your question is ambiguous. So Yep. It was just Go on back one slide. I can also do Yes. So there are well. So the thing is they're they're right now as a task back as well. Nothing has changed since last IETF, so they're all expired. So you It's you don't easily find them, I guess. They're all Yeah. They're not, they're not they're all attached to my name. Right now. I think so. Yes. Well, we can refresh them this weekend. I can. I know. Obviously, I will refreshed them before."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Adoption. And do you like the rest mapping Yes. They're very, very small documents, so there will be definitely more Content, Maybe. Yeah. Makes sense. You specify more than one capability in a single document. can you can Yeah. That makes a lot of sense. Extension Yep. Very good point. Alright. That looks pretty clear to me. We'll do a call for adoption. That that that We'll do we'll do 4 calls for 3 calls for adoption. Yes. Thank you. Alright. We are at the section for any other business for jamap. Anyone have anything else? Maybe just microphone. Thank you. This is. Just a very short note because I think I presented that Last IETF was a jameth archive sync. So this is is something I didn't get It's a time to finally work on, but also, Alexei already volunteered to, help with that. And I heard also, in the meantime, for many people that would like to see that. So just an infosys is still on the roadmap and something I think we were sit together soon and, yeah, So so JEMF archives, you know, like how to have a file or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "PST file version of JMP in a way. So. So that that was a I will publish a draft though. We'll gonna do a call production for Awesome. Thank you. Alright. And now could you unshare that document, please? Okay. Now I just have to fight with this thing for a second. Masters. So here's what we currently have. Submit SIV document to ASG. And we're expecting we'll be doing this, Ken, when when would you say? Should be good to go Cool. So we're looking at December 2023. Smith Gemmup sharing document is likewise, Straight away. Doctor. Draft and migration was simplified endpoint. Now ish coordinate with extra working group and potentially adopt doctor documents for snooze, we've done that. But can Yeah. This this is kinda I think we're gonna pull that for now. At last week's meeting with some email providers. It looks like we can't come to a consensus on what actually snoo should do or how it should operate. So gonna put that in the back burner for a while. So regardless this was done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:04",
    "text": "Are you hoping to get any of these through this year? Hoping to submit this year, to, like, get them past the telechats. Only two left is all I'm thinking about. So not stressed if they Okay. Get past the tele chats, just get them of my responsibility, and that's your problem. And that is done even if we're not going to progress it. Smim sender's document, that's Alexie, what do you think next year sometime? Realistically, with the February. Sabrina. And I'm contacts is going to be submitted shortly, jam up calendars. We had that as March next year, but we're gonna pull that back a little bit. Yeah. We'll also submit that December, hopefully. And Jamup tasks still early next year? Alright. It's it's fine if I'm gonna Right? Yeah. Yes. Alright. So that's all the ones that we're currently there. And what else do we have on our list. Just go back through the minutes here safe. Sharing with dealt with contacts and calendars with dealt with in want to send a word dealt with. Tasks, So we've gotta add, portability, and so we don't put the bill. You've gotta add the other 2. A dot document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "came up archive format. Do you think you have it written by? January next year. Adapt, adapt, Yeah. Cool. And we had document. For server info and debug. Which is due next month. You know, debug you know, luckily, you can have another one Yes. You can. Vacant info. And we had document for Yeah. Yeah. Change it, adapt top. That was also gonna be Simba, Change change. Change. Contacts didn't change. And we have this one. That looks good. Alright. Fantastic. Well done, everybody. That is Jamec finished slightly earlier. Let's move on to the important business. We got the slats."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "Oops. You need to share. Oh, yes. Sorry. You could probably book me a bit. Whichever I'm not sure. Alright. Hang on. Think we bypassed an important slide. There we go. The important question show of hands. Who is coming to dinner? 555 I see 11, 12, 13, 14 hands in this room. Dietary requirements. Do we need to collect those at this point? 6 restaurants suggested that, they just prepared me started for us, And, that sort of decided to say yes, that's make sure that it's not all needs, but also Okay. Probably 16. Great. Fourteen in the room. Yes. Yes. Yep. Is Georgia. We might be 80. Alright. Yeah. Done. Fantastic. Those people who weren't here are not true friends of email, obviously. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "And those who couldn't make this meeting likewise are not not friends enough that didn't make the effort. Is that how it works? Pete Rohit. Resi's handwriting. From this your center Yep. Thanks, Pete. Where are you that's so much more important than us? Alright. Shall shall we move on to the extra? So the recharter, the next few slides here detail, the text, that's currently in the re charter, I think would probably should look at that. But, yeah, but let's before we do that, sorry. On this slide here. This is the agenda for extras. You can see it's very, very busy. There's tons of stuff in here. We have any agenda bashing anyone who wants to add or remove anything from this Yeah. So, yes, Murray, you had a thing Alright. The extra draft extra draft IETF extra jamab access is back and revise that you needed before I can send it on because the security consideration section vanished. Okay. So, like, if that's not the same as the last call graph, do you have those 2 different documents? Not the same one. Okay. Cool. So the re chartering, let's have a look at what we've got that at the moment. So this is kind of the description of why We have a bunch of protocols we maintain. And we need we need somewhere that they are maintained ongoing. Is the text I put together. Hop I'm at for lm2bcivjamap. Is there anything we shouldn't be maintaining here or that we should add to that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Yes. Your votes. You can you can cute tool as well, but So the auto config wouldn't fit be covered by that yet. It'd be nice to understand. I think actually if you go back to the previous slide, I may have mentioned No. I didn't. No. It's maybe later than that. Yep. Yep. Cool. So the the text. Now if we go back to that previous slide just to because that is this is this these three slides are the complete text of the Chotta. Suggestion, saying, yes, from time to time is best of work. Important to have a home. Ken. This is Ken. I noticed that Jamup for SIV is not on there. Just for for completeness. We are doing Sid. We're we're doing jamap. So We've got the cross section there. The email message format isn't there. I'm speaking without a name because this is so embarrassing to say. Have you considered merging extra in Jaymap? Potentially, Jamup's still doing a favorative other work at the moment, but it won't be that long before it's done. That 5th bullet sure makes me and the way this usually gets scheduled over the last several years makes me think maybe we should them together. Yep. Yep. Yep. Alright. Well, let's yes. Sorry. Just comment on that. I guess the question then is, do you merge in as well. Is it because Is it all I know. Well, I know. I'm just saying it's just like, because there's as much overlap kind of with that in the moment with Jamie 2. Where where Not on there, the gamer. I'll say. It was like, Jay Matt, contact, Jay Matt Callender's you know, do everything. Well, or or perhaps split those things off of Jmap into Calaxed and and moved the other parts of JMP and the extra. Dot mind picking up DKM too?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:08",
    "text": "I have a large list. Alright. Let's have a look at the other two slides just to see what's on there. So this one's saying we'll do extensions and we will try and make them compatible because these are widely distributed things that have lot lots of implementations out there so we need to be backwards and forwards compatible. And then the final slide says what we won't work on, which includes the d q and d mark, email core, Uuta explicitly what make changes to SNCP other than Message submission and what make changes to the mind format. This is mostly copied from our original charter. With a couple of changes to remove Jam app from that list of things we won't do anything with. But the word make changes to the mine format was part of the original extra charter. If we wanted to take those on, that would be a more significant change. I don't know what area do I about that. Head is shaking. We let's talk about it, but but but Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't stand too much on queuing. Unless it becomes a problem. I'm just flagging that as MTP submission might be an issue. And some people who is not currently here will object to that. But I suppose that's part of the chartering. Yeah. They we JMapp has a submission process in it. So the question is whether we So where where does SMTP submission live then? If not, it it and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "if if if SMTP submission is excluded, where does it belong? If email core makes enough progress, it might be there if we get around to it. I'm not saying we will or will not because I cannot actually say going to happen in AML Core, but I'm just I'm just flagging this as an issue. So yeah, they the intention here is that it only covers the parts of email of email submission that are specific to submission. So if there's something that's specific to submission that is not used by SMTP between servers then that would be in scope for this work and group to address. 8. Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm just across the street because I had stuff to do this So there was some talk and dispatch about the perennial Oh, I've got email stuff to do a particular email change Perhaps we need a more general email dumping ground working group, and I'm getting more and more on board with the idea in my head that maybe we unlimit extra a bit. And say, you can bring such things here. I think we wanna make anything that's currently an email core UTA and Deacon and Demark out of scope. I think that's fine because we have standing working groups. For those things. But but but If someone comes up with a mind of extension, if someone comes up with an SMTP extension, and needs a place to vet it you know, we could have the working come up with a dispatching process where it doesn't get on a agenda till"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "you know, x number of hoops get jumped through, but I I'm starting to feel like why are we being so tight about this maybe Murray has an opinion. Where he was? Yeah. See, thank you. Okay. Yeah, man. You said You're not the only one to say that this week, Pete, after the dispatch meeting, I was approached by a few people who said, why haven't we done something like this? And the reasons were just that the ISG has talked about this before. And and It also came up that a lot of the work that couldn't find a working group was flooding toward the ISE and the ISE complained to us and said, Look, you're getting we're getting a lot of email. It feels like this is a just a large and run around and run around the process. Why don't we have a standing working group for this? And the counterargument is, well, it's hard to set up a standing working they can go off the rails very easily. So if we can come up with a charter that it doesn't become a dumping ground for a bunch of random things and, like, it seems like there's some structure or maybe a high bar to a document adoption or know, your idea here, then we could come up with something that might work for this. Yeah, that's I think that's think that's where we landed so far. So, like, let's have the conversation. Alright. How how and when and where will this conversation happen? What's the structure? Well, Now, that's a fine question. I mean, if I'm to initiate it, it would start with,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "something on the art list or maybe, I'm in my my my just say to the dkmdmarkeemailcore this working group, I'm gonna start this conversation over an art if you're interested, please come over there and let's talk about this and then it would come to the ISG. I was gonna I have a draft charter for something like this. Many, probably a year or more old, and it's ironically called Mailman, but it was the beginning of something like this. I can dust that off and see if we can turn it into something we can all stomach Do you have time in the next couple of days? I'd love to sit and work with you on One moment, please. And I will say, you know, when the the reason SIP occurred in the 1st place. I'm sorry. The reason the dispatch occurred in the first place was because SIP was overwhelmed with a bunch of extension requests and they came up with a dispatching mechanism. Right? And and their move was to create a separate working group to dispatch before it got into the SIP working group. But I don't see for this kind of stuff that we're gonna be overwhelmed with these things, we could come up with simply a dispatching step for everyone who wants to do some work in this Catrol Working Group and I wouldn't mind extra being recharter to do that. How are you on agenda time? Can we talk about this for a few minutes now? Yes. I'm a little worried about creating something called dispatch or something dispatch like for mail just because we're already talking about merging dispatch and sec dispatch, like, that can be this that this could get messy. But I kinda like the idea of, well, if it can't go to one of pre existing mail working groups that can come to this And then if this group thinks this is much too big, it should have its own working group, then it can just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "client with that being the implied meaning go talk to the ADs about, you know, finding a bigger home for this. So, like, not a, not an actual dispatch thing, but something like it. I I think that that's I think that's sellable. Alexis is behind me. Yeah. This is Kent. Maybe this is carte before the horse question, but SMTP, would that have to be moved into width? Did it stay out of art? No. Okay. Okay. So being devil's advocate here. If people start saying, you know, I want to register my fancy pencil had a field thing Do we really want to be dealing with this? In the rechartered extra or with or new working group. So I think, No. I think you there is permanent and provisional and provisional doesn't actually require an c, But would still not be nice to have some text saying Whether it is okay or not okay, or what Sabares just because, you know, Yeah. I think being very clear about that bar is exactly what's been missing in the past to get something like this through. So that's what we have to develop. Like, what's the line are we willing to tolerate? What are we what are the guidelines for kicking something out That's what we need to talk about. You don't have It just dies. It sounded awful. Okay. Ben is in the queue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "Just maybe a concrete, thing to Where would it go if I wanted to add a feature to edit an email after I send it or delete it after I send it, where would I go over this? It's maybe which version group would I be able use of expires and supersedes it's probably my end up here. I'd that's the kind of thing where I would say Do you have do you have a draft we can look at and we can figure out how how baked is the idea, or are we tackling something as a research project or how how far into this are we are. Answer your earlier question about when could we chat about this? O'clock tomorrow, Start after the work group chat. Yeah. I can get the ISG office if we want it. Sounds good. Sounds good. Yeah. I have a great concrete question, which is I have sort of things in the hopper. 1 is the stalled resuscitated, expires header. And the other thing is the the, complaint report or anything. I I picked the dispatch yesterday, you know, and I would really be nice if both of them could end up here, so I had some chance of advancing them, but it would be, but again, yes, concretely knowing one way or the other would be important And, and more other than I mentioned in the chat that in in case you're not reading it, is a DKG insect dispatch proposed a, an STS ish like thing for Message signing. So that's probably gonna come our direction. I think the sick dispatch action on that was referred to our all lamps. So it's kind of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "Alright. Anything else on this, other than the action which I have, which is is is is Ron and Marie to work on proposed charter. I assume that's the what you've already said John was in the queue there. Next document we have is the I'm at gem of access. I think there are slots for this coming up. I can do jamap access. This is not yet, without the slides, I've been waiting for comments from somebody not forthcoming, Let's just move it. The reason that there is no security considerations now is that I'm could you move pretty much all of it, but, but, accidentally, I removed the remaining sentence as well. Sorry about that. Debugging. I liked but it was a magnet for misunderstandings and we shouldn't have such a thing in an RFC. If people misunderstand it, it's bad even if I like it. In one of the rare cases where my arrogance uses I believe there is a review somewhere in the IITF apparatus that is required. Not my problem. I would just publish it, well, I see Marie Smiley. The review might be your problem, the security considerations being absent is not allowed. I can't let I can't advance it with a pricing. The if you're gonna say there are no security considerations that will usually get secAD is going, hi, but I can find something. So just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "Like, maybe. No, there there should be a sentence. There should be a sentence. Okay. The one that was there in the 1st division. Okay. Okay. Okay. So I take it. The action then is that you published a new draft with, security considerations re added. Yep. This is kind of I've I've read I read this last week and considered implementing it. So I will, make a promise to do actually do a review on the on the list. You reviewed 6 months ago as well. Quite usefully as a record. Thank you. Yeah. Or read it again last week. So let's go over here. Right? That was a simple one. Yeah. Cup, cup, Right. So we get to, Fun stuff. RFC 6855 contains something that no one None of the clients that I've looked at used correctly the clients use it incorrectly. Fixing 1 of the related bugs would be my job, and it a really difficult bug to fix. I would prefer to fix the documents. If if, terrain won't match the map, why don't we change the MAC. Is my opinion. The problem is that, 6855 says that clients should tell the server that this message that I'm appending uses UDF 8 addresses. Most"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "clients don't want us incorrectly. Again, I would say, if it's a magnet for misunderstanding, kill in this case, particularly so because most messages in the mail store will have arrived by other parts that do not have this bit So In a sense, it's a right only bit that is used incorrectly. Is a clear candidate for killing, I can't imagine. However, to kill it, I do need a little bit more I want to I can do an individual draft. No. I have done an draft that we can adopt. I could ask for last call and full standard for that. Whichever but I'm not quite arrogant enough to to do that without hearing agreement from someone. Alexine. I I think Pete was first I I'm trying to get my head around what what did the servers do in the case of I mean, I I what you're saying is clients aren't actually saying I'm appending UTF 8. They're just appending and it's got YouTube 8 headers UTA a met UTF8 addresses in the headers. Right? Well, clients, And, You're saying clients are doing it wrong. What are they doing? Right. Okay. There are 2 varieties. They're Most clients that can append this. Just don't set this flag. And it works. Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "Clients written in Python that used Python. I'm at LEB. Set the flag if the armor clip has seen this the survey supports that. Independent of what's in the message. So right. So so you're getting things marked as I have UTF 8 headers and they don't. And you're getting things with UT F Eight headers that aren't so smart. Yeah. So errors in both directions. The servers and the servers are doing their best to figure out what is appropriate. Well, as far as So far, I haven't seen any server that does anything at all with the flag? They just well, it do the servers support UTS 8 8 Addresses. A couple do. But, Don't use this particular flag. Because Go ahead, Alexis. Yeah. It okay. So this is all big mess, isn't it? The advantage of having flag is the server can invoke different parts and say, if this if the client says this UTF Eight, I will use the UTFA parser. If the client doesn't, I can reject UTFA. Use the old person. So, obviously, if there is flag, then the server will have to figure out and on my memory, a lot of spam use UTFA. So that will be an interesting case when the server tries to us, And then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Well, if it gets home. This is I don't know. I don't know what downside is, basically. And not relevant. Spam arrives via LMTP. Not where I am at. People don't I'm sure spammers would love to just use I'm a pretend to upload and into people's inboxes. That arise Yeah. Outgoing. And the administration Could could you do the side conversation that the mic so I can hear you. So, Hans Jorg was saying that, some I'm app service do unspeakable blue things, which we all want to pretend not having heard about. That's a good summary. Daniel Hi. This is Daniel. I think all of the IMAP UTF 8 is a big mess because I, email address was supposed to be 7 bit clean. This is already a mess having non 7 bit clean stuff in headers and a pen doesn't really Like, if you're a client, you just have a message. You don't you just append it compens, it usually doesn't it's just a blob and you upload it, you don't really know if there are UTF 8 messages in the header or not like, the code uploading it is just uploading it. So I don't think this makes any sense. Even less so because all of the YouTube aids stuff is weird already. So this just adds more confusing confusion to something that's already super confusing. So that'd be all for killing it. Don't think we would ever to put this flag or set it to the correct volume. You have identified"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "very precisely why it was difficult to fix these bugs. Layer problems, the people, the code that uploads is not that knows what's in the message. Yeah. It's John. I mean, it seems to me, that when you upload the message, the server looks at the header and it's there are high bits set and and and it any bite in the header that it's an AI message. And if they're on it, then it is No. This flag concerns only 8 bits or UTF8 in addresses Well, in local parts or domains in address fields in the heading. Has nothing to do with you deviate elsewhere in the heading. Really? I mean, because, like, we we packaged it all together. I mean, you can have, you know, you can have uncoated UTFA all of the headers in any, message. Yeah. Yeah. But not putting Yeah. That's that's that's the other thing we yeah. I mean, when I when I hack this to q mail. That's that's that's basically what I did. And so far, it seems to yeah, I mean, it's really simple task. Like, if there's a higher or a bit set, then it's that it's an EAI message. You know, and and so this is sort of a kick me thing. Like, well, then I guess where I well, okay. Or what did I get? Right? Difference. Yeah. I know. But I I I completely this this this flag this flag is useless. Because the the server needs to look at the message to see whether the flag is right. And by the time it does that, it doesn't black, black, black, black, black, Mhmm. Yeah. This is kind of to John's point. So the clients you've seen not use this flag, are they appending with the literal late, syntax or just using a planoate literal. Oh, difficult question. The clients have seen, will can will construct the I'm up command without the flag."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "And then go and, look at the blob that is to be uploaded. And either use literal eights or not depending on what that is. Okay. So if if there is a no. They are using little, little, 8, little, 8, literal, 8, Is that Yeah. They have to. Okay. The problem is not the null. The problem is No, wait. Not it's literally. If if memory serves, Leroy starts with a tilde, Right. Right. Before price. Something like that. It was mostly the curious because if if they are always using that, then the flag is kinda redone begin with. It it it is redundant. That's my agreement. That's my opinion as well. Now the the clients that have seen the construct this constructive command on this line of code and slightly further down the append an argument in the usual managed using code in another function. So my understanding was the reason this and was And in the first place, was because if you got something that was UTF Eight. And then you were dealing with a client that did not understand EAI. That you would then have to hand the client something where you got rid of this crap in the address headers. Now if servers don't do that, if servers are just passing these things blindly, and then you're gonna end up with undeliverable addresses Well, we are where we are. I I mean, the the issue I have with Daniel's comment is it sounds like what Daniel's saying is I don't wanna implement EAI. Because EAI has some work to do once you deal with these things"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "for deliverability purposes. Once this message goes, to something to reply Once it ends up in SNTP, it's gonna be a mess. So the reason you were marking these was because the server was gonna to deal with communicating with a client, you're gonna do a reply if you're gonna, you know, do something with that address, add it to address book. You have to know that this is in the AI address. So are if you're Implementing EAI avoid using this flag. If you're saying I'm ignoring EAI and making believe it's not there. As an imap server, well, you can do whatever the heck you want. But then you're not supporting e e ai. So I don't understand the problem. I don't really understand the bug. That you were trying to fix. Let's stay in there. Dan, it's, Daniel, 1st. Yeah. Daniel again. So the if you support or this doesn't really matter if you support EAI. The e most of the emails, as was noted earlier, arrived through SMTP, And if there are emails with utf8, addresses in the headers, they will have arrived by SMTP. So as a client, you sort of have to support it anyway. I mean, if you don't support it, you it's gonna break anyway. So the append duty phase doesn't really help. That's sort of, either the client or another client for the same account also uploading something with your going to see these emails come in through SMTP So the client then telling the server Hey. I'm uploading this thing, and I know EAI is, and this email has an EII address. This doesn't really help anything. You you'll have to solve that problem anyway, and hopefully most clients do But a pen, u t f a, it is just weird. Like, if you have an email that not 7 bit clean. You're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "going to have to do the pen There's a roll. 8 thing or whatever it was called. Anyway, so the fact that you then saying, oh, by the way, this email, that's not 7 bit seen seen seen seen also has some email addresses that are not 7 bit clean. Doesn't really matter. You're gonna receive those anyway, and that's the you'll have to dealing with them. And if they arrive through a pen or SMTP or whatever, that that that just The main thing here is it's it's another bit yet you can set or not set, and you're most likely gonna set the wrong value So that if you set this bit, the server can use that bit when it checks that email, but once it's on the email server, other clients are not gonna see that bit when they, Pull down that message. So it it's I don't see any point in this. We're we're gonna need to close the q on this topic pretty So if you have other things you wanna Say about it, please join now. And books, everything that Daniel said. Alexi, can I maybe say something, which I might or might not have heard, but might help? I think Was Daniel was saying probably is that if you get a message, which is AI message, It's either arrive through SMTP with the AI extension. But it might, the client might not be the one that actually handled it in the first place. So if it's is forced to convert it to ask 7 bit ASCII, It doesn't actually know how to convert it anyway. It might not be the one who got the message in the first place."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "And it's unlike, well, unless you can generate a draft message, but that's probably less likely case. So at this point, Yeah. We're getting in a little bit into garbage in garbage health kind of territory as well. Can I suggest maybe having a lunch discussion about this? Perfect. Up today. Yes. Uh-uh. I'm I've got one thing right after this session and then, we can meet for lunch. Perfect. That Alright. So the the next steps here are lunch discussion and then potentially call for adoption. Next steps in's lunch discussion, then I'll send email to the extra list. Suggesting something. Cool. Potentially cool for that. I'm probably on the wrong slide here. Right? A couple more here. Yep. Ben likes Paskis. Show of hands. How many people here are happy with all to as used in Sasol and interoperability for that. See no hands. Don't raise my mileage. Yet. Right. So I like past keys, and I think more to the points. Apple and Google like post keys and are pushing it? Assuming that I'm app stays alive, which seems safe at this time, We"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "Should we should have, either post case support some sort of pesky bridge And that's squarely our That's this working group. Isn't it? Okay. If not, then I would like to discuss it. You're gonna hop up to I'll be able to queue, John. Yeah. Cool, Danielle. So that's what I had to say, really. Daniel again. Huskies are nice. 1 of the problems with this is that And this is a bit hand away. The but Generally speaking, past keys are tied to or often tied to biometric authentication and Usually, you want your I'm app thing to just kinda run-in the background, fetch things, even though the user isn't staring into their screen, And if I map users pass keys, then you can't do that because the user might not sort of actively be using this is one of the things to be aware of here. If if you want to open a connection, to the server, while the user isn't actively using that might not work. Like, maybe a bit outside off. I'm just saying that that is one thing. Well, you some implementation. So for example, you know, if you have a UV key, you might have sort of touch the UV key thing. And so the, I'm a reply might not be able to open a connection because the user would have to every time you open a connection might to touch the UV key Which user presence and user verve, occasion there. Yeah. So so that that's, like, is super interesting because a lot has its issues, but pass keys also have their issues I'm recommending this. If may"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:05",
    "text": "Poskies on the web are typically used to set a cookie with a short spires. So you have to re authenticate every 4 hours, something like that. I would want to do something like that for SAS as well. So you get her 4 hour token, 2 hour token, 1 day token, something like that. That solves the problem with wanting to check email in the background. It also solves the being the similar problem with user changing from, mobile data to wire to WLAN? Can't ask the user to touch the phone just because of that. For changing from the IITF Hotel network to IITF network. Some sort of token like that must be there. This is Neil. I mean, Parkskeys are great. I love Parskeys. The way to make this work is with with our, that's the way we're gonna get, like, wise about, adoption. I don't think putting this direct in time might make sense. They're tied to a domain. You'd have to exchange it for a token anyway and use the token, like, generally, you know, this is the kind of stuff that's already defined. You know, I don't love oath in like everyone else, but I think it is the right solution here. Been talking with a lot of other, email vendors about way of making this happen in a way that Everyone can use a word without having to pre register everyone between everyone and I think we can make that work. Because people want to use the, web login for like, for the actual logging process, which gets you pass keys also get to a lot of other things that can be nice in terms of the there's, you know, people have got a lot of analysis of, what's happening with logins to help them, track, popped accounts and and the rest of that. So I don't think putting this directly into IMac is the right solution. Well, obviously looked into Emma. Assessment document, this process would be. The show blinds."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:06",
    "text": "Incidentally, that's a topic we were talking about last week, which non interactive authentication. Yes. But there are ways to solve this. I think this is the wrong working group for this. I think this is very much in scope for the kitten working group. For kitten walking group. And there You're talking to a chair. I should know. There are some documents which are not adopted that was discussed in kitten, which is very much aligned with this. So I think would like to have this discussion and Sasol is also in scope for it. So it's fine, but I think, Once we have the discussion, I don't think it it belongs to this working group, basically. Hi, Jim. You know, Pascis have all are getting a lot of press right now. They're, they seem to be very very promising, especially for consumer facing applications. But they're just an example of one of many authentication techniques that I think we need to have better supported in email clients in general. You know, in in some enterprise use cases, you might wanna have better support for smart cards. And it's it's kind of the kinda the same, the same thing. So I think specifically calling out passkey's IMAP is is probably a little too specific. I think kind of better support, generalized support for multi factor authentication in email is really needed. Yeah. Agree. I'm aware of the time we are pretty tight. So we should keep moving."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "Suggestion then is move this to kitten. Yeah. And, look at, how to be a bit more general, in particular, support both parties and smart cards. Right? K. 5. Thank you. Was that the last of mine? Ben, did you have a one more? Consumers in the queue. I'll try to be brief because, oh, there's a whole talk on its own, oh, auth and mail. But just about the, expiration date. If I wanna check mail, want the expiration date to be about 12 months, not 4 hours. Because I want to keep my email keeping checking. So that's also what I would do. I would do pass keys and a token which lasts for 12 months And, that maybe only works for mail check. And then if I want to actually read the mail, I get another got some baby Your enterprise might disagree with the 12 months, but we'll see. Yeah. That. Yeah. Alright. What have we not addressed that we skipped over and all of this Do they? That last I mean, that's the last one. The bunch of your stuff. Here. I didn't know I didn't know when to change. We got I didn't I had to go this one. We have I'm at your ID only SIP process. I'm at I'm at list metadata. I'm at in progress, and I'm at message limits in the in draft section, so, Alexis. What would you like to do? So you are your ID only, There was one small update since last edging response code saying or you ship command, which didn't include UID know, your ID required or something like that. Just to help with Reporting."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "I don't have lights. I think it's, and the document are now experimental because we want to get more experience with with this other than that, the document is done. So I think working group plus call please if if we can This is kinda Lexi. Don't forget the issue that I brought up, at the reception about what happens if decline only asked for UID. It's it's kind of a silly it's a silly use case because it's It's pointless for the client. Well, what should the should the server reject it? Or just return nothing. Are you happy for this to be last call command? John. Track. Take those. It it's a small syntactic thing that I'm happy. Yeah. I agree. Sorry. I forgot, but I agree. This needs to be handles. Do you have, Alexi, do you have other drafts? Do you wanna staff and work through the rest. Okay. Should we do a message? Message limit. I assume, Sure. Alright. Next slide. Yeah. We can skip that next slide. So based off on various feedback There were a few things done. Most the clarifications There is a separate capability save limit if the server only enforces this on copy and a pen. As per Timothy Ryanan, edging a lower limit so that the server cannot say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:03",
    "text": "you're only allowed to ever, like, fetch or modify one single message. That would be a bit silly thing. And then, there was updates to clarify that certain commands are exempt from message limit. Otherwise, it makes it very difficult clients to actually do anything about So these commands are expunge, close, and status, in particular for close, if the client is trying to close my mailbox and then it If we were to enforce message limit, the server then says, oh, sorry. I cannot close the mailbox. You have you have call it multiple times. That's just kind of becomes very silly. So, that's why it's exempt And then there is a also a section describing the effect of this extension on clients that don't understand it. So kind of to spell it out what the satisfied some. And then the document was changed from proposed standard to experimental because think we need to play a bit woman more with it and just get experience about how how useful it is in the real world. But I think it's done. And I'm sorry. So I just covered yesterday that I forgot to clarify how that search wasn't behaving. One of the sections describe how search was behaving with my limit, and the other one didn't match it. So I fixed it, basically. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's done. I put myself in the Q And A. So I just want comment on the 1000 limit. When I was writing when I'm writing test case, so I'm certainly want to configure the server to have a message limit of about 10 so I don't need to shove a 1000 messages into my test just to test it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:03",
    "text": "I'm not sure why you need that there. You can certainly say service should public servers should have this limit, but I think having a must I think it's a shoot. I think it's a shoot actually. But I agree with you as far as testing, but I just worried about servicing. Well, I'm going to the limit of, like, 2 messages or one message, and that's not Yep. Yep. That's going to be super inefficient. For everybody. And No. Production server in the real world. It's gonna do that without a user's complaining. So I don't think it's a real risk, risk Well, most clients wouldn't support it, so users will complain Yeah. I don't know. So are you suggesting no limit, or are you okay with should? I'm okay with the should Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Alright, Barry. Where I was trying to signal to. Tested that, and then Yeah. I pointed to the slides and I This is Barry. I just wanted to say that I had some comments on this previously and these, particularly the last three bullets address my comments, so I'm good with where you are. Okay. Good. Okay. So what's next step here? I think Quicken Group Plus Call If we didn't have one, Cool. And you, Brian, as individual, can double check with the the tech around the limit is fine. And if not, we'll take it as a last call I see you, man. Yep. Yeah. Okay. Fine. Thank you. Cool. We have I'm at in progress as well. Is that we have Hello? Yep. Hello? The document No. There is no slide, to shop."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "The document, is it that changes since the last meetings since all the stuff that has been revised has been I hope, and the rest And if I understand the world run, we are in law school now. Airage for your shipment. Now. Yes. This is I'm at in progress. It's in working group last call from the start of last week. Working group last call ends on Friday of this week. So Yep. And The the only thing that I'd like to mention again is that The document as it is Mhmm. Give some model where you the goal is to say to the client, hey. I have this stuff to do, and this is the point where I am. So it gives goal and, progress. Which If you put them together, can be derived to be a percentage of whatever you want. And, there are provisions that if some piece of information is not available. We can give integrated information. So For example, if you don't know the the point we we need to reach because It's iterative. We kind of simply send saying, hey. I I've I've known this far, so I process it. And elements, but I don't know when when I would finish. Or it can, give degraded information, like, a percentage So I don't know exactly which is the goal and how many did, but maybe I am 30% of what I'm do I'm doing. The idea, with that was that if you have a non degraded information, you can use it better. For example, If you have multiple operation going on different connection so to different folders or whatever. You can put all the goals to other and all the progress together and give a consolidated percentage"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "which just some in percentages from different operation doesn't work. Internally in the company, there was a debate if to provide just the percentage and nothing else. That's only I I think trying to provide More quality information is better, but that was when they already asked couple of times in different meetings to for comments about that. So this is my last invite for opinions on that. Even then my position is I prefer to give more finer in the information, but I understand the other side too. Popping myself to Nickube because I commented on this one. I I think simplest is best. So just having a account and a total is enough. I think having this separate percentage symbol in the syntax complexifies things for clients and is unnecessary. That it should just be should just be two numbers one that has to be lower or the same well, basically lower than the other because once it's the same, you're done. And that's it. So you are against the percent symbol in the syntax in this regard. A percent symbol. I think it's an additional complexity that doesn't a client's not gonna display anything different. It'll just show up No. Well, the the reason for that, I know it's application, but it is because without that, you don't know we go hand one under these actual items or a degraded percentage it was a a way to convey the information that the information is not in the in instant time form, but it's already integrated. So was the idea, but I understand your points. Yeah. I don't I don't think a client it's a a client will display it'll display, display progress, Bari, the way. Whether it's a percentage or there's exactly a 100 items."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:09",
    "text": "Anyone else have last call comments here. I mean, you can comment in the mailing list too, but I guess not I'll Push the buttons on Friday then. For I know you'll need to do, an updated draft based on whatever last call comments and then then submit to ISJ. Unless anyone objects Cool. Alexis? So next session for me to drop the percentage sign. I will and potentially whatever comes later. Oh, sorry. Yeah. That's not the objection. I I read the draft, and I was even happy with percent, but, you know, like, if it's, yeah, I'm I'm not That's fine. I don't mind. Block her on it. But I think it's just excessive complexity. I can Okay. Okay. I think Ken, we have Sieve process. I'm it. Unless not a data. How we had time. We've got 25 minutes and a only thing after that is, What are config and big files? Okay. Cool. Those are important to know I'll try to move some some quickly here. City of Science. Yes. So message no."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "I'm gonna trust That's called civic calendar. Yep. Okay. Next slide, please. as you recall before last IETF, The name of this was changed from processignment, the process calendar. So because it's a we can also now support, public messages. But, the review that came in Remind me that I'd forgot about the method published, which is also used for public messages. It just, because there's no attendee in in the calendar data. So renamed the non item argument to allow public is pretty straightforward. Also renamed delete cancels with one l to 2 l's, which now matches the language in 5545. And I added a new section that's talked talks about interaction with other actions. The draft already talked about, not canceling implicit key, but I also talked about reject and that this should only be executed once per per script. Next slide, please. We also at the security section, I referenced a calconnect specification that talks about calendar spam, but I also singled out these 3 particular issues. This Section definitely needs more reviews, so please read the draft. And let me know if there's anything missing or incorrect. Or needs to be flushed out more. Next slide, please. Other changes based on feedback, this should not touch the recipients' participants participation status at all some clarifications on the error string, added the this to the the action registry, which I've forgotten to do previously, even though, coauthor on that specification, and added some open issues which I will talk about shortly. Next slide, please. Here's the updated syntax."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:02",
    "text": "The stuff in green, is only used if the server also supports variables. But that's spelled out in the spec. Next slide, please. Okay. So open issues. Based on feedback, is should we talk at all about what the server should do or the citizen should do if there are multiple parts with calendar data. You know, Yes, Neil. I mean, we Yes. I would not say, based on what we've seen, you know, having done this, if there are multiple parts, but they're all actually representations of the same calendaration, check the ID and Suffolk. When normally they are all identical. Just pick 1. It's a no. Process it. You have more than 1 and they're different, you shouldn't process any of them. That's someone sending, like, their whole calendar they've exported from somewhere to file. Probably don't wanna automatically do that. That would be my suggestion. That as an error or just no action? Whatever. Yeah. I was just thinking about imagine multiple digest which is the archive of a mailing list or, you know, conversation. So like there is no point in processing them. Okay. So But absolutely spell it out in the document. Okay. Fair enough. Yeah. I mean, you could have multi parts or just a single eye calendar file with multiple events in it. Because that's allowed to Either way, I don't think you want to automatically process it. Basically, what we're saying is if 2 separate. 2 separate things. Wait. You might just have to do that. Yeah. So if they're if they're they differ, ignore them. If you've got raw eyecalendarandbase64encoded but it's the same proceed as an as usual. Yes. Obviously. Okay. Another question. Should we discuss inline attachments in relation to possibly having, you know, carrying viruses and all kinds of other stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "Do we Do you mean inline inside the calendar data? Inside the calendar data. And are they like bay 64, you mean by in line, or it's not not just like a URL somewhere? Bay 64 in line. You know, do we just give a long discussion about what to, you know, scan it all that other stuff or just mentioning securities. Yeah. Just put in securities. Okay. Fine. Last point, which came up, as I was as reimplementing some of this stuff Alexis has got the ex, external lists extension. And I was wondering if would it be useful to leverage that and specify a list of addresses that you will only accept invitations from if they are the organizer. Currently, there's no there's no way to to match or or tell this action. These are the organizers that really want to accept stuff from you can check the headers, but the headers don't have to match what's in the calendar don't, they normally do. Like, normally, the from address will be sufficient. Normally, but you don't you don't have So just just a question. I I'm not advocating strongly for this or pushing it just a question that people think it might be useful. Make it optional. Obviously, we'd have to be optional if if, extended list is already supported. Okay. I'll flesh out some text and see if, if it becomes useful. I don't What's the next slide, Jim? I'm not even sure Okay. Any other questions or comments on this But, again, please read the security sections. Let me know where it's lacking. I'm sure it is. Okay. On to list metadata. So I've got 2 actions for that. Can't revise it and everyone to review particular, the security considerations is everyone in the room. If you're a friend of Come to dinner. Review the document. Okay. List metadata. This is very, very short. Next slide, please. So, just a review of what this is, this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:03",
    "text": "basically mirrors what Alexi did with list status and what Ron and I did with list metadata or excuse me, with, list my rights It's just a way to re to fetch annotations on mailboxes as part of list. For instance, color or, you know, any other display, kind of keys. Life it's it's The spec or the draft itself was basically a a carbon copy of my rights just changing the appropriate language. So I I think it's, it's fairly well baked at this point. And I think the next slide just asks if you wanna move this to last call if there's no other issues or comments or questions? Assuming I didn't make an me, it didn't make any cut past errors and didn't change any required language, I think, can find those in the last call. Zequin. Okay. So we can take that to last call next week, possibly. Okay. Whatever. Alright. Thank you. Alright. Onto the new new stuff we have. Order config. Hi. I'm in Books, for the slides, West Did you Ron, did you get my email? Could you just share your screen? When was that? This morning. Just Okay. If it If you it's just a few URLs that you just need to human needs are open. There's no virus in the MP form. I am. Okay. Yeah. That was just just If if it's okay, then or or you can do that. Chess screen. It's easy. He's already connected. Thanks. Yeah, can you just open the first one?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "Open the first link there. So Boom. That's auto auto contact. What did you not see here? What did not happen? We did not select whether this is a Google account or a Yahoo account or a Microsoft account, there was no button to select the provider. He just entered his email address as name and his password. When this was first implemented 15 years ago, the state of the art was you would enter your Imap host name, your SMPP host name, your authentication method, and, your username you need to know whether it's adminoradmin@word.com, or is it at vent slash slash work dot or something like this. So this is all figured out automatically. Report numbers, obviously. Is it SSL? No. It's a startls or TLS or not or Yeah. You get the point. Good. So how does this work when you open second URL, please. So this This is the proposed format. If you say yikes to XML, there were reasons. But, what you see here, this is the configuration for 1 ISP. In this case, Yahoo, you there's a few of the domains listed. Those are not which are not listed here are covered in a different way way. I'll come to that. It should scroll down a little bit to the first incoming server. And here is the configuration being listed. There's multiple incoming service that you can list. They're listed in the order of priority. The first one is a preferred one. But the configuration file captures all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:05",
    "text": "working and sensible configurations. So, we try it very hard to get an configuration with STLS enabled. But if there's an ISP which absolutely doesn't support that anymore, we still listen plain, but Otherwise, we try really hard. Yahoo was a funny case because they said, No. We don't support SSL, but they actually did. So did we just put in the SSL country? And let's complain about it. We said, no, we don't hear. We do SSO. If there's multiple Imap ports, for example, IMF might be running on 140 143 with star TLS and 993 with TLS directly. We're listing both. In which, typically, preferring the direct SSL one, but we're listing all working sensible configurations. So if for some reason, the first one drops out. You cannot connect to it. You can still fall back to the other one. And the selection between I'm at and 3 is the selection that you can allow the user to make. In Thunderbird, you can actually choose whether you wanna do an Imapp or as or pop 3. So it does say SMTP. You can the user can choose between Imet and pop3, but that's a user and agent choice. Obviously, lists SMTP as well. And, you don't see that here, but we can all include calendar synchronization and context synchronization. We can include web dev for file sharing for big files. For example, So that, I just said I tend to have one configuration I'm set to go with email, contacts, calendar, a file synchronization, everything. We captured the, documentation where the auth authority of common documentation where we got this from, and, the OAuth configuration. So if you wanna do OAuth you can get the information right there, and you don't need your hard code the parameters how to do a a wall."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:03",
    "text": "That assumes that there's no going to be client registration things. So that's a discussion to be had later on. OAuth is simply does not work for email, because it's Rick OS spec requires client registration, which obviously doesn't scale. So that's a conversation that needs to happen before we can actually deploy this. But this is a too long discussion. It doesn't fit in 5 minutes. Yep. So, can you go to the, next one? Yeah. Yeah. So that's the craft. I will very quickly go over the methods that we use to get this confirmation because there's several income sources for that information. So the first by the way, yes, got a little bit lost. If you scroll down a little bit, So this is implemented by a number of clients already. And scroll down over this. This is just a XML file. You can scroll down just with comments with the different options. So stop here. Thank you. A little bit higher again. Yeah. Yeah. If you go to 4.1, Thank you. So, there's different sources for this information. Because email is a decentralized federal late federated medium, where we want to keep that Hi, dear. So the first attempt that we're making is to directly contact the ISP on a well known u URL. There's 2 one with a specific host name and that would be useful. The first one would be useful if you're an ISP and you want to this configuration secure on a separate server. Or if you're a small domain and you don't wanna bother setting up your own host for that. You could just dump a single XML file in a well known URL on your normal website and we can fetch that too. That's the 2 options there. The third one is there, because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "of hosters need to do a redirect. That's that's explanation for that doesn't fit in 5 minutes. So I'll skip over there. Can you go down to 4.2? Yeah. There there's certainly some stuff around the use of must language there that I'm sure is gonna discuss later, because when masks are about what the client does, not about, do you enforce that kind of must? It's not that that's not, but anyway, Gemps. Yes, about the schmuds and Schuts is but I want this must over there is there so that to avoid that the ISP says, no, want to support that, and you're just going to break your deliberately and stuff like that. So the Most ISPs don't have this configuration on the well known URLs. So I was thinking, how do we support Google, Microsoft, all those. The solution with the central database, the ISP database, which I maintain and it has a list of almost all ISPs in the world, with the market share more than 0.1 market share. So pretty much everything in there. And, this if the ISP itself doesn't have it, you can most and it's an ISBN, you most likely find a configuration in there. That feels a little bit yucky in a federated environment, but, it was a way to get over 50% of working configurations, right, off the bat. That it was crucial for making this work. Next point would be mxlookup that is helping hosters. For example, I have an exchange 350 3 56. No. Microsoft, whatever. They're I don't have the conservation for all of their customers. So making an mx mxlookup to find the mx server. From that, I find the hoster."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "And then I look up the holster with some of the other methods and find the configuration this way. That helps increasing the hits rate dramatically as well. That's mostly the methods. And then the line can do some other things as well. That's more or less the basic mechanism. This is already, implemented by many of the open source clients pretty much all of them that I know. A next cloud email, a contact, email, K9 males implementing it, fair mail is implementing it, pretty much all source clients that I was thinking of, implementing this already. To to more or less degree. And, We discussed that at Mark, and it was overwhelming, support for this. This peep most people that respond to Can you do that next week? And they wanted that right away. So there is a draft specification for that up. The the proposed the approach that I would propose and that we had discussed was that we standardized already what we have right now, what is deployed in the world, what clients are implementing right now to make it RC for the apps to document this. So it's been informational RFC. Sorry? This would be the informational RFC just describing what's there. And that would be for standards. Is that informational? Is information of number, but it isn't it's not a per standard. It is a informational document describing what's there. Proposed standard requires the work group to be allowed to make changes to it, which it doesn't make sense for it deployed. There's small changes possible, but, but, some some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "first document what we have, and the idea was to standardize that and then make a version 2 of the document and say, okay. Then we open it up, and we say, okay. We may do that and rename SSL to TLS and and whatever you have and wanna do there. That would be the proposed approach. We've got a queue of people. So let's let's The, Jim Fenton here, the XML that you showed, you mentioned it know, included configuration for calendars and things like that. Is there an option for a user to use only portions of that if I wanted to host my calendar, someplace else besides that my mail, provider? Yes. That's an user agent. Configuration options. So you go through the dialogue and by default, you get everything, but you can uncheck it. Great. Thank you. Okay. That's Neil. Firstly, we definitely need and auto config kind of document kind of like this, with meeting last week with a lot of email vendors, and we were looking at making the whole flow work really well, including getting a wall between any provider without having to pre register all that stuff And so the and the first thing you need is this. The actual in terms of what we should put into an IFC, I think there's quite a few changes to make like this. The all the different places you look for it, that's interesting that Thunderbird does that. I don't think that belongs in the IRC. I think, you know, we should say you do just 1 or 2 things. And certainly, like, any turn internal database and stuff is not relevant, for this. There's security considerations of guessing URLs is really critical to the security of all of this like, what things you discover because you're about to send the username and password. Potentially password if, you know, if you're using basic auth to this random address that you found So I would say I didn't follow with a guessing because my no guessing. And Yeah. Yeah. It was. He he had all sorts of templates and stuff, like, look at this sub domain of this. There's no guarantee the sub domain of that. Domain is controlled by the same entity as as the, you know, as the top level domain. Like, there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "you know, people host various delegations It's no. Maybe not. But if it's something we're going to kind of like, try and recommend people, we should say you just do it this way. Like, I would say that well known path at the same domain as the address is okay. And otherwise, a DNS server record that says, do that, but at this other domain instead, which makes it easy if you're hosting lots of domains for other people the two mechanisms that we really want and everything else should be scrapped. Like, you know, Thunderbird may still choose to do it if you want. That's obviously up to client, but it shouldn't belong in in, like, recommended document. The XML bit, I haven't looked at in detail, but if it can contain all the information Fine. There's certainly an advantage of having implemented you know, already rather than having to define something new. I'm not sure about this idea of we would do a version to the changes I have difficulty following him. Can you speak a little? Sorry. Yes. Not sure about this idea of doing a version 2. Later that's completely different because would people implement that? You know, the advantage I I kinda feel if we can do it once that's gonna be better. Otherwise, you end up immediately in a situation where there's 2 different competing things and does everyone implement both or or what? Like, I I'm just not sure about that approach. But, you know, if this is widely enough implemented and it does do what we need, then maybe we just stick with that format, but certainly the I think there needs to be quite a lot of changes about how you find it. And, yeah, we'll have to look at whether the format supports all the things that that that is needed So There was a lot in this. So let me spawns, particularly to the how to find it. And that's really core to the mechanism. So this this actually two parts of this. Is this the data format specification? Yep. And then how do I get that? Absolutely. And how do I get that? Is part of the protocol, right, that is how to get that is very important. What I'm saying is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "big long list of what's there, I don't think, is what we should be recommending. Like, that maybe what Thunderbird does now, boat boat boat. We can personally reduce it. So it's there's a very clear recommendation of this is how you host it. And secondly, be very careful in terms of the security implications of that. They're well, firstly, I don't think those are the right ones, and it's missing a DNS of version to get to it. The well known one was fine but then there was also actually a whole load of other sections about And then you could try this supplementing. We we need to we need to take this offline. We've got about 2 minutes left time. Neal, a do guess, it's the 1st and most common illness. Should we adopt it and then work on it? Yeah. Cool. Cool. So so, We don't need a dog, but, like, it's so fun. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I like to see your next Yeah. So I understood this. Oh, sorry. Kept kept kept Yeah. I think, well, that's an interesting. So, when we talk earlier about this. I was also, you know, document what Thunderbird and others are doing It's a good idea anyway. I don't know whether, you know, deciding to have informational. And then, standard track version of it, even if it's mostly the same format, but the, you know, slightly cleaner. An option, but I think it's something to keep in mind. Well, if it's on the side, If it's very if, like, if you change it, Jason, then it makes sense to make a different one. Right. But even if we decide that it's you know, it's still, like, somehow, and we just clarify that certain fields are extensible. And reduce the number of where it can be hosted. Don't know. That that would be fine. Yeah. Yeah. So I I think, Yeah. We need we need to have a think whether it's a one document going directly to propose standard, what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:02",
    "text": "many change, you know, what kind of changes we can do or whether it's going to be to stages as as discussed So I would say if it's compatible with the existing deployments, it would be fine to make changes Hans York auto discovery enthusiast. I've been digging into this a couple of years ago very deeply, not as yours, but also the Microsoft version that's on, we did some implementation, on that and on. There was also some activity within CACONEC. So there is a draft by Cyrus Deboo from 2013. In terms of auto discovery in a broader scope, and so it would be one of my first main points, I think this should So the goal of this should not be limited to email. We had the discussion before on the scope of extras, so I would probably even go as far as in doing online storage in this, like, Yep. And because what we see when, you know, people nowadays especially business do have calendar contacts, tasks, files, and so on. And they want all of this to work immediately and not don't wanna have a different process for all of these things and also client implement don't want to implement card of card of discovery. Thing in parallel and so on. I also like I just can I just completely agreed with this? It's already in the draft. Okay. Fine. All of it because it was quite short. No, buddy. I've very much liked Apple's configuration profiles. So the way of having sort of apples configuration profiles. So having a way of just of your this as a file for certain enterprise scripting context. Something could something like do that already. I think you can do all the config XML mini files, you know, locally, I think that's part also even in some client implementation, but that, I think, should be configured and maybe even a little bit extended. So all that would be required would be given MIME type. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:01",
    "text": "Maybe it's just mentioned. Okay. So we need to give Murray a chance to finhock. We actually have a time already. Yeah. I'd I'd be very quick. My knowledge of how auto configuration might be a little stale these days, but you might wanna consult HTTP BIS about how to go about doing that. They have some strong opinions about well known versus a reserve host name when you seem to be dabbling in that area. The other thing was the list of ISPs. How could you possibly keep current current that scares me a little bit. That depending on that, it's the same kind of thing as the PSL, which trying to deal with in D Mark, how could that possibly be kept reliably current? So It's yeah. Say it. Yeah. So Okay. The the last thing was the last thing was just, missed the bit how this fits in the charter here. So let's be just we can review it offline. Like, this seems a little far afield from what this working normally So maybe it is, and I'm, but I I just I'm having a double take here. June should respond to that or Yes. So So regarding the database, yes, I see, of course, your point, It was not that much work. Like, I did most of the work myself with some a lot of help from others, but bit. But, yeah, of course, it's some work that needs to be some kind of somebody maintaining it, but it's just a fallback. Like, you first asked the ASP. And if you don't find anything, then then you get it. And most people are using Gmail and icloud and Microsoft anyways. Yep. So what we have left here is any other business and milestone review. I don't know that we going here. I'm happy to do do those life. And the big files, which gonna skip he would have said anything about it. Very briefly. I think Braun presented big files problem is basically how to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:04:01",
    "text": "include references to external attachments without now put putting them in line. And, we just posted a draft yesterday. So there is, again, depending of, you know, whether male man is going to be chartered or this game going to get to chat we can see where it lands. Yeah. And I told, Pete, that I'd announce, the EAI discussion lunch meet Pete at the registration desk at 11:45. Alright. I'm gonna sit here and go through the milestones. You're welcome to lady. Pretty boring. Oh, we we ate up the time earlier. Oh, yeah. That's good. I don't think we can be in discussion the"
  }
]
