[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "[Laughter] [Laughter] folks I\u0027m Tim and this is Tina\u0027s operations so no mic so all the mic I\u0027ll give you more Mike you know who we are I\u0027m Tim that\u0027s Ben oh that\u0027s Suzanne there in front is our HT overlord one so Dan York\u0027s doin jabber scribe so who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "gets priority at the mic and Paul who I saw right there is taking minutes for us so thank you both you guys it\u0027s Tuesday so you should have seen you note well the big improvement as I fix the cover of the other links from ugly blue to gray so you know big advancements there there are blue sheets going around and so please fill them in it we\u0027ve got to get out here so I like to put his name on it sort of thing so we\u0027ve got a bunch of agenda items as you well know so we double dare you know most of you got some old some updates of current stuff Sarah is going to talk about the hackathon results which are some interesting stuff there I know some people least once maybe twice Britton you can always listen to Sara talk three times so it\u0027s always good and mostly today today\u0027s our current stuff so things that we\u0027ve actually talked about in the past Friday is gonna be you know essentially the new session stuff some updates there\u0027s this KSK futures path Thursday morning so of course we all know everything about the Cascade and there\u0027s no reason to sort of discuss about it but I know Paul\u0027s putting that together there\u0027s a list on it and all sorts of good stuff so just give me a heads up on that side meeting tomorrow oh yeah good times in the DOE context this is sort of the issues raised this is all about the what I would say about operators stuff and things like that and I dunno coming out of the DOE meeting that no all of that work about operations around dough is not coming here so no no I refuse it so no it\u0027s use it so and we actually a good president because we\u0027re doing some operations documents and deprive and they\u0027re basically staying and deprived because of the type of work at it so sorry sorry web people you have to sort of suck it up and deal with that so my tactful co-chairs I know we all love being a sec our employer started rolling out a bunch of DNS after customers and a lot of the stuff that we\u0027ve done is driving a lot of ideas discussions sumon and Pilate are going to discuss about them or to provide or do set draft in deprive we have a draft on how to do a safari ordinance over TLS which seems kind of interesting so but big props to Alison and her team Sarah Schumer and cloudy at heart so it\u0027s been a bunch of work yeah it\u0027s very great so so document updates bunch of stuff since the last meeting so yeah that\u0027s some serious business there and of course our Leafs already got an errata so Dave Crocker\u0027s can\u0027t you know pending yourself in the head on that so terminology yeah this is a big collection of stuff so big thanks to everybody the authors especially Warren for helping Shepherd those through that was a big pile of stuff we\u0027ve got one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "more in the editor queue that\u0027s been sitting there for a while but the Tina\u0027s capture format and it\u0027s basically waiting on this c4c do-si-do document I wouldn\u0027t looked at it and it was like okay that\u0027s in some ISEF land I don\u0027t understand the RFC editor technology though go ahead Paul CD DL just got moved to the RFC editor there you go so it\u0027ll be done soon so yeah an algorithm update I know there\u0027s a small fix that mr. Paul waters wants to put in there but it\u0027s on the telly chat and warned there\u0027s some little editing that just needs to be done and I think it can\u0027t be done during the telecheck discussion I will page you in on all that you see all the email so I\u0027ll make sure it\u0027s all put back in your brain okay so in current working group last call\u0027s extended error it\u0027s kind of been sitting there and it\u0027s been interesting because we\u0027ve got some good results out of the hackathon that sort of generates some comments on how to essentially describe things a bit better so I know Wes has promised me because we we talked at 6 a.m. every morning that he\u0027s going to spend a new version with some of that and he\u0027s going to address that yeah what\u0027s her Tucker I say yeah a new version will be coming soon the the comments are really well appreciated and I love the fact it was implemented at the hackathon that was thumbs up I totally loved it too so that\u0027s great so we just discussed that end we have this call for adoption active on Tina so and I just and the feedback we\u0027ve seen looks like we\u0027re gonna call it adopted um we\u0027re just waiting for you know probably just because we\u0027re busy doing other stuff but yes that looks like it\u0027s good so thanks all 7816 biz which is community minimization it\u0027s kind of stalled according to the authors but just mostly like eat sometime in some reviews and we\u0027re probably going to see that I\u0027m hoping for some updates by Montreal that\u0027s good you know it\u0027s the first time that I\u0027m actually poking at authors to tell him to get moving usually they\u0027re kind of kicking me serve stale interesting mailing this is Scott how\u0027s that how a way to say it it\u0027s a nice combination of technical and IPR issues and so I like how the authors are addressing it they\u0027re being very positive and very good about sort of trying to sort of find a good middle ground so I think you know I\u0027m hopeful how\u0027s that so but I\u0027m usually the optimist here so no response I\u0027m going to talk with the two authors and we spend a lot of time reading this the chairs have and we do feel it ready for working group last call so we\u0027re probably going to kick that off and do a forcing function to get people to read that a little bit better and of course a lot of that comes out of the genius Flag Day work that\u0027s what\u0027s going on - so 28:45 biz I kept thinking this was going to be done by now and it\u0027s but they\u0027re some of the comments around readability Bennett\u0027s been sort of chasing all this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "really good so there should be working group last call soon on that girl a name that\u0027s an interesting one I left off the agenda this time because I want to spare you but we will have something forward I want to do either an interim or something before Montreal because I have some way of sort of framing the issues and talking about you know there is an interesting draft of Mark Nottingham put out about the Internet\u0027s for the end-users and all that kind of stuff and in the world of DNS I don\u0027t see the end users as the operators of the zones or even the users with the internet I see it as the application developers that build stuff that use DNS as the indirection layer for what they do but that\u0027s kind of my weird view of the world and there\u0027s a big elephant in the room there with with Hamazon web services and so I want to do something but I want to figure be able to figure out if we can actually move the industry towards us as well as we group towards them so and the ties to tell me I\u0027m completely wrong this is great no not at all just my perception of a mother\u0027s making I see is that of tony finch they divide up and that was posted to the list and there were crickets and maybe because people are fed up with a name so inside meeting this meeting we plan to actually take aim and reduce the scope and only focus on the provisioning of site because the current current graph actually discusses a name operation inside surface I like resolver site and we if we reduce the scope we can actually get some traction again and make some cocoa that would be great and one thing I notice are we are the open syllabus sorry mention and that\u0027s one thing I\u0027ve noticed I remember in the I think it was the last meeting we talked about extended error and what came out of it where people were saying we like this but we like less of this and it was like simplifying sort of giving that sort of least common denominator that simple set and that we can always expand on later like once we get it to something working and we can move the two industries together then we can sort of say okay that\u0027s great sort of thing yeah I like that so I I was gonna contact Tony and tell him you know - don\u0027t give up hope so so yeah and that\u0027s something I\u0027m not going to give up on so until you guys kick me out so we see this as I I have a real we have a problem space that we need to solve somehow so candidates for adoption they\u0027re authoritative recommendations I couldn\u0027t is fairly interesting and it\u0027s on Friday\u0027s agenda so he just can\u0027t stop naming things right so so Paul\u0027s Paul\u0027s document actually got some interesting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "feedback about certain things so we do think there\u0027s some things in there we should add some of it seems a little excessive but you know I\u0027m letting the working group sort of sort of hand that out do you like my new label so it\u0027s perfect so also I spoke with Daniel about the validator requirements document I know there\u0027s been some interesting discussions and it looks like it\u0027s starting to come together so if he gets some good updates coming in the next month or so we may actually put that up and see how the list says and so I\u0027m hoping to do call for adoption before Montreal if it all comes together right we\u0027ll see how that goes so yeah these are some other documents the gang ones mean these are all being talked about today Jason\u0027s got two documents he presented in Hawaii thought he had him adopted I think because he got good feedback and then he disappeared and then he came back and said oh no they\u0027ve been about that and it was like no no you know they were just sort of presented sort of thing but they are interesting and so officially with a lot of the DSX stuff there\u0027s some you know interesting places there you know our stuffs in the data tracker our stuff seen github we try to keep things up to date so you can always just go check the links and here\u0027s our agenda Schumann and Pilate are going to talk about first chess IRAs gonna give a quick in a status update thing he\u0027s got only a couple minutes so he\u0027s gonna keep it short mostly we want you to sort of make sure the Dinah\u0027s people are paying attention to some of those service discovery graphs so keep and then Sarah\u0027s gonna talk hackathon results and then we\u0027ll get into this which is shoe mount puabi talking about multiple Rider Paul talking about 7006 Biss he\u0027s being requirements are current which I know doing presented in T CPM so I\u0027d like to hear about that and then to Jason\u0027s documents and then the n thing and we put this in we also because the chairs always want to know we want like where are we going with these documents so we kind of put these little action things in there do we think it\u0027s this we think it\u0027s sad because we kind of want to be transparent with you guys but we also want to put stuff in that we know this things were moving sort of thing not so we\u0027re just much presenting for the sake of presenting all the time so so let\u0027s so let\u0027s get started with some good times mr. Stewart get moving buddy as requested I\u0027ll keep this quick three documents to talk about first one Gianna stateful operations of my co-authors are in the room this is done and published that\u0027s good that was holding up DNS push notifications which is built on top of that as a foundation in doing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:09",
    "text": "implementation Ted lemon found some anomalous we had previously decided to adopt the DNS update format for encoding changes this was before DNA stateful operations even existed as a draft and Bob Brisco convinced us that building this on top of DSO was a good move which I agree with and we never revisited some of those early design decisions and Ted discovered that there was an issue that there was no way to express the DNS class when records would delete it now we know that pns class is hardly used but we didn\u0027t feel it was the role of the DNS search discovery working group to be deprecating glasses that\u0027s a decision for this group to make but not for our document so we made some small changes to the documents we\u0027ll be redoing the workgroup last call in the self discovery group before that goes to IETF last call the other change we made was in writing the code Ted lemon realized that for the reconfirm operation there was really nothing useful the client could do with the reply so it was just extra bytes over-the-air for no reason extra code waiting for a reply that just going to be ignored so we changed that to be a DSO unidirectional message again when we started this work there was no such thing as a unidirectional message so now that DSO is finished and published we\u0027re taking advantage of the facilities that has available I\u0027m here drawing this to your attention because we would like review and feedback obviously we don\u0027t think there\u0027s any problem with this but we want to make sure everybody is aware of it our goal is to have this because it\u0027s really finished and has been implemented and reviewed and is very mature now we\u0027d like to get this through the process so that in Montreal I can stand up here and say we have another RFC published and then the final one is the discovery proxy again in the course of what would had Lemmon doing some implementation he had a few questions about things that weren\u0027t clear my belief is that nothing has changed in the document in terms of the specification and there are no changes to musts or shoulds or maze or behavior there is some more explanatory text which reveals things that were kind of in the document but a bit hidden before one of the main points is that the idea of the discovery proxy is that you pick a subdomain of the DNS namespace and map that onto the dot local namespace of a particular link using multicast DNS and broadly speaking there\u0027s a bi-directional one-to-one mapping that every record that exists in the dot local namespace has a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:10",
    "text": "corresponding name translated into the DNS tree but there are some exceptions for example link local address records in the local domain are generally not translated because they\u0027re not usable outside the local link and in the other direction there are some SRV records which conceptually give metadata about the zone so the dns llq SRV records the dns push notification SRV record they give the target host and port for that service they don\u0027t exist in the dot local name space on the link so we have added some text to the document that discusses these differences and surfaces them so they don\u0027t come as a surprise I will be sending an email to the list summarizing those changes I\u0027m here requesting that people take a look at that and if you agree that these are just changes in explanatory text then quick email saying so would be helpful if you think this changes anything in terms of the protocol please say that too and if we have to read to another ITF last call we will we want to be transparent about this and our goal is to end up with a better document that is more readable and more informative because that\u0027s what we\u0027re here for Thank You Stuart for sharing this with Edina zop please review okay thanks next Sarah so what I just wanted to do is run over the results from the hackathon at weekend and we called our table everything DNS because we know do so many different things each of these hackathons we as usual had a lot of people 21 people this time plus some other people coming in and out we had five projects with kind of multiple people working on them and then five other smaller projects that went on so I\u0027ll just touch on four of the larger projects the first one which has already been mentioned so I\u0027m not sure there\u0027s much more to say in terms of the draft itself but just to point out that the work that was done was implementations in both not resolver and and unbound so if you want to go and look at the results of that implementation that\u0027s where you should go and my understanding is an implementation in DNS tests is also in progress for that second project was des cookies so cookies have been around a while but the various vendors had realized that there\u0027s a problem with interoperability that one implementation couldn\u0027t validate a cookie issued by a different implementation so we\u0027ll only put together and Kowal says I put "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:12",
    "text": "together this draft which came out just before the submissions deadline and at the hackathon people got together worked on this and we now have five interoperable implementations that can do this cross validation of the cookies which is a really nice result there was also work at this hackathon on Dennis over quick the original draft for this came out in 2007 but stalled a bit because of decisions in the quick working group to limit the scope of version one of quick what happened the hackathon is there was a current implementation in flamethrower which is a DNS performance tool written in C++ which is now hosted by Iraq and quick was added to that tool and on the server side what they did was they just wrote a proxy to proxy the DNS coming in over quick to UDP and they got this to work and I don\u0027t know if you know the implementers would say anything about this but my understanding is that now we\u0027ve got this sort of proof of concept there\u0027s much more interest now and actually going forward in doing some performance measurements so we can actually begin to understand how this performs compared to dot and doe so is that why DNS or doe over quick more DNS as specified in the draft that came came out linked and the last of the biggest project was XFR over TLS which we have decided to name as ott and so in order to and if you\u0027re a fan of Star Wars rebels apparently that\u0027s what is that looks like you know so just walk this work that was more work done on a while the ancient patch to NSD it\u0027s been brought up to date and it\u0027s been some had had some features added and I believe there are plans to incorporate that into NST so that would be the first authority of open-source implementation group so as well as doing that what was what was actually done is that the sauce it was NSD worked as the master and because it was a quick thing to implement unbanned actually acted as a secondary because a it can do TLS upstream already and it can receive zones over ayat so far a feature that was implemented so it could serve zones locally so the work was done and we got the connectivity working between these two implementations so that\u0027s all good what we did realize is that we need to take a step back and really think about the authentication model here because you have various combinations of Ackles T cig potentially certificate authentication so we need to work through what are actually the best things to propose there another thing that came out of this discussion though is that it dawned on us that given that we now have stateful operations as Narcy there is potential here to change the model of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "exif our and use stateful operations such that a secondary would connect to the master and it would subscribe to the set of zones it wanted to receive updates from and then the master could use a push mechanism to propagate changes downstream now we need to look into all the details of this because you could potentially also extend this to having a control channel where the server could signal to the secondary for example stop serving the zone delete the zone etc so you could communicate properties about the zone along this channel as well so there\u0027s some potential that have explored around what we could do with that this is just the list of the other topics there was work on yang models work on doe support and stubby a dentist at multiplexer a resolver testbed working dr. Dennis Python and work on zone MD in net DNS as well this was a team that was there we had five first-timers at this axon which was really good that six sorry I can\u0027t count at six thank you and that\u0027s everything I think we have time for a couple of questions if anybody has them Paul Hoffman not a question but an exhortation I have found on going to the hackathons I was the one people who worked on the minor thing on my own but sitting at tables with people people would say out loud blah-de-blah and then a minor discussion would happen which almost always turned into code it wasn\u0027t like when we\u0027re sitting out here in the hall and oh we can develop this new protocol and I have some issues with it\u0027s tough because you are just developing you know xfr version 2 or version 4 depending on how you count um but at a hackathon if you have code that you are working on do consider coming to the hackathon because you are around people you can sort of say I\u0027m thinking of this and people will actually contribute ideas that are for code not just for protocol development absolutely thank you yeah to that comment Deanna\u0027s because because it has to live in the real world of deployed reality DNS participation and the hackathon has actually been really good and both implementers and operators seem to be finding it very helpful okay Shuman your next profiling hello so we\u0027ll talk about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "the DNS SEC multi provider DNS SEC draft so this draft tries to address the problem of deploying DNS SEC for zones that are signed and hosted simultaneously by multiple DNS providers we first presented this draft in ITF 101 and it got adopted by the working group after ITF 102 so since then we have received a lot of comments on the mailing list and based on those comments we have updated the draft so what we did was made the draft now focus more on the multi signer DNS 8 models please see the draught talked a little bit about the so only model which is primary secondary or online on the wire signing type of model but we have removed those and just focused the draft on the two multi signer models we also added a section on provider migration or inter provider handoff of DNS SEC sign domains in this case the providers could be registrar registry and that\u0027s the section that we are going to flesh out a little bit more the another section that we added was key management API requirement so this is the API that will be used to manage the keys between the two providers of the multi provider DNS SEC so how this kind of specifies or give a generic format of how the key management what functions it should do the API - between the two providers without going into too much specifics and then lastly we have added some text to the security consideration section it was TBD for a long time and then now Schumann will talk about the pending work ok thanks so I noticed on the agenda the chairs had listed whether or not this document is ready from working group last call and I think in the opinion of the authors is not quite ready yet because there\u0027s a bunch of pending work which I am now going to mention so because we refocused the document on only the multi signer models I think it\u0027s appropriate to now rename the title of the document also so he said a multi provider DNS SEC models we\u0027re going to call it multi signer DNS supporters so if anyone has any objections I haven\u0027t heard any from anyone so far please speak up otherwise that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to go with in the next version so we had a few requests from colleagues to add since we mentioned two models we don\u0027t really "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "give any advice on how people should select a particular model we had a debate originally about whether to kind of narrow it down to only one model and remove this question of how to choose but we decided in the end that you know we\u0027re probably not going to be able to agree on on the model because different people have different preferences so what we\u0027re going to do is just add a section outlining the pros and cons of each so that people can choose as mentioned we\u0027re going to also flesh out the inter provider handoff section so this wasn\u0027t discussed in the original version of the document but you know lots of people are interested in this subject because if you think about it B what the shaft talks about is a model where we have steady state operation of two simultaneous sining providers but the intro provider handout problem of handing off a secure zone non-disruptive lee from one provider to another you can think of it just as a kind of interim transitional state of this model so it\u0027s easy to apply the mechanisms the key sharing mechanism described in this document to solve that problem - so we\u0027re going to provide some more explicit text about that subject and then another recent thing that came up I think Tony Finch brought up how these models can be used with CDNs and CDNs key I answered it on the list and I think this is just some very simple enhancements this can be accommodated and everything will work fine so we\u0027ll flush that out and lastly a question that has been asked a number of times of us is do we need to flash out an abstract API for a key management and key share as part of this document and we don\u0027t have that right now as Paula we mentioned we added a section on API requirements or what functions a specific appian needs to provide so that you can successfully deploy these models I think that\u0027s probably the best we can do because as it turns out this topic is fairly complicated most of the managing providers each have their own proprietary api\u0027s right they\u0027re not going to switch to a new one just because we design one so the best we can do is propose what functions they need to implement in their API and most of those api\u0027s today frankly they\u0027re they\u0027re not dns-based they\u0027re typically west over https something like that and what this thing in theory the API is needed to implement these models could be done using DNS update or even EPP so far I haven\u0027t seen much interest from any of the parties interested in these proposals to do that so the document right now takes an entirely agnostic approach so these are the functions you need to implement we don\u0027t care about what API is deployed to implement those things all right and then the other thing we\u0027re doing in parallel is we\u0027re working with some running code so IETF 102 which is in Montreal I think we deployed prototypes of birth of these models we tested them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:18",
    "text": "with a whole bunch of open source validating resolvers and confirmed that they seem to work fine there is a key management provider interfaced and by my colleague Yann who\u0027s an author of this document I\u0027m going to call him up in a little bit later to talk about that in more detail and the last thing we\u0027re doing is even though the primary use case that originally motivated these document this document was working with commercial managed DNS providers that have these traffic management features that were difficult to sign in a cooperative fashion across providers it turns out you know open source is not inconceivable that people will want to do this with open source implementations too so we would like to see how difficult it is to get these mechanisms supported in open source and then so the primary the prime use case for that is the inter provider handoff you may not be using any traffic management features you\u0027re using the open source implementation but you still want to use this stuff right I\u0027ve done some tests with bind and at least the second model seems to be quite easy to support out of the box even with their auto automated DNS SEC management systems and I\u0027ve had some you know most of the Boyne developers here it turns out so I had some productive discussions with some of my colleagues there about how to implement the second one so we\u0027re not quite sure that that one well the second one meaning the first model that\u0027s one I haven\u0027t yet tested so I was advised to try it out and if it doesn\u0027t work let\u0027s fix that and we\u0027re going to look at a few other open-source implementations too and now I\u0027m gonna call young thank you so she already said a lot of stuff that I originally wanted to say about the existing code that we that we have like in Martin in Montreal at a hackathon we met for the first time to try this out and we wrote a like simple prototype glue code that just implemented this abstract API or this API that we describe for a virgin generic way and it made us work with no DNS in mind by just like taking the bind signing utilities or exciting the coqui separately stitching it all together and about month after the hackathon we actually tried to important this at Aswan to figure out like if there\u0027s some different considerations and it seems that the interface could be like real lightweight we are also talking to different providers who want to support this and we came with something which we called a key manager which can can can like apply on both on this model model one and model two so this diagram just shows how this key manager could work and it also like implies how the interface could look like so in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:20",
    "text": "upper power like whatever is in the upper part is essentially the inner workings of key manager and what you see on the bottom is the API you know the providers so the power is provides some different different interfaces could be REST API in case of s1 is a REST API and the key manager runs on schedule so the first step is always to like pull the public keys from all the providers collect all the information if the provider uses both the provider always has at least one key signing key so it science this and produces DNS key CDNs CCDs set depends on configuration and alongside with a configuration and pushes these records back to the providers because the whole point of this from the political perspective is to keep the DNS records and saying and this appears to work in both models one and models a models two because this key manager can run independent play at each provider and they just need to support each other\u0027s api\u0027s or you can run this provider completely separately sorry this manager completed separately from your from your providers and you can have better control over the KSK for instance yeah I think that that\u0027s it we are definitely looking for feedback on this because our document is informative and we don\u0027t know if it makes sense to come up with something more descriptive and I think it will be really I personally think it will be very hard to agree on something because I don\u0027t know I guess open source vendors will want to do this like inbound or DNS protocol other providers probably want to use REST API with different authentication mechanisms and I think it\u0027s just difficult to agree on this yeah so better ask me a question quickly so better ask me when will we be done with this document so my answer to that is I\u0027m going to be optimistic and say the pending tasks that we listed in one of the slides we\u0027re going to try and get that done by the next IETF so within the next few months so we\u0027ll see we\u0027ll see how that goes and we\u0027re open for questions Paul Hoffman on your pending tasks can you go back to that that possible this might be the bad idea ferry speaking but the intro provider handoff section you said you want it you know it\u0027s specified now how you do it with two active ones how do you bring one on how do you get rid of one yeah so that\u0027s also part of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:21",
    "text": "it so I mentioned so will I mean will you be adding next so there\u0027s really for this document to be complete we need to solve the problem have how to not solve the problem at least describe how you onboard a second provider an additional provider and how you how you get rid of providers right so that\u0027s all part of the provide our handoff section and I think we at least plan plan to tackle that Paul enough answer your question okay I belong to open l mat lab so I\u0027m conveying a question from aerilon for Iraq and all that Lots on the previous picture what\u0027s the difference between the Green and the blue key shining keys oh yes sorry the diagram is incomplete the blue can blue key is the private key this comes with different diagrams that we used in different contexts so so all the keys you see the the green one or the purple one and the orange one is our public keys the blue one is private KSK but it matches the green one [Music] John rate my one question is will this is this intended as a model for steady state operations where someone has to providers for resiliency or is it intended more for transitioning between providers or both or is there no intention anyway so the original intention was steady state operation of multiple signing providers so based on feedback we\u0027ve gotten we\u0027ve since incorporated other functions such as provider handoff and transitions but I think the original folk this document was at least steady-state operation of multiple providers but I think we\u0027re gonna tackle that bunch of additional things ok thanks and then if we\u0027re considering migration does that imply that eventually there would be an update to RFC six seven eight one that would get rid of this idea of non canonical operators yeah so that\u0027s right now for example that\u0027s it\u0027s perfectly acceptable to unsigned the zone yeah cuz that\u0027s the way it is right so though the people who first accosted us about this inter provider of people were from the ICANN and community that has to deal with this problem and they\u0027re actually really looking for a document from IETF that states this is the way you should do it so that you don\u0027t have to go unsigned so if we produce this document I think that would help them in their conversations and I can about how to address that problem all right thank you yeah cause tengo Tov this might be out of scope for the document but have you considered using a threshold signature scheme possibly with a threshold of one if any of the providers can sign it to maybe keep the protocol a bit simpler we have not considered that but I guess I mean that\u0027s a possible option we\u0027ll think about it can with sinski I know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:26",
    "text": "reg X is got a bunch of stuff around registry handoff stuff and there they were looking at this stuff but it was I I think we need to stop them before they do something bad also there\u0027s a side meeting tomorrow Alexandre mayor Hoff is putting a theater on registry super lock and some of the discussions around that and when I discussed TS key sort of handoff he said oh yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s a different thing and then he just kind of walked away but if you\u0027re if you\u0027re into that sort of namespace I think that\u0027s a sort of a you know I can\u0027t exactly remember I think it\u0027s like three o\u0027clock or so like that so that\u0027s a little meaning sort of show up on but he said it\u0027s a small room so maybe not everybody shows up that\u0027s all so okay it\u0027s just a heads-up right all right we want to stop the registration doing like weirder things yep okay all right we\u0027ll try to clue ourselves into what\u0027s going on there I don\u0027t think this is the appropriate place to say where we need to stop registrar\u0027s from doing stuff that just now Paul Hoffman wearing my I can hat we don\u0027t get to tell registrar\u0027s what to do or not I\u0027m not sure the IHF is a good one either I look at this Mike the first question I ask is how do you how do you do policy separation how do you keep provider a from signing provider B\u0027s things and oh by the way who\u0027s signing the in SEC records if you\u0027ve got multiple providers okay so I think I have a simple answer that question so what what is happening in these cases is each provider is independently signing the entire zone data the the DNS key our set is treated differently and the way you have to carefully manage the contents of the DNS key are set so that all providers the union of all the providers own signing keys that there\u0027s the validator can always have a valid path to be able to authenticate an answer no matter where you could have cashed the DNS key are set from one provider and got a signed response of a data record from another it needs to be able to authenticate that so you\u0027re adding additional signatures that you don\u0027t really need you know we\u0027re not adding additional signatures we\u0027re adding we\u0027re importing additional zone signing keys into the apex DNS key are set but the published data set includes signatures over the RR sets by different providers by different you just told me the entire zone was signed by her by both providers yeah independently so depending if you get a response from provider a you\u0027ll get a response ID by providers ain\u0027t zone sign key if you get a response from the other provider it\u0027ll be signed by their zone okay and it does work we\u0027ve tested it and validating resolvers don\u0027t do not treat this as a problem one more point to add is you mentioned an SEC 3 so we have addressed that also in the draft where if the two providers "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:26",
    "text": "have different modes of doing in securing like then secretary param might be different but the suggestion is both should have one cannot do in sec another do in sit three so I\u0027m just saying that because you mentioned in sectorally also so that\u0027s addressed in the draft and I just wanna I\u0027m just reminded that someone would cost to me the question just before this this meeting and I think that was wealth and he was talking about how we gonna mention anything about the fact that you could get packet size increases in this configuration and so I think I\u0027d forgotten about I was planning to do that at some point so in this scenario what happens is the DNS key are set increases in size depending on the model so those will be bigger than a normal DNS key our our set response but normal long DNS key responses there is no change to the packet size there and it turns out if you\u0027re using something like ECDSA you can stuff a whole bunch of keys in a DNS key record without even going anywhere near the internet em to you so I don\u0027t think there\u0027ll be a practical operational problem yes final final question but there\u0027s about six is ethnic I do think this through but think about aggressive caching and what could happen just make sure that you\u0027ve thought about it yeah I can answer it works okay yeah if the providers use different different and psych methods or they\u0027ve all cashed it in independently it\u0027s similar you can roll between and second and six three you can change it and six we params and it works it\u0027s it\u0027s slightly less effective and we are definitely not doing it easier for for there is over body warts and we have a section in the draft that like suggest you use the same and segment con isn\u0027t meant to use the same and six resolve okay thanks thank you yeah so what we had said about this draft on the agenda was to check whether it was ready for working group last call and I think it pretty clearly isn\u0027t but the next room will try to go ahead and so maybe for Montreal do you keep the you keep those cards and letters because this is still very actively under development but it sounds like it\u0027s getting there thank you guys let\u0027s see yeah oh well this next hi there this is just a very brief update on the 7706 Biss oh wow let\u0027s see if it works does work okay so since the last meaning we\u0027ve published two drafts when I say we it\u0027s Warren Kumari and I Lauren looks up and goes oh yeah my co-author yes you are so the o2 is people were asking since "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "this is 7706 Biss 7706 had a very specific set of goals and the working group we had started seven when we started the original 7706 work it was widened the working group asked us to narrow it so that we could finish we did but for 7706 many people have been asking us to widen them again because now with operational experience this seems reasonable so we we clarified the new goals in Oh two and we added an example of unbound 1.80 three which we just published we added an example for by 914 which was a little bit premature because by 914 came out a week after the draft did but it seems to still be correct I checked that so these are the two drafts since the last meeting so in the working room share said hey is this ready yet so we the authors don\u0027t think that is actually completely ready yet because we know that there are other providers of this root zone data that will be coming out the examples in the current draft or how to do it with current or expected future although now its current resolver software with getting things from the root zone servers that was what was done was hard occur at isi has a project called local root and it would be nice to actually talk about that as a provider in the talk and for those of you don\u0027t know local where\u0027s there the URL lots of people here have heard that I can is working on something called hyperlocal but we haven\u0027t released it yet so that\u0027s in the future as well and there may be other people who have also thought about how do we provide this root zone data other than the ways that are currently in the draft so we the authors think that in fact it\u0027s probably worth waiting to finish this document before you know since we know these provide these data providers are coming out and once we have a collection of those so we know that there\u0027s at least two and maybe other people are thinking of becoming a data provider for the root zone in different ways have a section on those as well to sort of complement the how do you turn this on in your resolver I think that\u0027s the last one yeah so that\u0027s what we\u0027re thinking now we still would love comments and suggestions on how to you know improve the document until then but we might wait for a bit so that\u0027s it and Wes is coming to the mic yeah this is a Paul vixie it\u0027s Wes Parker at is I wearing my Paul vixie hat why is the root special the roots not special actually we\u0027ve said that in the current talk in the current draft so I guess part of it comes to if we\u0027re gonna open it up and make it a more widely used "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:27",
    "text": "thing why not actually make it even more generic and say this is how you you know can mirror any zone that allows you to do such things I mean is you mentioned local route I do appreciate you dropping my name there it\u0027s actually not your name is your projects name but that\u0027s okay because you said your name was Paul vixie so we the local root project actually offers that are born roots on frank net and we\u0027re planning on doing some other ones that i mean hopefully in the future as well yeah and this seems like a useful technology to basically do pre-caching of an entire zone for any zone that wants to allow a correct zone to be done all at once obviously sort of youthful to actually put in some words in there saying though though we\u0027re talking about the root zone it\u0027s like I did in o3 but it was it was essentially a sentence because someone on my onliest might even been you said is this special so we said no but we don\u0027t have any examples of that so if you look in the in the appendices all over the examples are for the route because that\u0027s the only one that is generally being pushed out now I think that if we have more interest in the non root zones for this we would also want to actually put in examples in the appendices so it was completely clear that that\u0027s what we were doing you know not just saying words up in the front but have examples of doing it for other zones okay fair enough and by the way some of your root zone lists are not actually synchronized oh so that was what I did in otwo so if I messed it up by all means let me know yeah one of the configs doesn\u0027t have like the I can transfer okay one and the other yeah send a message on that a lot of people implement from examples on one of those people and so getting the examples wrong for me is really bad yeah and if you want to list local route as another is another zone transfer place you know we just support open transfers you if you don\u0027t if you go through your local route then you can actually get at e-cig key and do it securely so yeah you know we would want you to describe that I\u0027d be happy to yeah as a separate thing because again even once local route is out there and once you know I can has ours out there that\u0027s not to say these are the only places to get them right it would be great to have other people who are thinking hey well I can do a better job at this or I can do a local job of this have pretty complete information on what the current folks are doing I will send text yep thanks hello unclear sorta as you just mentioned that that scheme that only works for the root zone but only for our part in not us our party it works for any zone yes it works for image are even further it\u0027s something that anybody that operates that that mechanism could immediately try out and see that it works simply a simple poof right although the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:28",
    "text": "side note on that is this should only be done for zones where the zone administrator wants to have them distributed this way the fact that some zones are accidentally available does not mean that you should use them because sometimes that accidental availability is not updated as often as the zone ministry would want for the root zone mm-hmm you know that is something that we know is stable it\u0027s very easy to see when it comes out other zones are not so careful about that so I would not say if you find a zone sitting around someplace you can use it for this map on set I I\u0027m this isn\u0027t a fully fledged yet idea I just it just occurred to me a second ago but if if a listing sort of non I can projects for downloading stuff or even I can project or even I can yeah well it all though this applies unless I can the side projects come and go and and I suppose if you were listing a web page that describes the availability and I just come and go that\u0027s true I guess yeah right but just but it just occurs to me that maybe there needs to be something in there talking about the fact that sometimes these things might disappear and you need to be prepared to do and maybe stuck with the last zone if you are not monitoring yeah absolutely and that was part of 7706 because one of one of the things that people were concerned about I don\u0027t know Andrew Sullivan are you in the room that Andrew had brought up when we were developing 7706 is if you get if you\u0027re like saying oh I\u0027m gonna do this by mirroring you know from from the root servers and you end up stuck on one and you don\u0027t realize it and that one goes away it gets remembered or something you might not know that you\u0027re stuck with an old root zone for a while so the actually going back to what I had asked to the Mike on the last one off-boarding is really important for this so I would expect when Wes you know when you provide your words on it you will tell people how to tell if they are stuck we would have to do the same for hyperlocal and such like that this is pretty important other questions okay so we were questioning to sit my mind to address so you put at icons a hyperlocal future yep but can you give a timeline you know well I mean I could yes you want me to lie do you want me to know there wouldn\u0027t be any problems after the key revocation and I was blaming the wrong about I mean I can keep predicting as much as you want but it\u0027s useless okay I mean again I I do it all the time but that doesn\u0027t mean you want it no but maybe you have an idea about one year less than two years if it\u0027s I mean I would if it\u0027s more than two years there\u0027s no way we\u0027re gonna hold this document for okay thank you that\u0027s what I want to hear okay thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:32",
    "text": "next Dwayne there we go so this is about a draft called do you know stop TCP requirements this was the slide deck was really written for the TCP maintenance working group but I thought we\u0027d give it here so this is this is cutting pace from the abstract of the document and it talks about how this is advice to operators saying why you should you know why all the reasons why you should support DNS over TCP and the kind of bad things that could happen to you if you don\u0027t for some reason if you don\u0027t support it in your network again this there\u0027s a lot of history here which was written for that other audience but the gist of this is that there was some early RFC\u0027s that sort of had the head language another that treated DNS over TCP a little bit differently than over UDP and it led to this sort of convention that you would only do TCP for zone transfers on that got us to a point in you know the like the late 80s 90s where we were seeing that those sort of things were blocked in firewalls and and in 2010 Rey RFC 59 66 which adesh addressed thought it was misconceptions and said hey you know TCP DNS over TCP is really important and you should treat it the same as UDP felt like that RFC went a little bit unnoticed and kind of didn\u0027t go far enough so it was it was revised see the situation is if you\u0027ve got a large response in DNS or UDP your choices either to fragment it or to truncate it both of these can encounter problems the fragments can be blocked in firewalls the tcp can be blocked in firewalls and of course if you find yourself in that situation you may be facing a little latency a lot of us know that today Dinah\u0027s clients have to have a lot of retry logic around this where they\u0027ll hunt for the right size that can get through and and so on so RFC 77 66 DNS transport over TCP implementation requirements revised that that older one it made no recommendations to operators and and had had sort of these recommendations here that said you know implementations must support both TCP and UDP note that clients may elect to use TCP first don\u0027t assume that they would do UDP first and then and then fall back to TCP and so on but the draft that we\u0027re talking about today is the companion document to that which is advice to operators for DNS over TCP and it\u0027s just a lot of the same things you know it says that both must "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:33",
    "text": "be supported in the network it says that the name server may limit the resources that it devotes to TCP but it must not refuse TCP just because the same thing would have succeeded over UDP or some other transport notes that filtering of DNS over TCP is is a really bad idea in general you know there may be some reasons why you need to do it but in general it\u0027s it\u0027s considered harmful and operators must allow both both transports when when servicing TCP or DNS sorry so there\u0027s a few sections in there that get into more specifics the first section is about connection admission and here\u0027s a bunch of you know must should must nots these are all pretty much cut and paste from from the draft so you know it talks about well first it says the sim cookies or it can be effective in mitigating attacks services that are not intended for use by the public should be protected by Echols specifically calls out FreeBSD has this this nice except filter thing where you can you can sort of protect the application from connections that aren\u0027t fully established and so on let\u0027s see it says applications must not be configured to read to refuse TCP queries that were not preceded by UDP so that\u0027s just just repeating something from earlier says the DNS servers should enable TCP fest open when possible and if you have a cluster you should use the same key on all those instances the dephts also says that clients should enable TFO when possible and some of the feedback I got in the TCP working group yesterday was the perhaps this this should here was a bit too strong for the way things are today and that should be changed to main there was some feedback that there\u0027s not not quite perfect interoperation among TCP fest open at this point in time so next after you know your connections established you have to think about connection management and the draft says that servers must actively manage their connections you know to purport to prevent resource exhaustion there\u0027s number of ways that can be done you can provide configurable limits on the total number of TCP connections you can provide limits on the number of connections per address or per subnet you can have limits on timeouts you can provide configurable limits on the number of transactions per connection or the total time of a connection so all of these things are are described here with again different you know may should language for connection termination the draft talks about you know it says that it\u0027s very preferable if clients are the ones that close the connection so they bear the the time wait state burden on systems "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:35",
    "text": "where servers end up with a lot of sockets in time wait state may be a benefit to to tune local TC parameters V parameters so that that doesn\u0027t become a problem and in very extreme cases you could use this s olinger trick with a value of zero to to avoid sockets accumulating in that state altogether and a few miscellaneous points it\u0027s somewhere in the middle towards the end of the draft it says that the recommendations here apply equally well to DNS over TLS some of the feedback I got yesterday was that this should be there should be moving up higher in the document so that readers have this in mind from the very start this draft does not say anything about DNS over HTTP which I think that\u0027s probably the right thing but I just wanted to note it in case someone else didn\u0027t have that same assumption and then there\u0027s a section about you know logging because analyzing and monitoring queries over TCP can be a little bit problematic because you have to do all the things that TCP does you have to you know think about connection reuse and reassembling and out of order and all that kind of stuff so talks about that and that\u0027s the summary of the draft I think jeez I don\u0027t know what what revision we\u0027re at now 3 3 this is revision 3 it\u0027s been it\u0027s been out there for a couple of years we\u0027re trying to revive it and progress it so welcome your feedback sorry to consume from sin erdan so three quick comments one there are also previously concerns with recommending TFO in terms of tracking so I think backing off that with the current understandings probably the right thing okay yes yes yes two Els to be stronger as a requirement here and it\u0027s it\u0027s literally just become an RFC but do you have any thoughts about statements on using or support for DSO but maybe that\u0027s something we can talk about online just to say that these this advice applies to DSO as well that that\u0027s what you\u0027re suggesting well I\u0027m wondering we should think about where this fits because this is sort of assuming that what you\u0027re implementing is 77 66 and I think there\u0027s a currently the language is a bit tangled up with doing that but if you could equally want to support that and ESO so maybe we just need to find a little bit language to reference whether it\u0027s really new but I think that even if somebody wants to send help me write things that would be great yeah yeah what\u0027s hurt occur is high so 7706 has these really useful little config snippets and an appendix that would be kind of cool here for some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:35",
    "text": "of the stuff okay we\u0027ll think about that yeah but there\u0027s projects see that make a data point from the recent DNS Flag Day no matter what we write in the RFC if it\u0027s just the proposed standard some operators will claim this just proposed standard that\u0027s not the internet standard because the internist and that is only RFC 1055 and for the for and that was the argument I was hearing again and again during the Flag Day for not doing TCP and all this stuff because it\u0027s not the internet standard so one thing to think about is how do we promote this or the previous documents like seven 7 six 6 to the Internet standard so we have like bigger sign on it saying oh you really should follow just yeah I don\u0027t think I can answer that but I can talk to people and try to find out like something for the chose to follow up thank you so more reading our refuse would be very welcome of the documents it was in the mailing list hasn\u0027t had been contributions by the group but there I think 101 yeah not so much on the mailing list so please do review the documents yeah so there\u0027s there\u0027s been a number of feedback so I\u0027ll put a new version out or one of us will put a new version out soon yeah how much has anybody had a chance to review compliance of actual implementations with what you\u0027re recommending have you or anyone you know of at all but this document is advice to operators the previous one is the implementation and I think that\u0027s probably out of scope for this one the underlying question that was is how much are people actually doing the right thing and we\u0027re codifying it and how much are we trying to get them to start doing the right yeah so a I\u0027m not I\u0027m not aware of like any tools that we can all just go out and and install maybe Jerry but no but I hear anecdotally that you know TCP support is pretty good in general except when it comes to maybe some of the harder things like pipelining and reordering and stuff like that so I think we\u0027re close but not all the way there Sarah may have some data I was just gonna say for open source implementations some of the web pages on the DNS privacy to old website try to reflect what is implemented in terms of TCP support for some of these features an TLS support in the open source implementations so that that\u0027s there and I\u0027m constantly updating it and if you spot a mistake on that please send it to me cuz things can slip by but that\u0027s the best reference point we really have for where the open source implementations are with all this support for all this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:35",
    "text": "it probably doesn\u0027t say what the default for those are just whether it\u0027s capable of it so maybe that\u0027s something to add maybe that\u0027d be something really good to adults are meant to do that okay well thank you thank you next Jason all right this is what so yeah what just one slide said fullscreen there all right so this is to DNS ops related drafts these were developed way back when we were starting our DNS SEC deployment and there were sort of three drafts the first was negative trust anchors and got that one done and then these were sort of the other ones that were to the side and I sort of forgot about them for a while and then keeps coming up again and again and hitting our DNS ops team and so I opened the back up and so you know they were motivated by a pattern over many years basically consuming a lot of time and attention of our DNS ops team and the two key things were one recursive operator is getting blamed for the mistakes made in authoritative records or by authoritative providers and then often when those things happened or just generally people recommending if you ever see a Dena Secura the thing to do is to switch to a resolver that doesn\u0027t validate which seems nuts and so you know this imposes as a DNS operator or cost and operators and it perpetuates a bunch of misconceptions outside of this working group about how DNS works and it creates a lot especially around DNS heck enablement a lot of you know misconceptions that are problematic when you\u0027re trying to get more people to use validating resolvers and so I thought some informational documents might be helpful hopefully this work might be interested if not for my own personal sanity I\u0027ll probably take them ahead as individual documents just because it would be very satisfying just to be able to point to them regularly so here is a recent example so you know Windows 10 updates are broken again but it\u0027s not Microsoft\u0027s fault and then here\u0027s what you should do change your DNS settings to these you know recommended resolvers and then like a day later oops now Microsoft says an external DNS provider meaning one of their off providers had a problem and it\u0027s going to take a while for downstream DNS servers to be updated which basically means they had a bad resource record they\u0027d wait for it to the TTL to expire out of cache you know but in the midst of this lots of people were encouraged to actively switch to non validating resolvers and told that their resolve or operator was in fact the fault of the proud you know the the the problem neither if there was things were true and this happens all the time and we\u0027ve got an example going back even to when the negative trust banker stuff was set up I think that time was like nasa.gov or something so you know the two key messages and the respective "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:36",
    "text": "drafts are you know if resource record whether that\u0027s Dena sec related or not just a regular one is bad or missing or broken or whatever has a problem that\u0027s not something that it was all over operator can fix it seems obvious certainly to all of us but it\u0027s not obvious to literally anyone else and so you know we can\u0027t really fix that as it was all of our operator right the authoritative has to fix it and of course if Dena suck validation fails well you know it might be for a kind of a legitimate reason right and how do you know whether it\u0027s legit or not probably shouldn\u0027t tell people you know to switch to an anvil mining validating resolver to get access to that maybe you should put pressure on the people to have better signing procedures and to fix that that issue you know if indeed it\u0027s not a security issue so you know it\u0027s a sort of a security downgrade sort of thing so I think you know that\u0027s sort of the key summary the documents are very simple at a high level and I think the question is you know are they interesting at all to they work group I\u0027m sure other resolver record has seen similar sort of stuff over the years and had to deal with these things so as simple as that is the queue open Gorge for my penis Jason so okay I\u0027m running the queue that\u0027s power that\u0027s incredible power so I think I\u0027m mentally summarized don\u0027t blame the recursive problems in the authoritative and then I thought when the signalling bandwidth is served fail right how do you know so I think you have to you must say you\u0027ve got to do extended errors if you want to provide ambiguity disambiguation because otherwise how do I know because all I got was surf though you did that that\u0027s a good suggestion thanks to mrs. ski I read both of these over the weekend and after we sort of figured out where they went you don\u0027t think they can be combined into one by the lake on yatha yes an historical that was sort of my thought is and maybe the working group can sort of decide that because they sort of feel like they yeah together and you know they have similar sort of sections and stuff okay Jimmy I think it\u0027s a good idea Jason and I would like to see they\u0027re walking you to pick this thing up and take it forward one comment we make my to look at is issues around validation resolvers that will do soft feel and return answers which are known to be bad because the signatures feel and maybe some texturing that might be the next document yeah that\u0027s nice making I see yeah I also wanna strengthen the point the Tim neg that I think this should be one document but and personally I think it\u0027s too obvious that I think well should there even be in documents for this but you make a fair point that outside this room people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:38",
    "text": "may think otherwise if this gets adopted I would maybe suggest that it\u0027s an actually in update to the Dena Dena SEC operational practices document because I think it\u0027s really for scope of that RFC yeah welcome I think course we should up the work and combining might make sense another thing is that some of the stuff in the errors document might be good for the well extended error stuff to add to add to their maybe just for explanation or maybe split extend error in an in a sex specific section but that\u0027s so one quarry with no hats so I like this document but who do we think the actual audiences I mean we know not to do this most people in the IETF I suspect don\u0027t know not to do this but users don\u0027t really read RFC\u0027s so I guess I think we should do it but I hear you I think there\u0027s still a lot of people outside of the ITF obviously you know that you know researching these things people in the press policymakers you know you name it lots of people claim they were cursors for this um this is a little question of out which I don\u0027t expect your user to read LFC but I expect the RFC to be read by people while not here but close then it will produce documents that will be read downstream dn\u0027t until we reach yo user so the goal of the IETF in my opinion is not to try to explain things to ordinary users we don\u0027t it\u0027s not our way of competency but to produce our sensitive documents that could be used by people what better writers than we are Tim ocinski actually I think the audience for this would be like network operation type folks who know DNS but aren\u0027t who aren\u0027t obsessed about it like we are and so they have to sort of understand some of these how to use sort of triage situations I think that\u0027s really the IC is the audience for this my pound said again yeah the same sort of thing that yeah a lot of the audience for this is you know reddit Fred\u0027s about doing dumb things with your DNS because a problem occurred you know like that kind of stuff yeah and yeah I agree the I think these are completely in scope for DNS off and yeah we should work on it cool unique i rebus most of what was said about outreach I\u0027m not completely convinced that an RFC coming out of the IDF is reaching the right audience or instructing those who should reach the right audience and I wonder what the solution is except "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:38",
    "text": "from that it tells the user to suffer through it although I\u0027m looking forward to seeing a recommendation coming out of this regarding TTLs which obviously need to be short to mitigate errors and then I know that next of the agenda or next next on the agenda there\u0027s a document and this is going to be an interesting discussion one remark about the sort of back pressure if you will to signing problems for you know validation fails I mean it would be nice for more pressure to go back on the signing practices so if the authoritative zones that sort of aren\u0027t getting heat for that now that\u0027s the only thing that will help improve you know their operational practices right now they don\u0027t get any of that pressure really Paul Hawken who jumped in the line to answer Peters question how do we get things better known there is the IETF blog which is run by I saw who has when they did a blog piece on the DNS terminology document I all of a sudden got a bunch of queries from random like tech press and such like that about it so so that\u0027s one but the other one is is that like just any time one person catches one of these RFC\u0027s and says hey I noticed this important thing lots of other people follow on so for any of people saying oh is it worth it for us to do it if we do it with just even a little bit of push afterwards yes it is okay thanks Joe Apple epi our year years ago we wrote a document called help help I\u0027m being attacked by President Ayana dog which for which very similar which was about people who didn\u0027t understand their firewall logs it thought they were being attacked with DNS responses for queries they had sent and which also following the logic that\u0027s been expressed here could have seemed like a ridiculous thing to bother writing because who would bother if they knew to look for IRC but it turns out for lots of people that was useful and I\u0027ve had feedback from lots of people that said when I tried to explain to someone that this wasn\u0027t a problem and they told me I was an idiot that I don\u0027t know about firewalls because they work in the IT department I showed them this RFC and it made a difference so I think we don\u0027t necessarily have to expect that people who need this information are going to read it but they\u0027re going to be pointed towards if it\u0027s got an RFC number it means something British what rexy\u0027s ethnic in short I support the draft because reason stated before me and the thing is that when I was doing technical accommodation and Red Hat for example we wanted to explain to people don\u0027t do stupid things like inventing your own TLD but there is no RFC we can reference right so we were getting complaints Bob there is no standard forbidding the this and that and blah blah blah so I have seen like that would be super useful the New York employed by the internet society but not speaking for them the two points actually one is I I like these kind of drafts because to the point that was made when I was doing work earlier seven years ago with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:39",
    "text": "Internet Society focused on I yeah i pv 60 and a second things is great to be able to refer to some of these operational guidance documents because they they were from the ITF they were pieces that we could go and point to they could be found in different places so i I applaud that type of thing I would also just state Dave tail just say that is the IETF blog and to collect Paul Hoffman that is actually run by ITF folks it\u0027s not actually run by I sock so ITF it is believe me sorry timber since I\u0027ll just close this all off where once you once we have this where you should be talking about this as nanog in place we should be at Nana explaining this is why you can\u0027t have nice things sort of thing so that\u0027s the audience for this type of draft and yes we should adopt this stuff as a question what I\u0027m hearing is that the idea would be that the audience for this is the the customer relations departments at operations shops and so on in order to write user accessible documentation and reporters and waters and reddit users do you have strong feelings about whether to try to combine them into one banker anybody with strong feelings about that because I\u0027m trying to fill him on a simpler but well I\u0027m trying to form what we\u0027re asking Jason to do Dan York again same I think the one point here that I was also made was we should probably have a little think about some of all of the guidance the operational guidance parts here because you know to the comment those made about is this updating the current operational practices I know that Daniel Mageau at Dulles and I also have the DNS SEC validator requirements which we were discussing just yesterday about how it\u0027s really more operational requirements for people running DNS or recursive resolvers and pieces like that rather than really requirements as it was stated originally so there\u0027s probably a couple of different things we should think about as far as it because at the end of day you want a document well there\u0027s two things you want you want a simple document you could point somebody to when you\u0027re getting somebody flaming you on this or whatever you just wanna be able say hey look go do this but at the same time you also don\u0027t want five of those you want a something that\u0027s that\u0027s that you can give to a network operator and say here\u0027s the best practices for how you should be running DNS sex stuff right now you know that type of thing so I just I guess I\u0027d say their chairs I think there\u0027s some we need to think about a couple these different drafts that are in the hopper and how they could all work together in what way and Suzanne just to go back to your one question about you know separator together the don\u0027ts which resolvers one felt a little bit more sort of atomic and sort of easily you know compartmentalized if you will but ultimately they can be anyone doesn\u0027t matter mattias making IC and when it comes to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:40",
    "text": "the question where it should be one document I would prefer to be one document for the two reasons that they are so intertwined yeah and you want the document that people want to point to and it\u0027s easier to point to one thing than to two things greater good fine okay thank you any comments so I think we go forward for one document and then call us for adoption on the mailing list or maybe with the next meeting yes thank you okay last presentation my Stanislav not gonna see hi I\u0027m Raja Utica and Patrick is the co-author of this document and to start with at the real report briefly about our efforts during high cotton earlier this week thanks so current site of things is that during the hackathon we developed little the ink model which allows you to specify slave zone and IP address of the master and using this you can easily add or delete or modify slave zone on not DNS and poverty and s which are two implementations with it it seems that the idea works pretty well the implementation well it\u0027s new stuff for us so it took them some while to get used to it but it seems to work so this draft is like the basic building block which doesn\u0027t do anything by itself but the idea here is to start with something really small define like the basic building blocks and then continue on this and build on this and create like more complicated stuff like configuring slave zones and and so on and so on and so on so with this I will let large I\u0027ll explain rest because he is the yonk expert okay so this is a summary slide for for this draft the substance of the of this graft is basically a yang module that defines types corresponding to these two IANA registries the Annis class DNS class and our types and since the previous revision revision there have been no changes whatsoever to the yang module itself you only add it like two paragraphs explaining Modi tails above the context context and use cases in short the idea is really at this moment to work on the translation of these tool and other relevant "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:42",
    "text": "Ayana and other maybe registries and provide this as really a building block for further data modeling work in in the Eng hopefully this is relatively straightforward job and hopefully uncontroversial but maybe I am too naive here anyway there have been two issues raised in the mailing list related to the previous revision one is the relationship between the yang module and the INR register itself can they get out of sync or cannot and the other issue that took me by surprise was that the semantics of deprecated differs in different places I will talk about both issues in more detail in a minute so just to show you what that yang types are that correspond to these two ayah now register YZ for each registry we have actually two data types first is just an enumeration of the mnemonic names of the registry entries and the other data type shown at the bottom part of the slide they permit to use both the mnemonic name and the numeric representation of that item so depending on the circumstances either of these data types can be used now the first issue there have been a comment in the mailing list that maybe some things in the IANA registry are not correct for example some of the of the entries not experimental and should be moved to obsolete and there was an opinion that perhaps we can just fix it in in the yang module independently of the IANA registry and this would serve the data modeling purposes but in fact we do not recommend doing so because this draft is based on the assumption that after this working group publishes this initial revision then the rest all the updates from that point will be handled exclusively by INR so all changes to the registry will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:42",
    "text": "immediately met to some changes in in the yang module and the ionic considerations section also contains quite detailed instructions about how this can be done so as soon as we try to fix the yang module independently probably this process will break and I think it\u0027s it\u0027s quite a benefit for the working group if as soon as this draft is published no further work is needed for the forthcoming updates so of course I don\u0027t know if you have any opinion about that I think that in short if the I know register is broken it has to be fixed in the I now register and this will be then automatically mapped to the angle and that would be it no comments on that so the next issue that\u0027s an interesting one it\u0027s the meaning of deprecated there is now an an RFC 8126 that among other things also defined the meaning of obsolete and applicated so in particle deprecated means that the use is not recommended whereas the yang specification says that you can read it that deprecated permits new implementations in order to foster interoperability implementations so what it means that let\u0027s say cryptographic algorithm gets compromised so this algorithm will become deprecated in the IANA registry but implementers of the yang module will happily continue implementing this algorithm in order to foster interoperability so I think this is not really a good thing to do and I have actually raised this issue in the net motor working group and the answer was that this definition of deprecated it has been with us since the cilenti time it was basically literally copied from from some ancient documents but I guess this has to be addressed and somehow resolved I would of course prefer the definition that\u0027s in in RFC 8126 for for IANA registry but this probably takes some times then my name is Andrew Sullivan and I am employed by somebody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:42",
    "text": "but I don\u0027t speak for them the the for my previous sins I have opinions about INR registries now and I the first thing that I would say on your first on your first question was about whether you know you should fix these things independent of of the of the INR registry really a lot please don\u0027t do that I mean it\u0027s the worst idea I\u0027ve ever heard is to get into sync with that because the whole point of the registry is that it\u0027s supposed to be authoritative so you would be creating a young model that would just drift from that right it\u0027s a terrible idea so I completely agree with your idea there but the second thing that I would say and that\u0027s the reason I got up is this issue number two because look the important thing about this in in the IANA registries is that if it were true that a type were no longer in use in the strict meaning of obsolete here then in the yang sense of of deprecated the obsolete definition but in order to foster interoperability with older things that sort of entails that you\u0027re going to run into these things from time to time right and so the idea is that in fact actually the thing isn\u0027t obsolete in this trick technical sense of no longer being in use because you ran into it so by definition the thing exists somehow therefore the the nice thing about this is that you could you could say that for the practical purposes of this document everything that is marked as obsolete is treated as deprecated everything that is everything that is in the in the registry and until this is fixed by you know by net mod for the purposes of of the current version you could just say that everything that is marked is obsolete in the registry is treated as deprecated on the theory that if it were really obsolete you\u0027re never going to run into it anyway so you don\u0027t have to care okay so do propose because currently in the document we have that if something is obsolete in the I know history it will be Matt to be obsolete status in any aang and if it is deprecated then it will be mapped to the Prickett it take us in any n so you propose to use obsolete for for both know what I\u0027m suggesting actually is you can leave the text as it is and then you could put a sentence that just said and by the way we recognize that in yang these two things wind up doing the same thing but if it were truly obsolete it won\u0027t matter you\u0027re never going to run into a two who cares there\u0027s just a sort of practical to the matter you don\u0027t have to care about it alright thanks thank you okay and that\u0027s all any more comments you\u0027d like any comments questions you would like to ask for adoption hopefully as soon as fear is all these two issues there shouldn\u0027t be much much work to do yeah um it looked to me when I read the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:44",
    "text": "draft like that was relatively straightforward to review the the data type specific the data type characteristics specifically but it\u0027s not entirely clear as kind of as Andrew was pointing out that the expertise for the these issues that you need is is in this room so where are you getting this review to net mod or where else has it been considered of course this draft is going to be reviewed by one of the yang doctors okay so we have this problem all the time so either their people are not experts fileting or people are not experts for the particle it domain like the dns operations year so we have to work well and we appreciate talking to the DNS people as well as the net want people about how to make sure this is this is correct and useful I\u0027m working for a company where some DNS expertise is expected I think Wes is next Wes Parker I say so RFC 61 60 8 was written quite a while ago that involved a lot of people working together to define requirements for managing DNS software and is this so I guess one of my questions is to do go and review that for really things this is a good step toward being able to do that or is this specifically just for are you just really trying to keep it today I Anna specific types cuz there\u0027s other stuff in there that that might be worth looking at like teasing keys whose would be other type that would be actually helpful to have well given the experiences we gain from developing a mode used in the routing area we are aware that this can be a pretty complicated process and the BRC you mentioned show that and then the work I think it was called DNS by John and Sarah Dickinson basically was also some kind of drought that ended up basically without being being adopted so this can really be a difficult process but as I said for us the immediate goal is to translate these analogous trees and motivate for the work on this we ourselves will be doing some work in this other people may have different ideas but I guess beefs the mapping of the registries is used so just for everybody and everybody needs it so why not if I know do it first and then let\u0027s you going to happen yeah I liked what you said in the beginning that you were really just defining the types that could be used in other places and I thought that that\u0027s highly helpful I know and the reason I went to go look in 61 68 was what other types you know might be missing that that\u0027s required by that document and I didn\u0027t do an extensive search but you know teasing Keys for example came up this one that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:46",
    "text": "that I know is missing Thanks Thanks thank you yeah we know that there are order open source developers working on young it\u0027s called and the chair\u0027s thinks think this is a candidate for adoption so if there\u0027s no know here in the room we will move it to the mailing list somewhere next week or the week after yeah okay thank you thank you we are in the rare position of having a few minutes left if there\u0027s any other business we\u0027ll give you a few minutes of open mic rather than try to drag someone up here that wasn\u0027t prepared until Friday so any other business of Stephen Farrell is in the room okay I know okay then we will give you a 10-minute head start on getting to the cookies thank you [Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] "
  }
]