[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:03",
    "text": "Still looking for a notetaker if anybody's willing to volunteer. Man. The Could we have one more man? Get started. Okay. Welcome to the DHCP Working Group. Meeting everybody. This is Wednesday at 1 o'clock, so good afternoon. A couple of things. Here's the note well. For those of you who have not seen it this week, here it is. Your note you're participating in the IPF. You do not know what this is or haven't read this before, please go Read this. It has a lot about IPR and other things. Before we begin, We need a notetaker. I can't start this meeting until somebody volunteers for this position. Anyone? I'll do what I can. Thanks. Thanks, Brandon."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "Yeah. I did start the notes. I just dropped the agenda in there, Bernie. So it Hopefully, people can just fill in the gaps And, yes, anyone who has it open, if you have thoughts, please group editing is always a good idea. Okay. So on that note, you've heard from one that you've heard from both of the co chair this. I'm Tim Winters. Bernie's remote. Hey, Bernie. Okay. Here's the agenda for today. Anyone want to agenda bash this, it usual stuff. Gonna start with the chair slides, then, 8415, self generated ipv6addresses than mobile subscriptions and a layer to Relay agents in cellular front hauls. Only have an hour, so I am gonna try to keep people mostly on time, if possible. Okay. I'll go over these So the there's 2 documents currently that are working group documents. And they're both presenting today. So that's always good news. You're gonna hear more about those. Just wanted to note that the SR 6 locator draft that was lived here for a while that we suggested spring intake. They actually adopted it. They're doing work on it. So if you're really into that, go follow that working group they're gonna CC us when they go to last call and do all the right things that we want group who's doing DHCP Options to to handle it on their side that they wanna use it then we can look for the DHCP messages. In there, in there, in there, in there, in there, I always like to stick a slide in here of all the related documents that have things going on. 2 of them have presentations here. Today, so that's always good. So there's just some related DHCP documents. Links there. And I think we're off to the first presentation."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Okay. I think this one's actually gonna be the shortest one we've done on this. Because Where we're at is and and any, feel free to say anything you wanna say here. Bernie, actually, do you wanna talk to this slide? Be better if you do Okay. Well, I mean, the, you know, we've been working on this update to, the DHCP 6 standard. Over the past, several working groups, and we've you know, made fairly minor changes, and, you know, it's important that we advance this to full standard. At least that's been a goal for the working group for for quite a while. Next slide. So the latest public version just included a few additional items. We, made a reference to not releasing any, delegated prefixes prematurely, I. E. Before all of the, lifetimes that might have been advertised to downstream clients have have passed so that the the the you know, if you're releasing a prefix, you know, or the device knows that nobody else is making use of any of those. Delegate, you know, sub delegated prefixes or and or addresses within that prefix. And it that was just a a, like, a one or so paragraph change plus a few minor little corrections as well as the as the, you know, in the 2 version, there was the implementation status report that was added and at least, you know, we we asked Eric, if that implementation status report was sufficient and he believes that it it should be for the ISG. So, this is now in working group last call."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "And we really would like people to carefully review it. Again, the the changes from you know, the the 8415 RC are fairly minor. I mean, if you do a diff between the current draft in the the RC, there are a lot of little things that come up, but most of them are formatting stuff because of the way the the 2 tools, you know, the one that generates the RFC and the one that is the the XML to RFC generator produces slightly different text in some cases formatting. And so that's that's basically the only the major differences. Except for our small changes to text and removing some of the texts such as, you know, for the IATA support has been deprecated as well as the, the the, server unicast capabilities, So the client will always multicast now. So please review give us comments because we hope to send this off to the ISG. Yep. Thanks, Bernie. Any any questions for Bernie? Okay. Thanks everybody. Alright. Jen, I think you're at look. Yeah. Europe. Queue. Hello. It's me again. Talking about self registering Slack addresses VADH PB6. Since last time,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "we actually moved from 00 to 5 we went through the last call. So please don't say that ATF is very slow. We can move fast if you want. So Zimane, Like, I think it will probably be the biggest issue raised during the last call. The the reason why we're actually talking about this draft now, is will it concern was raised about excessive multicots? Because initially, the draft was stuck at suggesting that the client just there transmits the packet until it's easier to get acknowledgement from the server or just do an exponential because services If there is no one listening, it will be few budgets, so in new version, we changed it. So now the network infrastructure will give the client an explicit signal if the registration mechanism is supported. And, obviously, if it's not supported as a client, which job is doing this. Also, the problem, another change I'd like to mention is the change which was already in the text and the last 8 years. But I don't think we Like, if talking about No. It was not there. Sorry. So it was introduced before the last call. We slightly changed the registration retransmission and refresh logic to make sure is it set up where always has a up to date information about addresses. I'll talk about it in the But first, yeah, what changed in terms of the registration support? So what we did that suggested that we usual information request message initially Like, in send registration, first message inside the information request and then fall back to already propose recognism. This sounds like kind of strange because we would I've had 2 different ways of signal and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "registration. So what as a draft suggests to you now it that before, starting any registration the client sends an information request message. The standard thing for stateless. And into an option request option, it will include nu, option, which is like 0 lengths, bullion option. Called address registration enable. Basically asking, they said, where do you support this stuff? And that has done the confirmation request that sends from link local source address to all servers multicast So nothing new here. Right? And, obviously, if the server supports that stop, which will respond and it will be an explicit signal for a client that it can start saying the registration. And it's draft always been saying registration a sense from address being So we're kind of using the standard mechanism to get the signal So idea is, yeah, so the client must not start sending any registration requests until it explicitly receives other reg enabled. Obviously, it will periodically resend information request based on the time we're proposed by the server. Which means the client will be able to detect the changes in the registration support. So, obviously, if no server supports the mechanics, no response, no excessive multi cost. No is the client just shut up. If all server supports the mechanism, client keeps continue registering. As soon as it gets the first, a reply. It might be a temporary situation when some servers on the network supports this and some not, for example, wait. It might be misconfiguration, or it might be in Kremlin Right? I'm obviously not going to add this to the old servers at the same time. Well, in this case, what draft says, as long as you get the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "you sent a a information request message, as long as at least one reply contains Agreg enable option. It means that there is someone on the link who can listen to you and then clients start saying good. If after when it's sends information requests next time after a while. Right? If it does not receive any responses, well, it means that maybe all servers disappear. Right? So it will not send anything until it gets the positive, signal. So, hopefully, that's the best way of reduce the noise while still maintaining ability. So, basically, yeah, we sing we're sending a single multicast packet. I assume there is no packet loss. Right? And in one RTT, you get in a clear signal if there is a the network and if it's willing to support. So, basically, it's a simple stateless, DHCP when you're basically exchanging information requests and reply. So I think Bernie suggests that using the whole put the whole registration and information into information requests. So we don't So we do not invent any new messages. Why we still prefer to do what does now because I looked at 8415, it is actually must contain a lot of other stuff. Right? So you cannot just send information, request with minimal things. Right? We need to put a lot of other things. Also, to ensure resident information registration information is not spoofed. We'd like to send information request the other has been registered, which means we start sending information requests from global sources and it's absolutely unclear what's the network infrastructure might"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "do about that. Some devices might be Also, again, because information requests must contain a lot of other options, And the host will probably, would have many addresses. Right? We basically start sending a lot of unnecessary things on the network. Also, again, with multiple addresses, we might potentially hit rate limiting. And, also, if I read 4j815, write, the registration re information request shall be resent based on the timers provided by the server I mean, influx RT, Alright. And it's not necessary the logic we want to use for refresh and the registration. We might refresh the registration more often or less often actually. So I don't know what the group thinks about the current version. Yeah, please give us feedback. I think we sent it on the list. Refresh and registration. I would please read the draft. It basically it might look a bit like sophisticated. But the idea is we want this network when the server always knows that if the particular address is being used, I mean, Right? So we don't want the network to believe that address is not valid while the host is still using So host shall refers the registration as long as addresses and use. We initially, the draft was saying I just sent it, like, when 80% of your life time, expires and refresh it. After 80%. But it's actually tricky because the host might receive an array, which will increase or decrease lifetime of the particular address. Right? So what we propose is when host configures an address, it does schedules the next refresh to be sent at like, 80% of the lifetime in the future."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "But every time it gets an array which changes the lifetime for some significant amount of time, not just few milliseconds or few seconds. Right? Then the first looks now shall I send it earlier or shall I send it later? Well, how what's the new timer tells me. Right? And if there is a refresh schedule and the URI actually moves and sooner, then it will send it sooner. Which basically means if I sent you an initial lifetime of, like, 3 weeks, And now I'm telling your lifetime is actually 5 minutes, Alright. We will update the server. If there is no refresh schedule, when the, already received then the host will just schedule a new refresh. So, basically, and if there is no references received from now on, the host will just use the address, refresh it, when it expires and then it just slowly dies. We also allow clients when it follows adoption, just if if the client wakes up to update in one address or and found out that I'm gonna send another update in, like, 60 seconds. I'm not going to sleep. I'll just update everything. Just to save the battery. We actually spend some time drawing different potential scenarios and arrays and what's gonna happen with a lifetime and refresh. Obviously do not want to refresh to be sent every time you get an array. Because you might get a risk quite often, I know that My home router, one of them, once tried to send me a raise every 2 seconds, So, obviously, it's not a desirable outcome for Sydian, registration they're fresh every time. So I know that the current text has some things which needs to be cleaned up as learning kindly point it out here. I missed out the option name and the zed behavior about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "reassing and information requests and what to do with inconsistent configuration needs to be erased. I we also saw IANA review. But besides the I'm curious what does the group think? More comments suggestions or maybe another last call? Because I think the graph is rather stable and we address primary concern raised during the last call. Anyone have any comments before we talk about the last call part of it, Eric Veng, the responsibility for DHT. I would prefer to do another booking group last call in only 2 weeks. No. No. No. I'm saying, like, not enough. Obviously, it's what they're asking you. Enough the working group last call here on the update. The protocol is changing in a good way. No. No. No. No. I'm not saying calls the previous lost call down. Now, I'm asking we will probably submit another version by Zendoz a week to address existing and maybe what people tell us now. And, yeah, I I'm asking for another working group last call on the 5 of those things. Oh, in agreement. Yeah. If think we all agree. I I think we can do that next week. We'll wait for anything that you guys get this week. Do any feedback. Bernie, does that work for you? Yep. Yeah. The only other comment that I would have. And it's just a clarification is if you go back to slide 4, per second yeah, they were You know, this if some server support the mechanism, right, is is a is kind of an interesting thing because, you know, it says, well, you know, it it if if if Most clients probably when they get one information request are going to whatever first one they get, is the one that probably gonna accept. They're not gonna know, process all the info all the replies they may get to an information request. So in this kind of incremental thing, it'll probably be random as to what whether clients will send or will send. Because you know, depend on the first information request reply that they get."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "I mean, I'm not sure that that's a problem because I think we you know, that's that's it really makes no sense to have 2 servers or multiple servers configured differently. And it would just be considered a you know, network misconfiguration. So you know, it is something that is you know, you really have to have all the servers configured the same way. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. Because I actually rare what I looked in, 80 for 15, and I was sure, yeah, what's happened if you get different answers. I don't think he has a RFC actually clarifies it. So I was kind of as humans that maybe client can get what information quest without an option and just do nothing, then get that information enable option in the next response from another server and decide. Oh, now I can do something. Yeah. But I guess we could consider inconsistent response as a transition say, okay, until you get all your servers, giving you the consistent answer, you might get an consistent result in Right. Correct. So I guess it's, I guess, it's unavoidable in general, right, with any other DHCP parameters, right, if you get in inconsistent answers. Yeah. Right. So nothing new here. I'm not sure, like, particularly bad compared to what's happening Okay. Yeah. I will clarify the tips. Thank you very much. Tim has a comment. Let's see. 8, 10. So I Tim Chiang. I think this is fine as it is. It's obviously been through working group asked call my question is with the HPPDs, the host, will presume a host would still have a address or addresses on, say, the wifi interface if this was a my laptop on the Canvas network. And it could use this what about the host that I'm tethering to or the VMs insight might those use this? And if so, what's the responsibility on the host then does that have to be gets me relay or How do you how do you see this working in in that environment or is that out of scope complete complete"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Well, I I would think. I I guess it depends how you runs the network. Right? Because I guess if you use Bridjund, for example, Right? And you try to breach the 360 for behind. Which, like, if you do phone with slash 64 and you connect Chrome OS to the as a test drive devices, right, you will get 64 is a bridge. Right? Then I guess, all devices, they don't know how they connected. Right? They get Slack addresses, Oh, whereas I can say something, Right. Okay. Good. Oh, no. I really like that. Yeah. wondering how this Like, that one guy the host model. I'm just with that because Yeah. So, like, you basically, if I But if I understand you correctly, the host which is asking for PD might need to act as a relay. Yes. Right? Yeah. I'd assume so. You you could do that. Like, I I guess I that functionality presumably don't know. Well, I guess it's It needs in some way. It's not Yeah. I I guess it might be addition to the host, which is doing that they might want to act as a a relays, yeah, for, this thing. I don't know. Maybe it could be added. Strictly speaking from tracking perspective, right, accountability active. We already have a compatibility because the DB server knows that this client got that slash 64. And whatever is behind it, might because the idea is of PD per host is that we have something which looks like a host for the network. Right? And what it does internally, not my problem. It might be virtual system. It might be multiple. My address for application might be physical devices connected. Right? A network network administrator is do not want to know what it is. Right? They want to think it's a host Yeah. So maybe it's not like, yeah. I guess host might relate or might just yeah, just use reliability server to log that slash 64 allocated to you. It's your stability and what exactly I don't know. Like, those things would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "I'm not sure if you need to clarify it here, though. Right? I'm not, like, I'm not sure what you I can Yes. I'm sorry. I'll be with your give my thoughts. So, I think So there is an attraction for sure in the case where I think I think it was Martin that brought this up on this. He said, Okay. Maybe you have a PD to your host, but then if I wanna put something in DNS or I wanna reach you, where are you? And, you know, for that, we either, you know, wear that come up with some you know, predictable ID like colon, colon, 1, or more likely we do something like this. Right? So, you know, Eric Nygren mentioned perhaps the idea instead of having the, network, provide you with a suggested ID that they could sort of provision it, whatever. But, yeah, regardless, like, the interaction here would be I I think that the first help host, which is which is getting the PD would probably want to, you know, advertise their address in via this mechanism to the network. The hosts behind it I think sort of more to Jen's point, you could sort of, you know, pass this up or proxy it or whatever. But in general, I feel that, like, the the the the mechanism, the the metal of PD to the host is, you know, From a accountability perspective, that's your 64. That's your fault. Right? You know, that's forensically. This is for forensics, primarily. And, you know, as long as I can blame one device for this as a network operator, I think think it's fine. So we don't necessarily need to do a sort of stuff like nested or relayed I actually think that if you're that, like, testament devices start in doing this and your host what is this due ID? I have no idea who you are. Right? I never even gave you anything. a, like, some virtual system on on your laptop. Right? So I think it's a very good point, but I'm I'm just not sure that this draft is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the right place to do this. Right? Or maybe I don't know. We would we would minimally have to update the text that says, you know, the server must drop it if it's not appropriate for the link. Right? So you know, for example, we could say if the server knows that that prefix has been delegated to that DOD or MAC address and, you know, thick, thick, thick, It could get tricky. Right? Yeah. It does say, server verifies that it's appropriate for the link. I don't think appropriateness was the link. It's clearly redefined assumptions the server site. Right? It's defined in some RFC, though. I think that is, yeah, like, Yeah. But I yeah. I'll like, maybe, yeah, maybe we shall, yeah, say something about yet for the, like, delegation host candle But, yeah, again, I'm I'm not sure where. Somewhere definitely. Don't know where. I seem to remember the the day speed the the PD per HPPD for the host draft says that the host page is kind of out of scope of that draft. So it's not something for that, so I suppose. And it's not something for here, but it It's just nice to have some understanding of what that model Yeah. Yeah. Uh-uh. I agree. Yeah. So I think that the I think we can sort of just tweak the text that says appropriate for the link. And say maybe because in practice, if the server has assigned the prefix to that DUAD and sees that DOD come back and say, Hey. I've got this address, it could, like, put 22 together. So maybe we just tweak that text example, we say, you know, if it knows it's appropriate for the link as according to RFC, blah blah blah. Forget which one or has, you know, knowledge that this is other example, contain it or prefix that it has delegated, then you know, anyway, so maybe I'm not I think you probably wanna leave it open. For this, you don't wanna close it, but I doubt you'd wanna specify I don't think we're gonna have enough reps. Via other means. Yeah. We can see. I I think we can be vague enough. And if we wanna define it later, we should As for relaying it, I'm not sure. I mean, I definitely would like to have you know, Android has this function where if you tether some Android devices say, well, if you tether, you can get the list of host names of the devices are connected"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:04",
    "text": "and that only works for an IP before. And so we we copy the MAC address from before to neighbor cache entry and we match it up, but it would be nice to do this as well on on on the service side for Android. I actually think that the idea is on the network side, the server all regionals who is using those address what physical devices using them. Right? Clients behind that slash 64. It has no idea if it's real slash 64 in the network or it's a test It might sense this, but I do not think hosts should relate because it will confuse the different that those new ideas never been seen. So maybe the host should just is it drops them or logs them locally if it wants, but definitely, I don't think that Elaine is old idea But Yeah. Okay. Awesome. Right on time. Perfect. Thanks, guys. We'll do a working group last call on that next week. Wrap up anything you guys have this week. It's think we're doing mobile subscription. Hi. Good morning. Can you me. Yep. We can hear you just fine. I hit this. This is set up on. Of the Comcast. So today, we wanted to present our proposal to enhanced DHCP to include a new option to share mobile subscription info. We can move forward or anything. So this is It's not so common today for everyone, but, for someone like us, and maybe a few other engineers where the same operator provides access through both cellular and Wi Fi specifically Wi Fi as a managed Wi Fi network, there is there is it's scenarios where users and subscribers move between wifi and cellular. Network. And and and uniquely authenticate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "the Wi Fi network with PSK. So this is like a private Wi Fi network, but, managed through the operator by the operator. So we there is a need to get the mobile subscription info associated with the use, so we can provide continuity, like, we can make sure the IP address is mention session, continue to use retained, and we also can provide enhanced experience based on their subscription and entitlement. So proposal is to define a new option, we call it as mobile sub subscription info, mobile sub info. And and, So this the network that supports it the the UAE that supports it will advertise that that that UE supports this option. And then the network that supports this functionality will will send a URI back in this option. The UEDPS URI and the UEE can validate this URI is authorized with the carrier config on the mobile u e, and then the u e can start the exchange process this. Through the HTTPS. So the actual exchange of that mobile subscription info. Is is through the HTTPS. URI served through the DCP. Option or a or an RIA option. Next. Slide so this is how it works. So we moved from cellular to Wi Fi. It authenticates with the PSK, key. And then, in in the ipv4enrollment, we will use the we can use either the V6 or the router advertisement. So this was inspired by the the CAPPY portal."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "RFC. So the option similar this is similar to the option 104 which was defined in RFC 8910. It's So this is how we envision this to work. In an IP before enrollment. So the client, once it's once it associates to the Wi Fi network in the DHCP, request, it will include the mobile Sabine Pro option as one of the supported options. And then the server that supports it, will send the mobile subinfo in the act. The act the the, then then the, client can decide if it can support this or not, if we can exchange the Sabine for or not, based on a preconfigured, URI in the carrier config. And if the URI matches, then, and then the UAE knows this belongs to the same network. Then then that you can, initiate the exchange. So the proposal is that through HTTPS, the UV can do Ypsum, Ypsaka, so so only the u e can validate the network and the network can validate the u e both. EPIC is pretty standard. For authentication. Can go to the next one. So on the network side, the DHCP server should be enhanced to support this new option. And it will include the URI, in the DCPR. Now it can include the you the SIP server can always send this the UE can ignore it. If if the E rate does not support this. In the ipv6, Well, so we we we envisioned that the UE will include this option as a supported option in the solicit And then and then the disk, the server can reply"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "yeah, include the URI in the reply message. If the if the UE supports ECP V Six. If it's not, Then the then we will use the RA ipv6 RIA to the network will use the ipv6 RIA to broadcast the support, but it'll also include the URI in the RA. Option. Yep. Nothing? Think we covered this. And this is the RA option in cases where, yeah, yep, that's gonna be good. Keep going. Yep. We can hear you. So there are some considerations. So there is One is like multiple SIMs. So so this is the dual SIM scenario. So what our proposal is the client or the UAE will use the default data subscription SIM for this, sharing the subscription info. And then, a network that supports this in b44andb6 bb we we should use the same URI. We proposed to use the same URI for consistency. I think that's it. Okay. You got some people lined up to talk to you. Lorenzo Queenie. So I have a couple of questions. So first of all, how would how would a host know when to send this? Right? So let's say that you're, you know, this is, like, I think from Comcast, right, or Xfinity. Let's say see I have a Xfinity subscriber right on the mobile side, when I connect to Starbucks, am I gonna send this and So first of all, is Starbucks gonna know that I'm you know, that I do this. And then Second of all is, like, if I get the URI, I guess, you know, Did I like the the the the them, the the the mobile carrier track the the device or not?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "So so first to answer Question, how does the host know that it has to send the info. So, the the URI that's advertised by the network we we we proposed that it be configured in the in the mobile carrier. Config so the UN knows that dotdot this wifi network belongs to the same wireless network. So it can validate it. And only if it matches, then it can send the start exchanging the subscription info. So you would want to always ask for this then. Right. Okay. And the other question is, And sort of a while ago, we we did a bunch of work in interior for for provisioning domains. Right? And it, it, it it sport me the sort of the authors and the folks working on that effort. Ask themselves the question. What what should go into things like DHCP 6 and RA and what should go into things like the provisioning domain. And We kind of, you know, the the the folks involved at the time concluded that the things that needed to go into into HBV 6 and RA were, like, things that were essential to bootstrapping and things that could be sort of that it was okay to defer a little bit later, would be, would instead were instead better in the, in the PPD information. Now the thing that strikes me about this is that this you already have an dependency on an HTTPS URI. So it feels like this should just go into the PDVD information. Just put it there. So, Yeah. Yeah. Got it. So, Eric, no head. And thanks, Lorenzo, you're asking the question I was supposed to ask especially on the PVD and the privacy aspect, now the only remaining questions I have why not doing this on the wifi layer 2 in the beacon and soon? Because you can advertise a lot of things in there to dot11."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "So that that's something we I mean, That's not my expertise. Delay of 1, So we we really have not considered it. But, yeah, if if we are open to considering that, if does If you're welcome, if I check a presentation done by a commercial company or commercial alliance called Open Roaming in Madin Asla, previous IITF. They were doing something very, very similar. Okay. And don't come to get too many options into the areas. Friend, Eric, would get to hot at that You you will find some code in Android that enables disabled DB6 options based on issue 4 options based on specific information elements in the beacon And so there's there's a lot of precedent for what Eric was saying. So you could put this in the beacon. And and then you Hi, Pedro Zatroga from IAC. I'm the ITP newbie. So sorry if I'm talking nonsense. I just have a one small comment I've read the draft. And about the client behavior, 2.1. There is it looks like it's very specific about, before client, but it is missing the V Six case. So I think it would be nice to just add it like, in case of before. Thanks. Okay. Okay. Thank you. David Lundparter. I'm just converting some of the previous commands into the bureaucratic equivalent your draft does not currently have a privacy consideration section. If I'm looking at the right version, you really need a privacy consideration section in your draft. To update that. So I I I can't see how I can add myself to the queue. So to Go ahead, Bernie. I can hear you. Okay. But you know, one of the big questions is where should this work be done? Right? And this may be something, you know, we we can discuss more with error, but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "you know, in in a lot of ways, this is a fairly simple option in terms of DHCP. Right? It's just an Yes. Classic data option, send it in the ORO or primary request list and the server sends it it's gotta configure, So the the and, you know, there may be more issues with things like the routing advertisement and stuff like that. So I'm not sure, you know, for for for the TC working group. This doesn't seem like it needs to be done here. And so you know, should this be done in 6 man or or where? Is an open discussion that I think we need to have with with, Eric and and, you know, to say where where does this land? I had similar thoughts, Bernie. You read my mind. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Okay. Last presentation. And I'm, Think that one? Hello, Claudia. Ericsson, and, here, I'm talking about something that may be interesting for you. It is the front haul network. This is the front of network and this it has been defined in the scope of open run it will be applied. It applies to the 50th generation and generation of the mobile network. And, it is based on protocols being defined by the secret. Yeah, Cyprus is a working group that works on this low level protocol that are not really based on, like, this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:04",
    "text": "the problem that comes with this type of network actually is that, in order to configure properly the device in the left part there are the transceeper the note that is controlling them that here in this slide is called BB. That is baseband. Needs to know on how they are to connected from a topology perspective. So in order to Probably set up rtxone. That it no needs to know that it is collected on the port 1 of the first layer to speech, and that is connected on port 1 on the switch number X Three so that it can properly send the configuration data. This works pretty well with the DHCP because the HTTP 6 has layered to relay agent or the lightweight play agent that for for for properly forwards the information to the server. So the server knows exactly all the topology of for the frontal net. 4. But, unfortunately, a number of years ago the layer to relay agent for DHCP before or that the the HCP, the legacy, the HCP has not been convert it into an RFC. So this, frontal network configuration works pretty well in, ipv6 but not on ipv4. It specifically, in the SAP before, we don't have, support for the hierarchy. On the related agent. So only one radio can be, part of, DACP request. It's does not been decided which of the attribute"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "can carry the information for the topology. So there is some something that potentially can do that, but is not stated this must be used. And then, It is missing, the specification on how to employ the Relayage and in the layer to network. Why we have written this draft the objective with this draft is to reopen the possibility to stand, the the legacy DHCP for supporting the layer to relay yet. The same way as, it is in the ACP B6. And that is more or less all from my perspective. The So Okay. Anybody have any comments on this? Eric Van, no specific at at all. I I just wonder whether DHCP is the right protocol to do this. Rather than something else. That's Yeah. I don't know. But I don't think it really belongs in DHT. No. The ICP is a very smart way for doing that. Because, in the ACP, the 6, you have the information in the proper position that can be per it. And then, all the standard works pretty well. So this works already like, wish it in the ACP V Six. It's not on the ACP V Four. I I don't know. There might be some other very good idea on how to solve a problem. There is something called it's down here to guessing. Right? It's not my my are your expertise? If there is a layer 2 network, there must be a spanning tree somewhere. And somebody having access to the spanning tree. Right? But here, it is a matter of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "knowing the the physical information about more than a spanning tree. So you you can do you can define a number of level of VLAN on the front all that we have quite a number of realigning being involved, but But what is important is the physical cable here. There is no way for identifying a cable That's Okay. I'm trusting you, buddy. I know it's a very special. It's a very corner. Network, that one. But this is the the network that we will have in the future in the mobile communication, Yeah, Suresh Krishnan. So I'm one of the authors of 60 to 21. Like, so I understand the problem. And Yes. I I I think there might be better solutions, but I think DTC is like a potential candidate solution here. And, we we have this for the ACV 6. It actually like, the whole thing will work for DCP V Six. And don't know, Bernie, you might remember this, like, because I remember, like, about 10 years ago, we actually had a working group raft like doing this. For the, L2RA. Like, I think it was like, maybe we should also somebody who worked on it and it abandoned the some reason. I don't know why. That's the part I couldn't remember. I looked it up. I I don't remember why I was in the room, and I don't remember why we abandoned Yeah. So there was something like like like like like like like like like like like like like like like like that it got stuck up in. So, I would like try to find out. I'll talk to somebody who worked on right, at the time and see why they abandoned it. Yeah. We did we didn't talk to Okay. No. No. It's more than that. I did it's more than that. Okay. So, yeah, I can see if there's a issue that kind of didn't make it go forward, but I'm open to, like, kind of, like, revisiting this and see if it Actually, we only need a subset of what Ted was doing because we don't need boot for instance. A lightweight, would work So, like, So the other question I have is on the side. It's like, hey. You're saying network for the future? What doesn't Adobe 6?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Right? Like, it's that that that would, like, be my, like, biggest, like, thing for that. Right? Like, so it's Yeah. I think that you can the the big problem with, supporting only ATBC is that you cannot enforce all the operator that have millions of radio installed to change them over ipv6. That is It is quite a strong point. Right. Like, but so so this is, like, also for legacy radio. You wanna go back That is only for legacy radiant for for operator that have, IPV 4 on the on that network. Yeah. Because, like, when I saw eSIPRI, I would think, like, you know, your placing the RRU and the you, and they both gonna be new. Right? That's kind of my underlying assumptions. Yes. And no. Because it it is not a matter of replace. It is a matter of, doing a software update because there is a lot of things and normally this, transceiver, they have they are not a very powerful device. So they have a little capacity, little CPU, and all is working on layer 2. So it is only a small channel that does basic operation and maintenance on IP. That we exploit to find the the the the identity of the radio. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, Davadanputter. So we're just giving giving me a great lead in. There's an RFC for GSPV 4 over GSPV 6. I don't think it currently applies to relay operation. But I think what you're asking for is equivalent as are already there in jcbv6. For before. And you are asking for vendors to update the l 2 relay agent, right, because the l 2 relay agent would change behavior with your suggestion. Maybe a better way would be instead to change it in a way that it instead encapsulates the HTTP field before request in V Six, and you just use the existing infrastructure. That way we also get more basics. Well, this is the the the the draft is still a draft."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "It can be done in a number of ways. So ideas are welcome. Is, yeah, yeah, Derek, one of the co authors, for Claudia, draft. Yes, it's sort of highlight where we are with this. So this is we're bringing a a use case it's like, you know, one example, perhaps they want the other examples where there's kind of feature would be useful. Kind of open on exactly how to go about it as sort of some preference that it's somehow related to. DHP, given that the V Six case is already handled through that. And whether it's sort of rewiping the old drafts for doing this or or, you know, some carrying, before in in v 6. Maybe that's a detail, and we could talk about that and and certainly your your opinions on that is is welcome. I was unable to find back the protocol name, my first talking. There is something called LIDP, No. Sure. But then LLipia ends up into the first SWek. Exactly. We put this one up on purpose. Then you get tippers and then you can use Netmo or Netcon for SNMP or whatever. To grab those information. Yes. And we also were thinking about using other things like O and M protocols for that. 8 will make fits, Yeah. It is another approach. So here we are promoting promoting this approach. That's it can be done in a different way. Yes. Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. I think that was everything we had on a good job guys. Got 10 minutes. Just quick wrap up things. We're gonna send the 8415. This is our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "please go look at that working group last call It ends November 20th. Please get your comments in, take a read of it, we wanna move that along and then, Jen's draft we'll do a working group last call on that next week after we wrap up this week. And I think everything else take a look at those drafts that we talked about today. I think there was a lot of good feedback I don't have anything else. Does anyone have anything? Alright. Or close it down. Thanks, everybody. Thanks, Bernie. So, Bernie, how long have you been chair of DHT? I don't recall. You can't even remember. Yeah. It's so long ago. I don't know. We'd have to go back to the the records. But not as long as Ralph. I think Ralph has still got everybody be Okay. It's good to see you. Good. Yeah. Good to see you guys. Alright. Take care. Have a great day. That's And there are a few holes in the notes, so it's if people could take a quick look and fill in the gaps, that would be great. Thank you. I don't we wrap up this stuff. I'll see if I can drop. I'll send him a extra"
  }
]
