[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "Thank you Shall we? Hello, welcome to 120 TV It is, it is time. So we are going to start I will go through for the, just for the first few minutes, a couple of chair slides, just where we are where we are at the milestones, what is the status of current documents and then we will get into it. We have a 60 minute session Next slide So it is Thursday at the end of the day, but still note well that we are here at the IETF by participating. You agree to our policies and procedures There is a somewhat of a large set of BCP underneath, which hopefully we are all familiar with Next slide Somewhat new is a renewed reminder that we will need appropriate behavior in all of our working group sessions appropriate described in BCP 54, but summarized here that we would like respect and courtesy for all colleagues at all times, and to not have, to have impersonal and technical discussions going forward Next slide if you are looking for various resources IETF agenda TVR agenda, how to get on to Meetecho, here we go, please make sure that if you are in the room that you have logged into at least the in the room tool please make sure you have joined the queue before going to the microphone Next slide. And here how you do that if anyone is unfamiliar at this point with me echo next slide We would like to make sure that we have good notes from these meetings. So we would ask if someone is willing to be sort of a primary note taker on the shared notepad Would anyone volunteer for that? that?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "okay maybe Adam, looking at you Sure notes. Thank you. Otherwise, please join and help out Here's our mailing list. Next slide So, one thing before we get into the document present is we did look through our milestones and we adjust some of our dates. We talked about this on the mailing list. We ran a two-week call in the mailing list with with no issue so we've extended some of the dates particularly around the applicability state and other considerations. We would like to try and finish up requirements as we can in the next few months with the data model soon thereafter. Just to take a moment, are there any concern with the milestones that we have or the changes to the milestones? Okay, next slide So we had started making progress on almost all of these milestones The use case document, which is now at Rev 9, is on the RCA Editor's queue. So we are waiting for that. The requirements document is now at Rev.03, we will be hearing about it today and one of the questions we will have is is this ready for working group last call? Similarly for the Schedule Yang module and we are now just looking to start work on the applicability stage next slide So we're going to be walking through each of these in turn and we do have some time left over in the agenda for open mic to talk about anything additional But before we get into it, any other additions or changes? to the agenda Okay with that, Tony anything else to add? No, no. So why don't we start? Our first presentation is going to be on the status of TVR requirements with daniel king"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "Do you have control? or? Unfortunately, no USBA orchestras. Yes So I see that I have 15 minutes Yay. I don't think I'm going to needle this time but I do like listening to the sound of my own voice, so let's see Next slide, please So if you've been asleep for the last three IETF, or not paying attention to TVR why not? Welcome. This is the requirements document, as Ed just mentioned it was one of our objectives of the working group It's a requirements that should sort of outline several clear objectives of a data model at some point and the applicability of that data model. We have three main authors, but several contributors We essentially collected required from several documents that were submitted when the first sort of working group was created although, yeah, we had our first meeting when the working group was created and there were already several drafts that were looking at potential requirements based on different use cases And this is really the document that collected some of the common requirements and then actually there were some additional requirements we hadn't considered initially. Next slide, please So we have an assumption with our time variant network that there will be interesting as well as occasional changes These are planned. They are scheduled or scheduled, depending on where you live we know that tBR can be applied to a wide range of scenarios fixed network, radio networks, free space objects if you are that way inclined but categorically fundamentally,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "these are not unplanned changes. Although there may be situations where there is a catastrophic failure that may affect a plan change in link status but that is not necessarily something that we captured in the requirements document. We do expect that the network will have a particular time horizon and essentially we've got a schedule that will address changing requirements whether it's bandwidth capacity requirements, maybe it's situational location dependent, maybe it's going to be due to some kind of occlusion We will sort of investigate based on different use cases what requirements are necessary Next slide, please If you read the document and hopefully most of you have at least read or scanned one version of the document, you'll see that we structured the document in terms of motivation components, which include a terminology section and we felt it was important to have consistent use of language across the different TVR documents that said it's also important to be consistent with other IETF technology as well So when we're talking about things like controllers, we're really generally talking in the parlance of say path computation element and we kind of map those onto using a controller i.e a PCE to manage potentially a net those onto using a controller i.e. a PCE to manage potentially a network in that network you'll have nodes or entities We have structured the document to address in terms of requirements three categories of use cases and these map to what were described in the problem statement and use case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "document. So resource preservation, operating efficiency and dynamic reachability covering some of the scenarios I've just mentioned And then we have some main sections with subsections that really talk about all of the sort of key characteristics function requirements of a time variant network. Next slide, please So what's changed? from the previous version to the current version of the document? that was recently submitted? Actually the previous version was fairly stable There were sort of some TBDs, but in the previous version we addressed the significant gaps that were still remaining so that was mainly related to some operational consideration and security. There was some terminology that needed to be cleaned up. In this version, of the document, we've kind of gone through an editorial review We've also added a new section. I say added the section title, subsection title was already in the document, but it was empty that really talks about sort of constraints And these are your factors that may affect a time variant networking so now we but it was empty that really talks about sort of constraints and these are your factors that may affect a time variant networking so now we've got I think four categories you can count them and within each of those categories there's some sort of description text here. But if you read the document, the sections are expanded and again, you know, the are heavily dependent on the three use case slash categories from the previous slide. So you'll find that sort of weather conditions would affect a mobile base station potentially maybe sort of of eleo consulate where you've got sort of ground stations talking to eleo nodes as part of the constellation that are flying overhead things like predicted traffic demand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "operating efficiency, maybe those are more related to tidal use case the tidal use case example that we've talked about often in the working group, essentially something like a campus network where it's quite easy to make and then predict demand and then manage the nodes in a way that you'll reflect behavior of users, but also trying to maximize the efficiency in terms of power of the node itself or nodes. Next slide, please Ah! so where are we now? Essentially we have a complete document there are no TBDs or editors note that I'm aware of. So I should caveat that. There's certainly no open PR essentially tickets in GitHub at the moment that says we really need to write something because someone's asked a question on the mailing list When I look through the charter, which I do refresh my memory occasionally and what the objective of the requirements document was, I believe, or the authors believe that we've kind of met the objectives, we have one example within the document that sort of talks about the different requirements and how they apply to a particular use case So potentially we could expand that, but actually maybe that's probably the role of an applicability document rather than the requirements document because we shouldn't be biasing any potential solution work thinking they thinking allowed at the moment there was a discussion on the list around if an information model was required. But we're already stabilising the data model So no, we probably don't need an information model, but is there something that you might document? in an information model, maybe sort of a high level sort of view? of function that would be useful?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Maybe that should actually be put in the data model. Maybe it's could be put in the requirements Do I have any more? I can't remember if there's another slide Oh, there's another slide So, do you read us, and if you haven't read the document, please read it feel that the document meets the objective and the milestone? is there anything obvious that's missing? Is there something that's maybe not quite so obvious? that we could do within the document? Otherwise, we would sort of solicit reviews and we can look to address those on the mailing list, and then hope reviews and we can look to address those on the mailing list and then hopefully prepare the document for last call I do have two questions, both with chair hat off so so opening up the dash-03 for the requirements just a comment, it is missing an interesting Section one is blank. Yeah. So all four short introductions but but probably not an all introduction And that sort of then leads to the second sort of question is where we talk about security concerns There are a few, they are sort of impacted by this concept of time variant is there something that rises to the level of requirement that should be part of a stronger statement on security than just considerations? Yeah, yeah You, we are often remiss when we think about security with some of the protocol works and data models you know we get excited about what we're going to put on the wire, less excited about actually how do I protect my network and negate or medic security with some of these protocol works and data models. You know, we get excited about what we're going to put on the wire, less excited about actually how do I protect my network and negate or mitigate attacks. I think security is incredibly important. We're introducing this technology into the network opens up all sorts of threat vectors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "I'm not sure if the requirements document can do a good enough job per se of looking at security and the impact of a network schedule and the techniques that you might use to push or execute the schedule or synchronize the schedule across the network. But I'll take a action to look at the section again see if maybe we need to provide some additional detail and maybe as part of the the having a conversation with the authors of the applicability statement if one of if there's one posted at some point, we can provide input to something that's maybe can go into more detail yeah and and I I didn't have a particular recommendation in mind other than if we were to make a technical read-through the requirements is there any requirement that should be there related to it? It must be authenticated before or something there is I mean we talk about in terms of security we talk about how the schedule is generated who has access, how it's, but these are high level what you might do, authenticate, encode, or encrypt verify access and so on and so so, so, so they're all high-level bullet points with like a few sentences for each class No, thank you Maybe one last part with Chairhead on is with minor change like just adding a small introduction dash report Is there anyone that that does not believe this? document would be ready for working group last call we will of course do a formal poll in the mailing list, but just a sense of the room now is there any concern that we would not be ready for a working group last call? All right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "All right. Okay. Thank you so much Okay, so next on schedule is Eric, who will be talking to us about the Yang Schedule model I think we'll go to the next slide Okay, so yeah, I'll just give a brief summary of what has changed since last meeting So the first thing is that, of course, the IETF schedule draft has changed a little bit along the way. And so we've incorporated the latest version of that and i guess most of the rest of the changes really have been sort of refactoring what was already there. So we've combined some of the list of schedules into a single list so that all of the attributes are in one place into quite a bit more compact than it was before Also some in one place. It's quite a bit more compact than it was before. Also, there have been some comments about data types that we've used. So we've made some adjustments there. I said, was before. Also, there have been some comments about data types that we've used. So we've made some adjustments there. I suspect some more adjustments are required. Next all right so just a quick review of what's in that draft. So there is, these three parts There's a grouping that you can use to augment whatever thing that you're working on that needs a schedule. And then we have a couple of uses of that in here So a device model and a network topology model both of which use that particular grouping Next All right, so this is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "current definition of the schedule group and some of the feedback we got before was that we should do away with time zones, and some of that was just part of the IETI schedule, but we've made use of some groupings that they had now that omit time zone and just assume UTC All right, and this is the device model with a few things or a couple of things pointed out here where we have gotten some feedback on on types and there's the other a couple of things pointed out here where we have gotten some feedback on types. And there's, you know, I guess a question of whether that we want to be consistent with other things like the TE types module or or perhaps the by the IETF network topology model So in, you know, in here we've got things that are more in line with with TE types, for example for the node ID ID Next. And here and I think this is largely the result of drafts being merged this is more in keeping with the network topology model in terms of node ID, for example So the things like the bandwidth, for example, is been made a bit more generic as opposed to the TE2 types. But that's something that would be good to get a little more feedback on if there are opinions about that and that's that And I think that concludes all of the changes that we've made"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "in the interim. So if there are questions, be glad to try to answer those Otherwise, I think that's all So sorry, I just a quick question again, Chair head off So note ID will always be a URI and not necessarily a dotted quad. I think it's a little inconsistent at the moment So I'm not sure if it makes sense to use one or the other in either of those models if we're aiming for consistency with something else that's already existing okay so that would be sort of then my comment back is, is that if we should do a scrub for consistency through these we have sort of two other folks in the queue. Oh, okay. Things in This is Yangtzen from Futureway, so a speaker as a co-author. So one open issue we have right now is the node ID type In the device model, we have it as dotted quad And in the topology model, we have it as you are right. So we know that, so we left that on purpose we want to know the community's feedback which one we should choose our you know we look at, I look at out the ATF model that's published so most device model like protocols for router ID or node ID, we use dotted quad And for some topology models, that's why the topology model we choose to use the INETURI. Yeah so we do want to get some communities feedback see whether we have any preference. So just like last time when we try say, you know, do we want the time zone?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "Everybody said, no, we don't want time zone So we got rid of that So it's an open issue and we want community's feedback oh thank you and just just to add we are here so maybe I would also just ask the question do we feel strongly about dotted quadvers URI? Just open to folks either. If anyone would like to join in and chime in. So essentially it's a dotted quad versus a string. Yeah Yeah Good Yes yeah yes yes one comment here in relation with the the next presentation, I have a suggestion of a case where probably we could require some more detail some grouping, let's say, of links, for instance as you will see next, in the situation of removing one card. So instead of specifying link by link, the ones that will be impacted, probably we can do some grouping for yeah just simply indicating that one card will be the commission, for instance, and then a number of links will be impacted probably will become more clear in in the next presentation if this could be something necessary to be reflected in the model thank you Tony Lee Jennifer necessary to be reflected in the model. Thank you. Tony. Hi, Tony Lee, Juniper. Hat off. Isn't dotted quaff IPV4 specific? That seems a little bit 1996 Agreed. Brian, brian sipos Yes. Question about the time-varying attributes Is there a reason why only bandwidth was singled out, or is there an expectation that this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "model will be model? Is there a reason why only bandwidth was singled out, or is there an expectation that this model will be extended by other uses? Yes, it is designed to be extended as needed. So the, I the, what was it could be atro? container is what gets augmented by whoever uses this and the two the two exams And the two, you know, the two example usages that we have, you know, with the, uh, topology and the device model both show, show examples that. So there's a augment or excuse me a user statement with augment so we just we just put the what we thought might be the most common things there yeah so right now in the model we are trying to model all the attributes that can change with a schedule So bandwidth is one of them. We think that may have this characteristic So the next steps, we have the questions for additional attributes You know, if you think of something more we should add please let us know Rick? So I think the previous answer and the question about dotted court raises a sort of a question I have and please tell me where I'm wrong. And the question is how generic are you trying to make this Yang model? Is it I have a selection of links which are IP address based, so we'll argue about dotic quad or IPV6 support blah, blah, blah, and the attribute is bandwidth which changes, or is it, here is a model about properties of a link which has and the link has identifiers that may change because in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "that case the argument about dotted court might be a uri or some more jr generic yang data type that is suitable for derivation I'm trying to pick something, a DTN example will be a bundle protocol EID could be something that changes over time I'm sure there's MPLS or layer two things you know, where, that's my question is how specific or general purpose are you? aiming with this? I think we had something fairly general purpose in mind I think it may take a little so I'm being corrected it says a node ID which is derivable so that if I've got some other type of node identifier that isn't an IP address i corrected, it is a node ID, which is derivable so that if I've got some other type of node identifier that isn't an IP address, I can still use the model with a bit of extension extension I think I prefer URI because it gives me the most flexibility Yeah, okay. Good URI because it gives me the most flexibility. Yeah, okay. Yeah, Gantra van de Valdes flexibility. Yeah, okay. Yeah, Gantra van de Veld is speaking as a contributor here. Can you go back like to? slides because I forgot the name of the leaf Yeah, so here, here, here So here I actually see like, you know, the schedules and schedule ID. I see the same thing in different places places So normally when I write my own young kind of thing I tend to use like a leafer to point to each other so that, you know, it's actually aligned together. And I think you have a definition in here, like in each place different as a you in 32 So are there, you know, are the scheduled ideas what you have here, like, you know, in the different places are they aligned to each other or not the schedule ideas I don't think there's any correlation in schedule ID between the modules if that's what you're asking I don't think there's any, there's no special meeting in code"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "in that, in that integer value Yeah, so, so sorry, I was probably unclear there. So you see like under the interface schedule you have like you know a schedule I did that. And you have the same thing if you go high to note schedule, you have a schedule ID there OK, yes. See what I'm going to? So normally when I have like the same you know leave name I tend to use like a leaf ref because you configured it once and then you're sort of like, you know then you have like automatic validation from the moment you configure this thing Okay Right. So there is no correlation between them because these are two independent lists lists So it's maybe a little bit hard to read up there, but yeah so if they're not nested so if they're like two independent lists then should they have the same name? Probably doesn't matter because you're like in a different pattern note Am I next in the key? Yeah, I'm next in the queue Yeah, I'm next in the queue. So I think this, this really hard highlights actually why it's so important to have early implement and some prototyping. Because it kind of irons out the bugs and then feeds back in this sort of iterative process of developing the data model. So one of the things on the agenda later today is actually looking at a hackathon in Dublin, we can kind of save that conversation, hopefully towards the end of the conversation but I just would absolutely encourage people who are interested in putting a prototype together and want to kind of work with others. We at Lancaster University are working on a implementation. We hope to do that in Dublin with others as well All right. Just to join quickly with Chair Hat on do we feel that with some minor discussions related to things like Node Ideas, you are URI, and maybe some other name?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "feel that with some minor discussions related to things like node ideas a uri and maybe some some other naming changes that this is does anyone feel this would not be ready for a working group last call? Daniel? Oh, okay. I was leaving the queue, but some of the Ah, okay quickly, does anyone feel that this would not be ready for a working group last call? obviously we would do a call on the mailing list but while we'll are here, any concerns? Have we given a scrub of? this through the requirements document? Will we be able to see traceability between these documents? Not formal traceability, but are they are they, is one informed by? the other Yes yes, let's. Rick I'm going to be that guy um i'm not sure this is ready for last call i think that you know there was some questions from the floor. I don't think it's far but I think there's a few more questions around the dot quad, maybe about that leaf usage. You said it was separate Just when questions are turning up like that it feels that perhaps one more rev and a bit of list discussion might be useful. And I promise to join in that conversation rather than being silent Just a moment to that is if we do have concerns on that, what I would do is ask that we post those concerns on the mailing list so that we could then have the discussions there. Yeah daniel king So I would hope that the authors of the data model would be reviewing the requirements document and then the requirement authors can review the data model The last call is too early because if there need to be changed especially as we're sort of sim signposted that we plan to do some implementations and do some intrepability anything that comes out of that session"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "would provide guidelines and potentially updates to the data model as well well I think we will at least try to do a couple of iterations before the next IETF and for the next IETF we will look at see whether it's right for last call. Sounds good and Don hi I'm don fedyk with regards to cross-rass with the requirements, I think that'd be a good idea but my my regards to cross-referencing with the requirements, I think that'd be a good idea. But my own mental model, I get stuck when I go across some of the attributes like, for example, priority, I think of if there's a single source of this information who cares about priority but if there's multiple sources of this information maybe that's some of, if there's a single source of this information, who cares about priority, but if there's multiple sources of this information, maybe that's something we need to look at. And you know, that's just a quick browse so i think there's it's worth doing that but it maybe that's something we need to look at. And, you know, that's just a quick browse. So I think it's worth doing that. But the concept of where and and which environments maybe also, I don't have a complete picture of but which then is just last night we've kept you up here for for a few minutes long If the idea is that we could have a few iterations of this document or a new iteration this document for Dublin that might be ready then for working group last call what I would just ask is if you have not read through this document already to please do so and provide those comments to the mailing list so that we could get things updated for 121 All right. Thank you so much Right. And next up we will have Alto Explosion. Thank you Hello, everybody. I will present an update on this route about using ALTO for exposing time time-marian routing information. Next, please So a little bit of recap about what is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "purpose here. The idea would be to have some off-path mechanism to expose schedule changes on the topology to be consumed by applications. These applications could be internal, that could be a packet call from the mobile network, for instance, or a CDN, internal CDN to the operator, or could be even external maybe connectivity between data centers or even external CDNs. So the draft has been presented in, I think in all the meetings, have to now. As I said, the idea is having kind of off-path mechanism This off-pack mechanism could coexist with on-path mechanisms so they do not complete. In fact, the off-path mechanism could consume the information being distributed on-path in order to populate later on the schedule change and the benefit of the beauty of this of path capabilities would be that some the processing could be run far from the network elements. But this is another story I mean, that somehow the processing could be done by an external entity this somehow relates with the requirements document we refer as centralized solutions. So it will serve the purpose of exposing these scheduled topological changes to services as said either internal and external And we refer here to Altois a kind of tactical reference in the sense that alto is a standard solution from IETF, and also ALTO incorporate a way of exposing different topological views along the time, which are these costs calendar feature. So somehow this is right but generalizing the point, whatever let's say, of pass solution could be used here. We have seen here in ATF all the Jampush, Kafka, this kind of things. So basically, well, we are focusing on auto as an example of those possibilities those capabilities. Next, please So the changes from the previous version, we have added a kind of applicability statement so simplifying what would be the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "exercise of the job model here The scenario that we are figuring out here is basically one engineer from the NOC will proceed to perform any kind of intervention in the network. Could be the removal of a car software, a grade, or whatever whatever thing that you can imagine. So this can be done for sure in advance to the proper intervention in the network and these changes can be somehow populated to external applications so that these external applications or internal I mean, let's call it applications in general, will be aware of these topological changes at the point that this topological changes will happen. Okay, so somehow we can populate these changes next please so apart from that applicability statement we also reported some identified apps or what we understand that could be gaps. One is what I was mentioning before in the microphone so probably we could require to have a final granularity or further granularity in the model. For instance, if we are working on having some access in the card, for sure we can specify one by one the links that will be impacted but probably would be more convenient to specify the group of links that will be impacted, for instance, referring to the card If the card has so many pores as 48 ports or 72 ports, as we have in the routers today, it would be very overhead having this in the, going, let's say, in the granularity of link. So probably it would be better to have yeah further levels of granularity Also, another thing that we report here is that the the conflicts no So having, when you have a central element for you can somehow have better ways of arbitrating conflicts in the change so it could be the case in a distributed scenario where different changes are populated so we need maybe what Don was referring before that priority"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "or so. In the centralized, we will have a more overarching overview and probably is easier to handle The third point will be the ways of reverting changes. Also, this is something that could happen so we need maybe to elaborate more on what could be the capabilities of reverting changes that are previously scheduled. Maybe the priority would be again the solution and thinking on as well in on on what could be the possibilities of reverting changes that are previously scheduled. Maybe the priority would be again the solution. And thinking as well on this situation of exposing to others to external applications in this case, schedule changes probably that could be a security problem the fact that these applications could access to the own path distribution of these schedule changes. So probably the off-path somehow provide a more secure way of exposing these changes. Apart from that, we have added a section for implementation It's not yet, I mean, it's empty by now, but the point here is that we are implementing the scenario situation that I saw at the beginning. So we expect to have this completed for next IETF and then reporting a, yeah, reporting and made available as open source, whatever stuff that we are doing for simplifying and exercising this scenario And finally, the last point that we did was a refinement on the compliance of the requirements So I think it's important for every solution to to match again the requirements so that we can be sure that more or less we are fitting the requirements that we are basically defining next please So as next steps, we would like to collect further feedback from the working group the previously received comments we consider that have been already addressed We are working yet on the implementation and we will report in new gaps, if any appears on that implementation I said for next IETF we expect to have an initial version of the scenario that we have shown before And yeah, and our idea would be to add for adoption as a path solution for TBR That is the case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "and the document is adopted, this also could even trigger some additional work on the alto staff for fulfilling all the requirements for instance the requirement of time overlap is not covered today in the cost calendar feature So this would require some extension for ALTO alto probably is the only requirement that is not covered In my memory, they do not fail and yeah and we refer here to alto as of possible solution, but somehow could be generalized, maybe could be also an option to generalize and not put the focus on alto but move the on the off-pass solution in general terms. And that's all Thank you. So myself and Donna in the queue I have two questions first with chair hat off if we go to slide three the sort of simple question is as we have made changes and updates to the schedule gang module, then are we tracking those changes here? And if things have changed in the schedule, for example, time zones and so on are we agreeing with those changes to hold things? together yeah yeah but I'm well I you the more recent model so and this basically we are exercising the model we are not questioning the model So it's just exercising in the model for somehow being able to specify intervention in the network for maintenance and so I mean I don't have any concern with the model We are using a series, no more than that And then I'll ask my second in just a moment I'll do to go to Don first. This actually might apply to the requirements more but the events over the last week made me remind me of um back in the day when he used to make a change to configuration that isolated your note or something it wouldn't stick and it would roll back But with the time variant stuff, we may have put a case in where we could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "do something in the future and the time executes and then we isolate a node or something, do we have any safeguards for that that? if we execute something in time variance? and a node is isolated itself, maybe it should roll back that time variance or have a contingency plan for it That's for the requirement To Dan That daniel king. Yes. Where am I? I'm at the mic. We definitely you know, the synchronization And who is responsible for generating the schedule? what mechanism pushes it, when is it accurate, actuate executed, these are all really interesting problems, but they're really hard to think about at the moment And so although we have to interesting problems, but they're really hard to think about at the moment. And so although we have sort of thought about them, there are things about synchronization and responsibility in the requirements document i would imagine and this is kind of a question I was going to have with Lewis after the meeting. What about if you have multiple controllers? in the network? Is there a primary control or an active control? and then there's a standby controller? What happens if a node receives two requirements? to modify a resource at a particular time or day of the week? How do you handle collisions and priority? This discussion has already started, by the way, in ops or day of the week. How do you handle collisions and our priority? This discussion has already started, by the way, in OPS, because we've got the generic schedule Yang document as well so maybe we kind of need to sync up a little bit and see if there's like common aspects"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "The question I was going to ask for Lewis and i will now is the open source code that you mentioned, is that TFS? Is that the Etsy TFS project? Or it's something else? Is open source being developing in framing another project? a spanish project called optimax okay is it but basically what we are exercising is the the scenario that they saw in the first slide. So having the knock engineering, requesting some change then calculating the impact of the change and then performing the change in the network. But having a mechanism of public mechanism for advertising that we are using alto for this Thanks And just a final question with Chair Hadron, which is we had mentioned the idea of working group adoption of this as a potential off-path as a off-path solution Again, to the mailing list, but while we are here are there any concerns with the idea of adopting this work for TVR? Okay, thank you right, thank you. Thank you very much And finally for our other chartered item a TBR applicability statement. Lee Hello can you hear me? Yes Oh, okay. Good afternoon. This is Lee John from Huawei. I will represent the authors and contributors to introduce the TBR applicability tract Next slide, please Oh, okay, I can control As we know, the TVR chatter defines the mail milestones, which includes the applicability status It depends on the use cases to apply TVI model and additional ATF email is required, and it will describe which function components will configure T use cases to apply TVI model and additional ATF models required. And it will describe which function components will configure TVR entities and additional process"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "and messaging mechanisms mechanism So based on the above target, we create the draft framework for the control scheduling of network resources which intended to provide the applicability statement on how TVI are young and a salary young to provide the applicability statement on how TVR Young and Accelerary Yale models may be used. This document provides functional components to service time-vidence scenario, including the entities and additional challenges such as Confident resolution priority handling And this page shows the basic function components. It includes a schedule service requester, which making the scheduling request of the next shows the basic functional components. It includes a schedule service requester which making the scheduling request of the network events policies services and resources. The Schedule Service responder access and reacts the scheduling request in detail it includes a resource menu Service responder access and reacts the scheduling request. In detail, it includes a resource manager and schedule manager conflict resource and policy engine In the following way, I will introduce how the schedule framework operates in the title network use case The Tidal Network means the traffic on the network has a beware tidal period, including a highway traffic periods and a light traffic period. The time duration of the high traffic and light traffic are clearly identifiable. For example, in the comparison network, the domitory traffic period at night and is light in the daytime and the teaching area traffic is the opposite. So based on the traffic,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "patterns, the separation time between the high traffic and the light traffic period is well established So in the tidal network the low tide topology requires less resources and the devices and the powers can be shut down to our put-to sleep to save energy. The figure below shows an example which includes two topologies for the highway traffic period and light traffic period compared to the topology at highway traffic period, the latter traffic period technology could see 28% power consumption So what part? First, the network operator needs to monitor the traffic on the internet to build a traffic profile It can establish a clear tidal process for low and upper network traffic Secondly, the operator needs to run a simple algorithm to establish a minimum and peak topology to service expected demand and thirdly, the operator needs to create a network schedule to reflect the minimum and peak traffic demands. It's a specific when and which devices should be shut down or power up And fourthly, the schedules need to be distributed to the devices and firstly, the devices needed to execute the schedules. So last two procedures will be decided for the plan hexagon In addition to the process, what network data is required. So we identify the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "following IDTF model so that will be used in the title network use case They include the IETF interface which is used to control the attribute for specific interfaces and the schedule young, and also the TVR schedule young There may be other data I also need but we haven't identified there. So this may be for further developed in the Hexta Hexta And how about? the process and the data are interiors? in actual development? We provide an example here The figure includes three components They are schedules service requester, which is an administrator and a schedule service responder which is a network controller, and also a topology with six notes and seven links The administrator requests a schedule to shut down pause from 1 o'clock to 7 o'clock in LED. And when the next down pause from 1 o'clock to 7 o'clock AM LED, and when the network controller receives this request, it needs to check whether there is a conflict with other schedules. If there is no conflict with other schedules, the schedule manager will create a schedule and install it to the Schedule Database And the resource manager will allocate the POT resource for this schedule. The policy engine will enforce this schedule policy and generate the yield models for specific nodes Then the network controller will distribute the TBR node model to the specific nodes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "and also distribute the TBR top log model to all the nodes The notes received the node schedule is distributed the TBR topology model to all the nodes. The nodes received the node schedule will execute it and shut down the specific pulse as the indicated 10 points And finally, all their nose will execute routine tables we calculate routing tables based on the tam-varied table topology. Okay, so all the procedures And here we also provide a young code of example for TIDO network In this code, the node will power up from more December 2020 to 1st December 2026. The interface 1 will power up at 7 o'clock already and the last 4 December 2020 to 1st December 26th, the interface value power up at 7 o'clock already and last 480 hours And we also would like to organize a TVI hexam based on the TVI use case to show how the proposed framework can be used for scheduling scenarios and implement the applicable IETF Young. The Yon code adjacent examples will also be generated. And in the next step, we need to develop a good use case and based on that, implanted the required your models and JSON examples examples So would this be a useful document? for TVR and are we missing any functions? or models for the use case? And we are welcome anyone who are waiting to be a partner for the TV hexon and the questions and suggest are always welcome. Thank you That's all So just Ed with Chair Hat off, I just wanted to say I loved looking through this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and I think in particular the discussion of what is the applicability of the work we are doing in TV to some of these use cases is going to be very interesting and starting with I think is a good place to start and my guess is there are similar applicability assessments that we could be making for us other things and maybe that's a good segue into a general open mic session anyway But done just in this example um a case that was just actively monitoring the network and it adjusting the load versus following the schedule for comparison. I mean, I can think of a lot of cases where you might get the schedule wrong, even though you think you've got it right and so it probably needs to measure itself anyways. And the question is, is TVR the right tool to be using for this? particular use case? That's what I would question It's probably not the right tool, but this is a good example of using TVR Joel. Okay without prejudice to the question of whether net NetConf would be a good protocol to communicate this or whether Alto would be a good protocol or we should invent a new protocol, we're all good at inventing protocols. I went and looked at our charter and the charter is very explicit about what our scope of work is and it doesn't include protocols solutions. So while I understand the temptation to say, can we adopt the Alto solution, it seems like we need to, if we want to consider that, we need to have a charter discussion about what it even means to adopt solutions and agree on that before we could adopt any particular or multiple solutions. I just, it seems"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "like we've got to get the horses and carts in the right order here Thank you No, thank you for that. Just one comment with Chair, Haddon. Absolutely, when we started with the initial charter, there was a sense that there was an initial set of work to be performed, such as requirements and data model, and that once that was done, then we would look to see what would be the next steps. And so maybe we'll are closing in on that as we get some of these initial documents done, and as we understand how we're working as a group see what would be the next steps and so maybe we are closing in on that as we get some of these initial documents done and as we understand how we're working as as a group Yes, on top of the comment from Joel, just to comment to comment to are working as a group. Please. Yes. On top of the comment from Joel, just to comment to say that we are using Alto, so we are not specifying alto, but certainly, yeah, probably the I mean, I acknowledge the concern from Joel, probably the point here would be to generalize that as a, as of a solution so not focusing on one single solution but basically in the off-path approach and maybe simplifying with alto maybe with some others Thank you. Thank you thank you okay uh daniel king yeah um i don't want to get embroiled in the sort of discussion on the messaging protocol because the hacker itself could just literally use the Yang model and run embroiled in the sort of discussion on the messaging protocol because the hackathon itself could just literally use the Yang model and write to a bit of memory and get read by something else. What we'd like to do, I think with the Hackathon is make sure that the Yang model is suitable. A use case, the title use case was one that we've been discussing because it's so easy to understand and doesn't require a satellite simulator and it's something easy to implement through mininet if we want to simulate or GNS3 or something so i definitely support a hackathon. I would strongly suggest, and I'm guess I'm talking to myself here as well, that we publish the plan via the mailing list and then see if others want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "participate as well Has a chair ever said don't? take it to the mailing list? No, no, just very much agree that's the way to have it we are we just have a two minutes left there was a short discussion on the chat, specifically around the idea of a different use case which was the Leo use case. So while we are here, a question is just like we would have an applicability statement with examples for title, would we create applicability? statements for other examples and would Leo constellations be one such example? which is I believe what my interpretation of the question from the chat I jumped, I'm off the app so this is Lou berger. I didn't see the last document as ever applicability statement, I'm sorry. That was a framework of something, but it was not an applicability statement So I think got to be really careful in what terms you're using So the charter item is an applicability statement but there is no such document yet. This is right building blocks to get to one. The last document was pitched as in a applicability document and then the title was framework and I was very confused of why we're talking about applicability. Now you're talking about applicability again. It's very confusing To be fair, this is the first draft of that document. It just got published this week Comments to the mailing list would be approved appropriate rick taylor, again, I've turned the app off I'm really sorry. I was on my way out the door Concerning the Leo satellite, the greatest taylor, again, I've turned the app off. I'm really sorry. I was on my way out the door. Concerning the Leo satellite, great as a document I think there's a lot of open questions that you could fall into when you start to talk about Leo satellite I would suggest that's more of a research topic perhaps approaching someone IRTF about how to do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "I don't think a suitable hackathon topic either. I think trying to build a Leo satellite constellation scheduler in a hackathon is unlikely to succeed But yeah no no much appreciated there's a gravity joke in there which i won't make uh we will all right any other last quick comments before we are, and our final minute? All right. Very good meeting. Thank you all so much and see you all in Dublin at one 121"
  }
]
