[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "a London call that catfight warlock that wasn\u0027t there he slammed his head against on the hitch until I could cut it Justin to people going down ten you see Kevin is just bring food to grab this video I\u0027m clock to see so I can throw this over loading capsule event looks like you look at the video you by yourself and so what I love to win it\u0027s drug you can\u0027t test for genetic modifications no not that a white option but he was wondering it did one minute ago so like last Sunday\u0027s you don\u0027t we got to get to work groups they never got one cheaper to stand Modi Sarah that is their thought they were gonna have a laptop for the main one this laptop is just for that did you send me new ones is the projector on yeah hey Greg can you rally it for a meeting cake er while I get these last sets of a note-taker "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:28",
    "text": "- I like that alright okay one last thing we need to put up here and everything right yeah one of those - come on don\u0027t you have anybody on you see right there and was there is it up there and no one guy we gotta be able to take it right here I just kind of greater yeah all right I\u0027ll do that radium size idea I\u0027m uploading the Tim slides Tim just give me the silver beer we did not talk about the working group beer okay all right I guess we can commence welcome to n low indeed welcome to Prague yes all right we\u0027ll get started this is M Bundy and we will be followed by PIM let\u0027s see please note the note note well the note well this is the newest the newest note well fresh off the presses and here\u0027s the agenda so first we\u0027re gonna go through working group items with the chairs Tim and Michael are going to talk about the multicast models draft they have to get going shortly so we\u0027re gonna bring them up very quickly Toshi is gonna give us the latest in the EM track em tres draft and hackathon update from jake and mike may be talking as well about the Wi-Fi draft that\u0027s a late addition to the agenda anybody comments Genda bash anything no he all right so uh active working group drafts the em trade stock went working group last call last year Stig gave some great comments the draft was revved based on the comments so fun and we have Regan another working group last call "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:29",
    "text": "as a result of the changes to the dock we would like to have more folks comment on this more than one comment at least to say you support it or don\u0027t support it it\u0027s it\u0027s been around let\u0027s it\u0027s ready but please comment on list what your thoughts are on that draft the peering vcp Tim thank thank is is the shepherd and he finished the right up there were several knits and textual issues Percy has just updated that and has sent that off and so that should be going very quickly no not yet that was Percy yesterday ended up changing it so I guess Tim all that\u0027s needed is take the new in and tweak your write-up and so that can be fired off when it\u0027s in the queue if there\u0027s knits around for comments from the ietf large just remanent it stays and the cute doesn\u0027t go back to the working man so that\u0027s just normal you found are just running through the tool alright other drafts the multi has models info no actually no that\u0027s the yang models and and there is the multi cast models which Tim is going to talk about right right now actually after he signs the blue sheet so Tim you can come on up we\u0027re ready for you there never is but it has please do sign the blue sheets okay so I\u0027m just going to talk about this draft that we last discussed in Berlin which I think was three meetings ago the initial focus of it next slide was to document at a high-level multicast service models discuss use cases in a couple of deployment examples with the general idea as part of the message or key part of the message would be to recommend the use of SSM wherever possible so he got some reasonably positive feedback at ITF ninety-six about the need to recommend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:31",
    "text": "SSM or promote SSM but to also strip back on a lot of the other text in the document things being things that documents being part and Miquelon I haven\u0027t updated it for a year but we\u0027ve now got some further vigor to have another go at it so next slide and I think what we really want to focus on what the message was in Berlin was that we could do with a up-to-date modern recent draft that promotes the use of SSM and advocates the use of SSM and Gabe\u0027s current up-to-date thinking as to why that\u0027s the case so you talk about a lot in the working group but there\u0027s no document that explicitly says that some quite old documents but nothing recent so that\u0027s the proposal so ruvi we focus on case for SSM and to give an appropriate new title to the document rather than whatever it is at the moment so hopefully that\u0027s not too contentious however there is you\u0027ve thrown me off completely now by its new Voter so hopefully that\u0027s not too contentious next slide so hopefully some of you at the back if you can\u0027t read it come to the front Lenny got in touch with Michael and I and Lenny\u0027s a co-author on this as well and so hey I\u0027ve just seen this email on the internet too multicast working group lists there\u0027s half a dozen emails though there appeared in the last month or so the interesting bit of which is that they\u0027re reviewing their how they\u0027re deploying with the new backbone and what they\u0027d like to do is to say we don\u0027t really need a SM anymore on the backbone we\u0027d like to get rid of MSD PA and all the complexities of running ASM interdomain on the backbone so there\u0027s a proposal there in that group that they essentially deprecated the use of ASM interdomain so I think that\u0027s something that we could consider also making a statement about in this working group and I think Lenny had it as part of the discussion on that thread you can see the link there he was saying well we can discuss this in the ITF and see what we wanted to say about that within the ITF so hence I think this document in addition to promoting SSN could perhaps if we choose to say a little bit about say killing off but making it clear that we don\u0027t think as well that ASM is a something we should be doing at least inter-domain next slide so the question is do we want to take IETF action here is there something that we want to say so he gets the end of the slide stick before comments you can just lurk being employed by Cisco to develop a multicast you probably don\u0027t want multicast deprecated yeah so do we want to take ITIF action they do we want to write something up along these lines and if so if we are deprecating SM is it just the inter domain okay so probably what we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:33",
    "text": "would say but how would we express that what language would we use how what would we do could we make up I mean MSD peers or only ever been experimental do you want to make that historic but then it\u0027s got use within a domain as well so that\u0027s not clear certainly what David farmer who wrote the email to the internet to list his drive it was simply to make multicast simpler to operate on the Internet - backbone and that\u0027s something that goodbye view in the UK and the Janet Network which is the equivalent of the Internet to network in the States there\u0027s something I would certainly sympathize with but then what about use of ASO on a campus we should probably or should we just be saying whatever you do within your own domain that\u0027s up to you but inter-domain perhaps we should be looking to make things simpler and just say inter-domain is SSM and as the chairs have just said we\u0027ve also just about to push the is G a document that\u0027s BCP on how you do inter domain SSM so that kind of fits quite well as well so yeah we can make our draft essentially a BCP status document promoting SSM we can note the wording in some of the older documents that give the good reasons for using SSM but also we probably want to think about appropriate guidance for applications if you\u0027re writing an application to make it an SSL map application rather than an ASM one and all the associated things like how you would do source discovery for example next I think there\u0027s cuff just a couple more sides so the other thing is here if we\u0027re going to make some kind of don\u0027t use ASM into the main statement for v4 what are we gonna do about v6 it\u0027s one of the people involved with stigand Peko in the creation of embedded RP in the six net project if it\u0027s shame to sort of throw the baby out so to speak but I think we have to be fair if we\u0027re going to say don\u0027t do inter-domain ASM for v4 we should probably say the same for v6 even if it\u0027s relatively simpler to deploy so we could make the embedded RP RSC historic or we could just simply use some language that says it\u0027s not recommended in uppercase we need to decide how we\u0027re going to express it there\u0027s also in by dear we need to decide whether we\u0027re going to say anything about that promote it or we need to think about what we\u0027re going to say because it is an important thing they also need to think about what\u0027s happening right at the edges with our champion MLD I\u0027m one of the co-authors of the ipv6 node requirements update are a c64 34 so in there we\u0027ve elevated mo DB to should 2a must be probably if we\u0027re gonna do promoting SSM in this document we probably want to have something in here and make this document be CP that says IGMP b3 is a must for v4 as well I know the ITF is kind of saying don\u0027t do new things would be for but we can certainly I believe make a statement about making IGMP b3o essentially a must for v4 platforms and then there\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:34",
    "text": "whole issue of how all this fits in with the applications yeah which applications are dependent on ASM at the moment which applicant if we\u0027re going to say don\u0027t use ASM interdomain which kind of aligns with the draft that Percy\u0027s finally got out what are the applications if any that are going to be hurt by that so we probably want some engagement with the art area to have that discussion I would say next slide so I think that\u0027s all the slide so basically what do we want to do here do we just want to produce a carrot do you want to produce a stick do we want a carrot and a stick do we just focus on promoting inter-domain SSM do we want to promote SSM everywhere and in the ITF terms how do we express that is there a lot of musts and recommended and not recommended in a BCP document what do we do stick figure with us I could probably give you like 20 or comments and luxury to see that\u0027s what email is good for but at least I\u0027m happy to heavily encourage as a Sam but I don\u0027t think we should deprecated ASM completely for it lock into the main multicast like between independent domains like sort of like on the internet or whatever I think it\u0027s a great idea to say use SSM huh yeah but there are cases where people have first of all like interred intradomain there\u0027s some use cases for ASM partly because it allows discovery and there is associate or what discovery basically is forced discovery you have you know you have applications that need to bootstrap that basically have no knowledge so sources whatever when they start up so especially link-local multicast but sometimes also at his site local multicast like finding your DHCP server or there\u0027s you know lots of custom applications from arias vendors where they you know like light bulbs or whatever ever they need to come up and say I\u0027m here where where should I you know these are things we can talk about it\u0027s rather there yeah but the our case is also where people have you know doing inter domain multicast but it\u0027s actually within sort of like one organization or there might be cases where you are an isp and you are working with appearing with a content provider and I would say SSM would be best in that case but maybe there are some cases where it\u0027s hard to move to SSM but I\u0027m sorry just on that point I think it\u0027s important thing to put in the minutes is we need to identify things where it\u0027s hard to use SSM for summary I\u0027m happy to say use the system wherever you can ASM should be an exception when it comes to embedded RP I just want to say there are people using embedded RP to not just on the internet and your case is like I said where we have multiple domains within one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:34",
    "text": "organization how people have used embedded RP or are using and so the language could be within organization rather than within a domain isn\u0027t a domain and organization like sort of like a management domain or if you talk more about say team domains kind of you know and we have to think about the language but I mean you might think about you know international corporate enterprise network they\u0027re spread across multiple so yes for instance yes and basically you don\u0027t want to have like one single RP for all of your traffic you might want to say for this site I have this RP this other site to have a lower our peer ight but you still want to have a reach ability throughout your entire organization just one more thing I should like the idea of discussing this different models that like you have now in the draft but for each of them you know it can give you some recommendations to say this is best for this purpose only use this if you have to it\u0027s like that so to just kind of summarize you don\u0027t want to deprecate ASM altogether it\u0027s valid and reasonable within a domain between domains where do you stand for is it just recommend SSM recommend against ASM or fully deprecated ASM I\u0027m happy to say should not use ASM or you know you better only have you should have a really good reason if you want to use I\u0027m just not quite sure in the IHF language whether should not yeah there\u0027s never do this unless you help you recommend it enough space so we need to figure out what your language it\u0027s not recommended there was something like that well they can explain a little bit OS sm is more secure easier to manage and things like that nothing yeah I think most of us in the room would say deprecating ASM completely is the ultra hard brexit is not something humans do yeah J holin yeah I wonder if coward from the earth would be the appropriate language but yeah RFC 46 on eine you might want to take a look at informational security and it I believe I\u0027ve referenced a few times makes a recommendation already about not using ASM so you at least might want to reference it but yeah thank you for this or it\u0027s good and yeah I look forward to seeing the revisions yeah I think the idea is to pull together all the previous statements made in past RFC\u0027s into something because that\u0027s probably ten years old now I would guess of that sort of vintage yes but I mean I I think 4,600 is process anyway it\u0027s old really pulling together all the comments made plus the current thinking into you know a current document I think is what yeah yeah I don\u0027t think it references for you six or nine selected that in the minutes thank you yeah I can send you a follow up going on with reference to it and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:40",
    "text": "that must be all it so Michael Abramson Kowal through here I have talked to people and I\u0027ve experienced this myself that doing inter-domain ism is very brittle and breaks in weird ways and it\u0027s hard to operate and I think my main thing here is I want to help those within their organization making this case when someone comes along and say I need this and I need to do ASM while all because product or you know vendor only supported that or whatever then if this document is there that might help them to say it and look go back to the vendor and to get them to implement SSM instead so the everybody agree on that goal yeah I think I mean that I think the point David farmers making is it makes doing this makes it easier for the internet to as an ISP is they\u0027re probably providing RP functionality for some of the campuses that don\u0027t run their own but it also does help the people in the campuses because it simplifies and hopefully reduces the amount of trouble tickets they\u0027re following up because of problems for those because I think sometimes someone comes along with and like I must have this you know we need to we bought this product already we always spent this money and it needs a is them to work or we\u0027re thinking of that about it and this product is cheaper and it does say isn\u0027t a little so at least give them guidance on on this and helping in choosing perhaps a different solution and for implementers as well yeah yeah I think it\u0027s one of the great values that we as a working group can provide is direction you know to app developers providing that direction years ago had we done that and made a stronger point about SSM inter-domain maybe we wouldn\u0027t have had the propagation of so many SSM unaware applications so I think that\u0027s it\u0027s something that we can provide great value in is given clear direction so that\u0027s why I think it it\u0027s important to not be wishy-washy and say you shouldn\u0027t do this unless you do do it I think making a stronger statement of use SSM inter-domain or do not use ASM entertain you know as a best practice I think there\u0027s a greater value in that than to just simply say don\u0027t do this unless you have to yeah stick with us yeah so first of all I think it\u0027s a good document and we need something like this and yeah maybe it should be that strong I mean there will always be some people that for some reason that first reason might want you say yes I\u0027m into domain but they could still have a very strong pretty massive saying you should not I think the biggest problem is application vendors then the network and the host stacks mostly support are in period three and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:42",
    "text": "MLD version two today but those applications don\u0027t support it and it\u0027s kind of hard for us an enterprise or ISP whatever to go into application vendors and say you need to you know change your application and maybe if you have a strong message that might might help make it easier to come in supplication developers you know I just had a quick scan through the agenda for an art area session this week but I don\u0027t see one I could contact the ADEs the art area Radiesse and see what they think about engaging with that lot sooner I\u0027m more for deprecating endearment completely removing it shutting it down I hate it it I mean half of my bugs in from vendors are usually related to multicast so as little as possible code master cost code in the codebase would make smile would make my life easier and and just to be clear you said deprecated for inter-domain or for everything the questions the question is what we would actually do to achieve that it\u0027s not about making things like MSTP historic because that can be used within a site potentially so I think we need to be clear out what that means we can say if we as a crew to agree that how do we express it in the document this is Greg as chair otherwise we don\u0027t have a police to enforce anything anyway yeah so what we do is we position and and we can always fall back to that because people come and ask what to do read the dot it\u0027s there so deprecated inter-domain I mean that I\u0027ve been on that side since Lindy and I wrote that as a draft back in 2003 and unfortunately embedded RP took off and things kept growing now we\u0027re back to this again and all the same problems exists and the only resistance I\u0027ve heard for inter-domain was well it might be hard that\u0027s not a reason why you don\u0027t do the right thing if there\u0027s applications that absolutely require it let\u0027s hear about them but the only ones I know that absolutely required are really Enterprise like you know Walt garden applications we don\u0027t see this stuff across the internet at large and the whole idea have this bi-directional broadcast domain was you know a cute idea in 89 and it\u0027s not the model that we\u0027re trying to finish today no meeting requirements today yeah so there I\u0027ve spoken sunny is on from DPS I know MSTP is widely used maybe it\u0027s only in China I don\u0027t know who the other country he saying is or is not widely used as widely used in China but I don\u0027t know the other country is the situation so I think that the SSM has important and the model voice SMS important tool but it will not kill the MSTP or the impact "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:44",
    "text": "energy so I have a sim opening with Steiger and the braggers though I think the word recommend is better and stick with us I actually might support deprecating MSTP if you take crap you feel decrepit ASM inter-domain then they might as well get rid of MSTP as well we haven\u0027t you know we haven\u0027t solution for any cost RP with him that has been around for maybe 10 years and not many implementations and that\u0027s better than them STP if you want to do any cost repeat within your domain so don\u0027t really see much use for MSTP yeah can you so you say it\u0027s better how is it better because it seems like it\u0027s the same thing only a different protocol it\u0027s better in the sense that you\u0027re not trying to you know send data packet over TCP s you know some MSTP implementation you selling data packets of the pen registers but also you you don\u0027t have to it\u0027s easier to manage it the Annie Kuster P thing is a much simpler protocol it\u0027s basically just relaying register messages you don\u0027t have to configure MSTP pairings and and policy for your pairings and yeah don\u0027t you have to do all those things for PIM you have to say what are your other our peace inside your domain but you kind of I mean I recommend it is that the config of our piece and if you do that within your domain it\u0027s not that hard to say konishi router so each of your piece that this is all my any concert piece I mean if you want to do ASM in intradomain and you want it to scale then I would say that any cost RP solution with them is the simplest thing because that may be something we might not be something we could mention in the document yeah I mean I would I would I wouldn\u0027t make a mean just I would maybe disagree I I think it\u0027s essentially identical anycast with them versus anycast with MSD p1 is sending it over TCP packets sending it over pen registers but essentially they\u0027re operating in the same way you can figure them roughly the same way and the fact that you can configure a policy with one and not the other you can kind of do it with the but I don\u0027t know I think that\u0027s that\u0027s it\u0027s still within the purview of intra domains I don\u0027t think it really matters I don\u0027t know if there is anything procedurally within the ITF in this timeless ation process when you polish Dakin as experimental where there is a time after which if it doesn\u0027t catch on and get elevated it should just be killed or whether there\u0027s twenty-year-old experimental RFC is out there that have been experimental for twenty years and will be experimental "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:45",
    "text": "for another 20 years well that\u0027s one yeah that\u0027s one option we have but people can still use it even if it\u0027s a story who comes okay sorry Mike McBride I\u0027d missed our last exchange in the notes so it\u0027s just the way it goes so I just wanted to applaud this effort it\u0027s really good timing as I mentioned last the ITF for the last year so I\u0027ve been working on some emerging technologies like virtual route virtuality and things like that and in some cases they\u0027re looking at multicast to do things like you know each view you look at in a virtual reality it\u0027s a new SSM group some kind of weird things and so there there are some new applications that are being used maybe even autonomous vehicles I\u0027m not sure that we are planning to use multicast the timing may be really quite good although I don\u0027t know if they care about ITF but it would be good to put this down now so we Hilly\u0027s point it to him what\u0027s the transport what\u0027s the transport to the end said virtual routing virtual reality sorry AR VR yeah yeah not virtual routing so in this application application a central location like data center to multiple scene while a presenting amount on 5g scenario script so yeah there\u0027s a lot of scenarios like maybe we even need to do a document on that in this group actually but yeah so it\u0027s it\u0027s a there\u0027s a lot of different in healthcare and all sorts of applications starting to ramp up the use of applications like virtuality so anyway it\u0027s a it\u0027s I think it\u0027s needed it\u0027s about time great great comments please hopefully they make it into the minutes it\u0027s vodka Deutsche Telekom we have quite a large IPTV deployment in the network using nowadays SSM but in the the old product also used ASM and it took us quite some headache to get our network part of the core at least and since moving to SSM the operations department has much stable more stable network so from our perspective the support for duplication so sorry I was gonna ask I\u0027m going to guess the reason you started with ASM was because that\u0027s what the application did and yes how difficult was it to get an SSM aware application the the application didn\u0027t didn\u0027t change we did aesthetic mapping at the edge in order to get from ASM to SSM but yeah I think that mean the document we could choose to include guidance on how to migrate from your current ASM position to the holy goodness of SSM yeah and SSM mapping can play a role where is this still a set-top box problem yeah okay that\u0027s that\u0027s my take as well but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:49",
    "text": "there\u0027s like the state of set-top boxes is still that they don\u0027t really support this it\u0027s improving anyway because that that\u0027s part of the reason here I would like this document it gives you another hammer to hit the set-top box the vendors over and to say you need to support SSM stop doing ASM only well to be quite precise it\u0027s IGMP version three that the new set of supports yeah so therefore there\u0027s no need for ASM anymore that\u0027s probably the only must we were put in the document is that hosts musts for our GMP v3 but I mean we told the secret we we failed on this so many times right so these these customers get our setup box supports IGMP v3 now we\u0027re done right are you sending Eskimo G joins what right so it\u0027s yeah it\u0027s the only half way there you\u0027re only halfway there by supporting IGMP because you actually have to use it yes I mean we can still kind of you know write an RFC one for wonderful SSM mapping I mean we\u0027ve thought it would go away so we didn\u0027t write one but temporary fix stay with us yeah so I think it might be good to mention SSM mapping the setup box problem yeah it\u0027s our Jim Pearson three and you want to send us comedy joints but you also need some kind of discovery mechanism right where the setup box actually can learn what the source addressed to Judy so there is some application infrastructure was something you kind of need so Michael Abramson hey I can I can tell you one vendor that I had to go out like an experimental box and they had a configuration file where we configured the s and so if you had a program lit like a channel list this was a setup box for TV you could not have SSM with two different sources where which had the channels so it was sourcing the channel you only have one because they probably just like slap this on at later dates that they\u0027re actual like there there was no s in the aim the actual application they just did the mapping in the device its SSM mapping but in the set-top box J holin the SDP does support SSM so you can I mean there\u0027s there\u0027s a RFC about it it\u0027s not the main SDP one yeah so we\u0027ll just take tour listen yet so it maybe maybe instead of having a draft about you know SSM mapping the draft should really be on the scope of where do source addresses come from right and then basically the real solution is they come from the application and the sucking solution is they come from a poor agent many you know and overpaid network administrator and edge devices right so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:49",
    "text": "that way you know we don\u0027t even have a separate document that people may look at as the ultimate truth but we have a section that\u0027s really you know just saying this sucks the other section is better should that be part of this effort not well I don\u0027t know if you know what this effort is because you just walked in yet or a separate document exactly because I just walked in that I\u0027ll provide your opinion on the mailing list so some before we move on one one last question now so just by a sign of hands who would be in favor of the draft saying having strong recommendations to use SSM and not ASM interdomain versus deprecating ASM for inter-domain so so just a quick show of hands a non-binding show of hands recommend recommending I\u0027m sorry but there\u0027s a contradiction here is what what is the standard if what is the standard for inter-domain I mean v6 yes we have embedded RP we can say that before we four we don\u0027t have to miss that discussion but we all right that it\u0027s yeah that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to make that\u0027s what we\u0027re trying to codify and document here but we already don\u0027t have a standardized MSTP is experimental indeed but that could be made historic so raise your hand if you think recommendation and leave it at that okay there\u0027s a couple of hands probably six or seven hands okay probably about six or seven hands or so for strong recommendation how about for deprecating okay it\u0027s roughly the same so we\u0027re about split fifty-fifty five things eight to five in sometimes the first one from here with who won the first option was 80 second option was five so it\u0027s not exactly convincing okay and you counted us - oh no I wasn\u0027t looking yeah so 778 yeah so it\u0027s about half there\u0027s a yeah so what was split I think it was roughly roughly yeah but we didn\u0027t count that diligently for a 50/50 so let\u0027s take this to the list but please express opinions on the list all right and thank you Tim and Michael all right who Toshi "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:05",
    "text": "okay thank you so this is again the Empress first into the revision and the version number is now 17 next freeze so the currently so Carrie actually sent a mail to the mailing is that he summarized changes from the previous version and he mentioned that he summarized the changes from version 16 to burgeon 70 but actually it\u0027s not true he summarized all modifications from version 15 to 17 actually so totally he mentioned about changes from the last from the 15th versions draft and this special thanks to Stig we had several lots of comments and we addressed his comment and Levi stir plums 15 to 16 and 16 to 17 so mainly the changes made for a tutorial but the qualification is of course it\u0027s really important so I we can just summarize how we change from the version 15 so we revised the interaction to clarify the criteria for Korea and so on and because we miss something sometimes we missed discussion description about land book point so we clarified the empress support for by laughs of louder all on the point and also we had some well we should clarify that mass must be a capital mass or that must be kept out should so we had some difficulty to distinguish master and Kepler muscle kept I should so we scanned and the collected such kind of deviations and the broaden the description over circumstance in which Allah fly may be sent before the Emperor\u0027s reaches for stop louder this is actually the clarification for the considerable el arts and also expanded on the clarity discovery on section 3 which is a packet which describes the packet formats of our dating theories with the message and the 400 but it keep tlbs so mainly we clarified the LRS situation of getting the embody two theories expertise and also ecology the this is just a typo we collected a minimum length requirement in Section three and also the in the falling code item in Section three added an extra feature of the result Ellicott Lynch and section four point two we mentioned how to going to interpret the meaning of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:05",
    "text": "outgoing interface in a time noisy section but we also clarified in the section four point two which is studied from the talk about outer interface and we collected a clarify the steps which by the for section four to two and these changes including clarification of the handling or the other main prohibits foreign code and in Section four point five we correctly the description for the number of offs field actually the previous version the version 15 was not really clear for the elimination of the number of hops so we specify clearly this kind of a statement decreases number hops by number of the standardized from work that were just written in a lip line minus one the minus one is in this expression accounts for the additional sunrise Mossberg appended by the gateways outer because the if you the emptor is curly or request is leached to the gateway which may be a gateway or proxy or network and so on then the disk a wave bleep right to the Emperor\u0027s clients and then he continuously start the new clearly always request message toward the center wall on the pointer so in that case the number of hosts must be decreased collector II so we created explain actually we already explained this kind with scenarios but we didn\u0027t mention about how we can just change the number of hops specified in our regional header so we clarify these points and added more specific details and rewarding Corrections in Section eight point one and eight point two go to the next so this is a change from sixteen to seventeen actually I already mentioned about these changes of raw in the last embody meeting so we didn\u0027t the previous calculation for the clearly alive by the time the current calculation method for the query alibi time was not wrong but because of the politics 2008 recommends a clock at time so we changed a little bit about a formula for getting the query alive our time so this let call us description was changed from the version 16 to 17 this is a looks like a big change in but even though you used previous securely alive our time calculation method the same result will be given this is just to support a newer POSIX recommendation so next so that\u0027s for that\u0027s all for all changes from the version 15 so I think we can just start the second working group Lascaux hey Thank You Tasha just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:09",
    "text": "just for background this draft several years ago was was submitted to ie SG it got kicked back and so it\u0027s gone through several revisions and it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s in second working group last call the first one like I said it was last year what we really need is just comments back from folks in the working group so please take a look and at the very least you know mention whether you do or do not support the advancement of this we\u0027d like to get a stronger consensus than just just Stig and with that Stig just quickly I think this is you know really important it\u0027s been taking way too long there\u0027s implementations of this you need this fried people six and just hope it\u0027ll be published as soon as possible thank you speaking of which would anyone be interested in document shepherding this raised his eyebrows yeah thank you yes so if there are any if there is anybody who\u0027s ever been interested in getting becoming a part of the process document shepherding is is an excellent opportunity so please reach out to Greg or me just let you know it\u0027s actually very simple there\u0027s a template you follow certain questions have to be answered you take it through make sure that it\u0027s are clean and then you work with the authors and Rev while it\u0027s in the queue it\u0027s not that tough but it\u0027s a great way to kind of see how the process works great thank you okay thank you and where that second working group last call I believe goes through next week there\u0027s another week and a half or so left on that alright Jake if you want to come on up this these are the the did you revise it send me a new document or you say uh John got pulled away by a network emergency so I don\u0027t have any updates from him okay all right Club so just a little background on this there was at in Chicago you you ran a hackathon for SSM and you ran another hackathon over the weekend this time with involving spring and v6 so we asked Jake to talk about how the how the hackathon went and provide us some feedback yes so um so I\u0027ve managed to continue working a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:10",
    "text": "little bit on the AMT implementation the one that was that was open-source some time ago of 2008 or something and I extended it with ipv6 support and this is the gateway or the relay or both both both there they\u0027re working together and doing IP six and in fact I would like to walk back something I said last time about not liking the interfaces on the gateway I tried to find a better solution but I\u0027m happier with it now so anyway the the the spring part in particular is more kind of you know John\u0027s particular network he wanted he wanted to do spring so this was just a you know something we could do in into one day kind of hackathon scenario to try it out I\u0027m not sure how generally applicable it will be I think a better solution longer-term was probably your or something but but the same idea is is pretty simple it\u0027s let\u0027s see go ahead and do the next slide out just yeah yeah this is just since since Chicago I\u0027ve done a few things in AMT and MC proxy and those are still just all open source I think MC proxy is GPL the three maybe but the AMT is BSD and yeah go ahead next slide um can you just mention that you you you said you added v6 support what was your experience and adding the six support as an implementer adding v6 support to something that had v4 only was it a long arduous process or you know a couple hours I I was hoping for a couple of hours and and it was really more like two weeks you know some of that was had I memorized all the RFC\u0027s I\u0027m sure it would\u0027ve gone quicker you know there were a few surprises that took you know somewhere between a few hours in a day each to debug but it perhaps they should not have been surprised as you know just I mean you know joins have to have a source address that\u0027s link local we knew right so yeah they\u0027re a number of things just along those lines but it really the you know it wasn\u0027t that bad the the well so the raw packets also or are different in IP forum v6 so that\u0027s another thing to watch out for you have to you don\u0027t get so that AMT wants you to start with the IP start with the two so the the payload "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:11",
    "text": "of the AMT data contains the packets starting at the IP layer for both v4 and v6 the v4 IP raw socket gives you the IP header the v6 IP or a socket does not so this was also a surprise that took some refactoring but you know it\u0027s all achievable and not that bad so might just be good to you know note some of the things you came across as bread comes for future implementers who need to do the same thing because I\u0027m not sure there are many other implementations on the vendor side for v6 AMT yeah yeah well right I I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s there are any when I tried the when I tried to configure it in Cisco I got a syntax here so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s there or not actually right now I didn\u0027t pursue it that hard because I knew I needed this anyway and I\u0027ll save you the time of trying in the Junos thank you yeah but yeah I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s not that bad it does work fine you know it\u0027s a hack around a little bit of packet formatting so at the hackathon it was some setup time this was the first time I did a an AMT gateway relay device on the same on the same note and that that went fine the and then I inserted the the sort of shim injector that would so segment routing at this is a contact change a little bit but you just kind of stick a header in there and the network can unwrap it right and that gets the forward along the path that\u0027s chosen so this was a requirement just a question way when you\u0027ve got a read the Gateway in the same device the AMT joined effectively that comes into that relay doesn\u0027t have a relay associated with it so how did that device note which relay then descend so that\u0027s that\u0027s in my list of extensions I think that you want to you want to do the right thing to do or a way to do it maybe is is to do multiple gateways with source filtering right so you wanna at least that\u0027s what I\u0027ve been that\u0027s what I\u0027ve been thinking so you want to have in general you\u0027re gonna need to have so when you use AMT for replication you\u0027re going to need to have an association between the source the the the relay that you need to connect to and the source address right in some form right so if it\u0027s at the application side that can come in the content descriptor some sort right you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:13",
    "text": "get source group right but then you don\u0027t get the then well but if you do it that way you don\u0027t get you don\u0027t get multicast across the network right so you get you then would connect your AMT gateway to the to the relay associated with that source well where\u0027s the Association come from right if it\u0027s at the application layer when I did the content descriptor offline you know out-of-band I can get all the information when I get it inside my routed path I don\u0027t have that capability what\u0027s been done in the past is a DNS entry we look up at the source and evidene s entry that shows the resource OSI with that yeah that\u0027s kind of universal solution would work throughout or within a domain or you know often in demos like this it\u0027s hardwired you just stick it in and know what\u0027s really to go Thea so it was hardwired in this demo what we\u0027re doing is is publishing a recipe for how to connect to our traffic we would it you know I think that standard to do that would maybe be a fine idea where you know we will say we will publish a sort of list of source multicast traffic available through relay discoverable with the source IP so that\u0027s the that\u0027s the general strategy that we\u0027re pursuing we\u0027re inviting just like a static list like that or you have it in in DNS well if we can so if we could do MT over DNS then that would make it easy or even a group source pair they can be entered that way in that you have a relay associated with it and you get that as a result and that could be done in the path and rotted device like that relay gateway c\u0027mon device ready sure right and that\u0027s that\u0027s where it would belong whatever the solution is I think there are several different ones including static mapping list or yeah we could we could we could do a DNS based solution I think if anybody\u0027s interested that\u0027s kind of that\u0027s uh that\u0027s kind of the easy part or an easy part at least for when we\u0027re talking about when we\u0027re still talking about convinced individual networks to connect to our sources right so if there if we end up with any consensus on the best way to do that then great you know we\u0027ll go with it we\u0027re very agnostic as to how that works we just want to you know want to get our traffic out there if we had an Ambo and then we would use it you know failing that we will act whatever it works yeah so that\u0027s kind of at least that\u0027s my position on it so basically what John wanted is to not run him he had some technical difficulties with it and he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:16",
    "text": "also couldn\u0027t he didn\u0027t think he could get EMT into a CMS cmts within a few years but that he could get it in his EMT gateway gateway yeah but that he could get it yeah well sure we can go to the next one but that he could get it within the cable modems so he has an easier time with those so that\u0027s what we that\u0027s what we spun up at the hackathon this time the this yellow box on the on the right side here is the is the gateway relay node the idea would be that there there\u0027s multiple C MTS\u0027s in the real network and each one has a different segment routing header that you would use that you would associate with it any joins that come from that source IP the the network operator would configure the the mapping from from remote gateway IP to the appropriate segment routing header and then you just replicate it once per destination inside the relay and that\u0027s the extra hack that I added I\u0027m not again I\u0027m not sure how generally applicable this is there might be somebody else that would like to do it this way while we\u0027re we for beer to finish or you deployed but essentially I mean this this part of it was you know a half days effort and it\u0027s not it you know you can clean it up more and make it more efficient you could spend a couple days on that but that\u0027s again you know this is this is low-hanging fruit at this point for for kind of achieving this kind of deployed then if you want to and okay you know from our point of view really this is the way we send our traffic so as long as you can receive it then we don\u0027t care what happens inside your network so if you want to do it this way fine I\u0027ll give you the source but at Arles yeah so is there an AMT IGMP join being sent from the AMT gateway in the home router yes so the the the receiver doesn\u0027t nee to join the home router that is running so this was on open wrt and it was running MC proxy with with the AMT gateway that gateway was configured with to know the the remote relay right so and this is something you can do in the network you can figure the the home router to understand what relays it should talk to by source right and so that join that joint is configured to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:17",
    "text": "talk to to talk to this relay and then this gateway is configured to talk to that really so there must be some trick on how the relay would know how high GMP joins on the same downstream would only need to be sent I guess as one copy that magically from the cable modem would be you know be able to be intercepted in capsulated right for the to inject the shim and to only replicate once for the downstream yeah for downstream yeah yeah yeah that\u0027s the that\u0027s the part we added that was a you know a couple hours effort how do you identify from from different home routers in the AMD relay which of them belong to a single downstream lookup table config a statically configured lookup table configured here at the relay so there\u0027s a so you have the remote IP address from that gateway and so this was an extra hack this is not there is no standard about this right and if again if there\u0027s interest then we could put it I\u0027m not sure long-term this is the right solution this is just what he wanted to do to get it deployed well I mean other solutions like this like option 82 at least we have a signaling so I\u0027m not sure if it\u0027s operationally feasible to see at this table right so if there is any trick on how the cable modem and insert something that basically you know gives this information like this option 82 then you could get rid of this table right sure yeah so that was because it seems like some lightweight amount of work is possible for the cable modem right so that\u0027s yeah to figure out what the best thing is to minimize the administrative work on the relay right yeah you\u0027re right I mean the the that that part again this is the part that was added and it was low effort for his specific solution so if he had wanted a you know a different kind of look up from remote IP lookup and that would have been fine it\u0027s just I think that\u0027s just the way that networks as a UDP emptied and kept saying downstream it\u0027s still normally empty in the upstream it\u0027s just this new segment routing header and then that just basically strip segment routing got the native multicast Center on the downstream yeah yeah so right and and so it and we just do it once per destination even if there\u0027s multiple of the cmts that can\u0027t weigh empty he didn\u0027t say it might be a constraint on upgrading the versions I\u0027m not really sure I wish he was here because the assured me he would be and then yeah but duty calls I suppose no I mean let me know right I may be able to help figuring out how we could yeah I can put you in touch if you can yeah I mean maybe he\u0027d be willing to pick a different vendor rather than putting this in it that\u0027s basically what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:19",
    "text": "he has to live with just rather the the brainstorm how we could automate discovering which type of you know segment routing header to do based on you know the met get getting rid of the manual met in table again beer is probably a better choice it\u0027s just not not there yet and he he wants to be ready to go whenever you know because even if you know when you have twenty thousand downstream even if you can just do the you know your 50 Meg\u0027s for your favorite five channels this can be significant right how close you can put the MT relay to the cmts right if isn\u0027t the same pop and you\u0027ve got basically that they can read gigabit local Ethernet links and basically maybe it\u0027s I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s good I\u0027m just saying that you know the good enough is often the the enemy of the better and so we should be prepared for dealing with it right and then vice versa you know it\u0027s a faster deployment sometimes this is more important so it really just depends but again it\u0027s like I said this this is really just a sort of network specific implementation I think that there are probably better ideas but you know many vendors in that cmts space right and it\u0027s basically in the u.s. right okay so I\u0027m a customer right so I\u0027m interested and basically you know all the other MSO might simply pick up the same solution if it gets multicast you know better into these networks right so I\u0027m never you know just again text because of hex just right fair enough I will encourage people I\u0027ll try a little harder to encourage people to look for a better answer so this but this is what we we tried out just to make sure it was something that was doable for him I think he\u0027s willing to explore other options just you know this was the the one that matched with the way he wanted to do his network anyway like he cares more about IP six the new have multicast at this point but that may change any day but I mean you can still kind of bring beer in if you try it for example to terminate vir one hop before the CMPs ride it we\u0027re basically having to do the workarounds to keep the CMPs simple question is what about the rest of the distribution network right I mean that\u0027s what we\u0027ve typically done in the past as well and yeah this is a part of what drove this was what\u0027s already deployed and what is easy for him to to deal with today he doesn\u0027t mind running an extra box but changing versions on his deployed systems is maybe harder depending yeah thank you anyway so the the AMT itself I think is getting to you know I wouldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:21",
    "text": "want to run something on it where I\u0027m I\u0027m on the hook for refunds but not yet but with six months work I would definitely I think that would be fine with too much two months work out probably this is kind of my list for most useful things to do to it and you know I think that stability and and make sure it\u0027s really not just interoperable with the existing solutions but actually following the spec is is the first and most important thing I\u0027d like to have I\u0027d like to be running multiple gateways for to do kind of the source mapping so that the you know you configure a gateway to talk to a relay and to ignore certain sources you automate that and and hook that up hook it up to support them you know I think I high performance for during path I haven\u0027t I haven\u0027t really stressed the the performance on this I mean if you really need a high performance you can buy the Cisco unless you need IP six or maybe maybe by then it well but you know obviously at some point you might need the high performance path that\u0027s going to be you know month and a half but entirely doable it certainly right now it\u0027s like single threaded live event based forwarding so you know whichever box you\u0027re running whatever that can support is kind of what you\u0027re what you\u0027re looking at there but yeah I think it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good next step toward being a true truly deployable system that that can actually meet the needs for hopefully everybody who wants it and if I get time I will be working on some of this in the in the months to come but that\u0027s a that\u0027s an if and may depend on on you know how likely it seems to that it will get used so yeah any other question great thank you for telling us about it and any other any plans for future hackathons the hackathons one of my favorite parts so I mean I always love to take a couple days it might not be the last it might not be the last I might be skipping a couple a I plan to be busy this year but but as soon as I can I\u0027ll come back and do something right I might so when one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:22",
    "text": "last thing Mike do you want to come up and talk and time wise you\u0027re it so and and you have the next working group after this so take as much time as you are willing to take from your own working group give yourself the hook yeah this would be very quick actually and sorry this wasn\u0027t something I requested it was just a last-minute thing because something Alvaro attended this week so there\u0027s a draft that a few of us have in this working group with regards to multicast over Wi-Fi the draft hasn\u0027t been updated for over a year it\u0027s been low on our priorities we\u0027ve had other things to do but in this draft there are things listed of why multicast is a problem over Wi-Fi and why people use unicast instead things like lower about low reliability no acknowledgments low data rates and just things like that and my co-author Charlie in the meantime he met with a lot of people and I Triple E who have also been working on this problem and within the internet area he submitted a draft with some of these guys along the same lines of the draft that we have here with a few more details of what\u0027s going on in the I Triple E so as far as I know right now in ITF there\u0027s two documents dealing with multicast over Wi-Fi and in talking to Lenny we still think it\u0027s good to have that kind of a document here at least describing the problems we may or mean well remind us what those two what\u0027s the difference between those two and what working groups those two are in yeah so the differences are and I\u0027m not sure actually why there is one also in the internet area the differences are that they took pretty much what we have in our draft and included much more details of what\u0027s been discussed with multicast and Wi-Fi in the I Triple E which is worth the defining the the Wi-Fi specs so that\u0027s really the difference and your dock was considerations requirements what problem statement problems they have and so overall he had a meeting Saturday I was not able to attend but just wanted to see what he if anything more that you heard Cervelo ever thought a row needy so on saturday we have the immense pleasure of spending seven hours with the I Triple E we have this periodic iesg II I Triple E or ITF AAA actually coordination meeting and so we discuss whatever yeah how what do we need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:23",
    "text": "coordinate and so one of the topics that came up was multicast and wireless and honestly the the session wasn\u0027t too well organized there was one question that was asked what I feel like it should be what should we need what should we do and I guess some pointed out well both I guess sucks on the wireless interfaces and the actually said yep that\u0027s it so the draft that that you\u0027re talking about the Charlie and Dorothy and Carlin somewhere else published talks about some considerations so you\u0027re gonna do multicast over 802 these are some things you need to think about in other words it doesn\u0027t necessarily solve any problems it just says well this is what you\u0027re stuck with now the thing is that Wireless is not just Wi-Fi right it\u0027s not just 802 11 and many of us have the side protocols or have assumed that protocols that we designed for Ethernet work on wireless differences maybe we thought that a to 11 there\u0027s other problems for they go to 15 for that the other stuff that IOT uses and things of that part of the discussion that was kind of interesting was that some of the people that have been working on six low and sixth ish talked about some of the enhancers that they have made at the IP layer to make it better so instead of waiting and hoping for the I Triple E to magically fix all of 802 they said well you know we\u0027re just gonna go do some things so for example in six slow when 6lowpan existed they did some proxy they changed they were discovery for ipv6 they did some proxying as they were discovery now that is helping some of the broadcast traffic that has to go on in there so one\u0027s just as well as maybe those things apply to other layers right not just for IOT right so what came out of the discussion was there are some specific things that we know don\u0027t work and that we should go fix for example that W section 436 according to the tests that they came up with about 20% of the time doesn\u0027t work so there\u0027s a really high probability that you sit in this room and you get a duplicate address just because it just doesn\u0027t work over the wireless interface there was no specific answer what we came out of the meeting with is yes we need to coordinate better return everybody in the ADF but no one said yet we\u0027re gonna go fix it okay and you know maybe it\u0027ll - is not what\u0027s working what\u0027s broken maybe we made the wrong assumptions and so you know right now we\u0027re sort of with this impasse maybe I\u0027m an assumption maybe they made about assumptions maybe do both in MCN "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:23",
    "text": "over - I don\u0027t know so when we do want to do is you\u0027re there\u0027s a problem statement that you wrote there\u0027s some considerations but you know we can go back and forth forever or we could actually do something so one of the things that that we wanted to over that meeting is you\u0027ll get some people together I don\u0027t necessarily call it the site team people together to actually work and talk about solutions to go look at the solutions that exist in the IOT 802 54 part of the world to get other people that do radio stuff that maybe understand how the radios and the wireless stuff work better and you guys the sand multicast needs and broadcasts and stuff like that better and you know figure out what can you things we need to do do or we just do them with able to stuff or is there something that we can do to progress this and not just have me and other people seven hours looking at I should believe people in pointing the finger back and forth yes we\u0027re just not gonna go anywhere with that so there\u0027s some people that were that meeting that working the ATF as well that you\u0027re interested in working that I see here but that you know could collaborate some of you guys and again I don\u0027t necessarily call this a design team but if you want I can get you guys together and introductions and we can go from there Bernardo\u0027s uc3m just to comment that we presented last year last ATF sorry in internet area also experimental work that a colleague of mine did on 11 AAA is evaluating how multicast the different solutions work in a testbed with up to 30 notes I think so these guys I\u0027m not involved in that work but these guys are willing to to work in any air for like evaluating any solution over that desperate that is available so in case you wanna check that kind of does have a level 4 for that sure that\u0027s great over again so send me email like now if you really want to do something this and maybe in the next couple of hours I can sit somebody out to some other break or something and then you go do what you go do so good yes thank you @j Colin were there a list of solutions that you talked about or tried or I mean is that written somewhere I wrote Earth Anna again so the the minutes that we\u0027re just looking at them of course we see nothing the guys have been working with 2:15 for in 6 th at 6 lo yes there\u0027s a couple of RC or drafts they\u0027ve been looking at they\u0027ve been been working on so we can get those one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:25",
    "text": "of the things that they also mentioned that the ITF guys working on that I mentioned as well as if they thought that you know this could be applicable in other places not just 54 but 11 or something else and then it would be good for them to get more feedback as well right because it should be applicable it could be that you guys look at it and say well yeah there were 54 but if you tweak this it might work for other numbers as well so no but I can find out kind of Banaras again and I think that I think that they in the other day that you mentioned there are some I don\u0027t know solution but doesn\u0027t consideration I think from what I recall them how to configure different things if an IP protocols to better work in which they thanks Mike in Ellora yeah so just to conclude with regards to what needs to happen in in Bondi I think those discussions probably would be best to happen but I still per see a need for the draft that we already have here that\u0027s been accepted as working group to t be brought back to life be updated Torres made some comments previously about what needs to be added so I\u0027ll commit to do that finally and then we\u0027ll go from there great look forward to that work okay any other comments statements all right with that M Bundy is done you\u0027ll see you in Singapore and it\u0027s time for pin and now these are blue sheets for pin please sign them this is a separate working group meeting so don\u0027t don\u0027t assume that you just signed some bone D so you don\u0027t need to assign sign these please make sure you\u0027ve signed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:51",
    "text": "sure if they actually provided yeah don\u0027t see my yeah so welcome to everyone if you need some note-taker you would often use the same one I think for Buffum Bundy and PIM but you need someone else you think you can do it okay my kiss mike is scribing anyone wanna do the jabber yeah okay thanks for got a jabber scrap okay thanks let\u0027s get started so this is PIM working group meeting please find the blue sheets again at the pin once this is a note well it\u0027s the same as you saw other in the embodied session hey this is the agenda any comments on the agenda does it look this look okay all right so I\u0027ll talk a little bit about the working group status you have a pin the yang model that we requested publication oh and March I don\u0027t think much has happened to that it\u0027s in that publication queue there is some there\u0027s a new proposal and it\u0027s maybe more than a proposal for how to do configuration state in turn and configuration state versus operational configuration state one question is better that the PIM model should be updated to to follow that that\u0027s something we need to discuss a think with our ad and it depends on whether other other young models for routing like interface model and other things will be updated to use use that there\u0027s the source discovery draft that is in the publication requested q now there\u0027s explicit tracking draft that has been more or less dead for a couple of years hoping maybe we can make some progress with with that it\u0027s only some minor changes the thing that I needed for the PIM explicit tracking yeah since right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:53",
    "text": "here it\u0027s actually are you planning to to update this sorry yes actually just I need to say solely for the delayed response but actually according to the previous discussion mainly raised by follow a do IDs we changed intended status from the proposed standard to experimental traffic so the Civil War many something like tone for explaining some function or providing some guidelines should be changed and actually you have been now talking with one Cisco by and he is now interested in changing something like tone to suit the experiment documentation so will revise the draft soon and maybe and do I hope next idea meeting I can present device draft okay thank you a lot of working group draft is the multiple upstream requirements that sin that has been kind of not updated in a little while but there\u0027s a new update now and we\u0027ll talk about that later this meeting you also had a draft on dr load-balancing that we requested publication oh i think three years ago and alia that was the ad back then she had multiple comments and issues with a draft and the offers didn\u0027t didn\u0027t update the draft so it kind of died but there\u0027s a new revision now the first want to get this done and here\u0027s a new revision that was just posted so we should probably maybe next next meeting have some presentation of that what changes have been made and see if the working group is still interested in in in getting that published so probably have to do another last call and so on if well first of all see if there\u0027s interest and if there\u0027s interest discuss the changes and then do a new last call if we agree that this is something you want to do but yeah if you like have a look at the last version and see what you think you also have a your improvement draft so there\u0027s no update now blind know there are some ideas and thoughts about some changes to go in there and some plans to update it before the next ITF so I\u0027ll probably discuss it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:55",
    "text": "in Singapore and then today we will talk about I am p.m. of the young model and they have an MS TP young model that I think is more or less done but they need people to review it so please go and look at the models see if it makes sense if you\u0027re a vendor does it match your implementations are able to support it before a provider ice P does it I love what you need to configure and monitor and manage MSTP and you\u0027ll probably ask on the mailing list sometime after this meeting to see if people are okay with our working group last call if you have any comments on that right now please you\u0027re welcome to come up to the mic but the otherwise we\u0027ll just check on the list so that\u0027s the status any comments or questions alright okay I think they\u0027ll start for the first presentation and which is the multiple uplink requirements multiple upstream okay my name is Bernardo City first of all apologies for not having updated the draft for a while so I will excite this yes to remind a bit the the cause of the document the purpose is to define the functionality that I am PNL the proxy with multiple interfaces should surely should support for different in different scenarios and actually also to commend those scenarios were those this MLV idmp proximal with multiple absolute interfaces are I require so the content of the draft is basically a prime statement so why do we need to to document this to support proxy with multiple upstream interfaces some a scenarios have applicability we will see more about that in the next slide then requirements started from those applicability scenarios that this upstream with this proxy with multiple our sip interfaces should support and some security considerations next slide please so we cover different scenarios of applicability in in the document I will not go into all the details but just least those in in the slide for example mult multi cos wholesale offer for SEO services which you have for example increment operator and alternative operators providers and how to could use a proxy with multiple upstream "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:56",
    "text": "interfaces and what are the requirements imposed by this scenario we have also the scenario for multicast resiliency where you when you may want to have multiple providers and I have multiple option interfaces and use those to provide additional resiliency you may do the same for load balancing to reduce the load on the metro network by having multiple interfaces so on and so forth and we also consider him in all these scenarios we have consideration for fixed and mobile networks next slide please so on as I mentioned before on all these scenarios we tried to identify requirements the details are in the in the document but here in the table we just summarized for each of the scenarios that are covered in the draft the different requirements and impact that it may have or those may have for the multiple upstream interfaces support for the proxy next one please so this is just a summary of the story of the document the key point is that in this revision we addressed the comments that we received from the previous version basically the most critical one was the adding some some text on consideration on SSN ASM impact for the different scenarios as well as some other things that we fixed so we believe that the document is revving in the sense of identifying doing that you have identifying the requirements of course then there will be the need for the solution document solution document to to work on that but I will be a different document for the working look to to work on so we believe that the document is ready and what we assume could we could do is to get some ore that we will benefit from having this additional reviews from from people in the working group and I know it\u0027s a part of working Google Scholar before that\u0027s up to the working group to decide but we believe that the document is is ready for for making products so any question or comments how many people have read this draft can you raise your hand if you read this person or maybe even that recent version on the draft yeah the multiple uplink draft have you how many people have read that see like three people I read it perhaps Oh plus well myself and gave six people all the offers have read the draft all right so yeah since you\u0027ve read it do you think it\u0027s it might be ready for last call or do you think feelers a need for some additional work before before that this for me as a regular participants it seems really complete online come Fink or anything in particular to even had so right so for Law School "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:03",
    "text": "yeah how many people support doing a last call at this points sorry Jake Allen I mean there\u0027s like a couple of you know Ayana considerations to be completed right I mean there\u0027s a couple like obvious tenets are you gonna rev it and then last caller need a feedback round I guess the question is whether you know there\u0027s like fairly big changes needed or if it\u0027s a minor stuff okay yeah support matter yeah so I think we can do that as part of the last column if that seems reasonable yeah all right great thanks so I\u0027ll do a last call after this meeting but yeah it\u0027s great that these some people read it and looking forward to getting some comments our last calls are usually way too quiet on the mailing list all right we should probably do due diligence and ask if anybody feels it\u0027s not ready for last call just to be fair okay no hands yeah yeah you\u0027re right we should ask that of course if you do a last call and people say oh this is not ready at all then we\u0027ll no listen to that but yeah so let\u0027s see the next one is the REM PM of the yang hello I\u0027m Lisa from Hawaii I prep resent the mattress yawn design team to introduce the updating information for the a gimpy and Imelda Yamato okay okay that\u0027s the word for for the working group document for the champion MRD llamado Judd and the the drafter have reviewed by the young doctor and this forum by the working group chair stick updating according to the documents and it had passed the validations the first updating for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:04",
    "text": "three levels for the configuration the the first level is the global level or whatever that means the Tempe and MIT attributes for the entire routing system it is not running on the interface it\u0027s only for the instance or the in order or her whole system like the max entries or max groups it\u0027s it\u0027s only a few parameters so then the second level is the interface global in the fixed global means that is applicable to all of the interface and that the interface has no configuration of specific interface configuration the it is not easy to explain and that I had give a example for that if you in the interface global level we have config a parameter like interval is the 200 seconds and if we have three interfaces and the e1 e2 and e3 if I\u0027m only one we have configure our interval is the 100 and the actual running states for the parameter Y on the a1 the 8mp Corinto is 100 seconds and the e2 and the history both has used the global query interval that is the 200 seconds and the third level is the interface level interface level as means the specific to the given interface it\u0027s only or running on the specific interface and the interface level has some different of range from the interface globe level for example that is the group policy or verify sauce substance a night o or the immediately next the other updating information about this one is the as we have some common parameters for both the 8 MP and MRD and the description only including the 8 MP so this dispersion we add the description for the MRD and the other is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:06",
    "text": "the protocol version is different from the Olympian MRD so we move from the common parameter to the separate definition like in the in the slide that we can see for the edge MP and the werden range is the 1 2 3 \u0026 4 the MRD the were only one and the two okay other updating information for the revised description did here the errors so it we want to apply to the working group mr. Kaul and any more comments yes I have one question there\u0027s been a couple of presentations I\u0027ve seen this ITF for some new way of dealing with configuration status as I mentioned and you know intended state and what the actual status so I\u0027m wondering a little bit anemia alvaro can comment on that but it\u0027s the plan to update all the ITF like routing yang models to support that and the question is should we spend time on updating this to follow that and will the documents that we you know the models that we rely on as well if those will be updated shortly Randy so there was a statement that was put out a few weeks ago that all of you should have read but I didn\u0027t memorize but the saving talks about yes how should the drafts be published with respect to the to the different states I forget all the names how them trying to stay as far away from the Yak politics as possible and and yes I think in the same it it suggests that all models when possible should be updated to the format I think it\u0027s called the LMDC whore Matt so it should be updated to that it does mention I think a couple of cases where the model has been done is deployed your operation on the all stuff that you know maybe it\u0027s not worth changing but that\u0027s pretty much the biggest exception if you want to I can dig that up and send it to the list just to make sure that everyone sees it I believe it went to the whole routing area but it may have gone not to the working group list to some other list somewhere I\u0027m sure this chairs we have it somewhere if you don\u0027t I can look it up yeah trying to see if I could "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:07",
    "text": "displayed something here but anyway there\u0027s this guidelines for young models offers the using a new network management data store yes architecture all right there\u0027s a draft on that and and yeah if you can forward that email it yes oh look and I guess the other question is also if we should do that to the pin model I guess that might make sense I mean that\u0027s already you know we already requested that publish but I guess it\u0027s nothing has happened since they asked for that right so let me because that\u0027s in my queue let me figure out with the yank markers and figure out well yeah well yeah I\u0027ll just figure out what they what they want us to do yeah so let me I\u0027ll take that extra Thanks yeah yeah yeah so any other comments on the draft and should be considered last call I guess they maybe should try to figure out whether we need to make this other changes but our other only other issues you see is it more less ready for last call or do people think there\u0027s something that needs to be done changed should we ask for hands so members just need to wait okay so apart from this you had just discussed you need to resolve that you think the draft is ready for last call you raise the hand raise your hand if you think we should do a last call it supposed to resolve the issue with a configuration data store yeah I think four five yeah yeah I should also add versus design team with people from multiple vendors and I assume that they all are happy to do free to go to last call yeah yeah it has been a young doctors if you don\u0027t think it\u0027s ready for last call and you raise your hand okay no okay no one against so all right so we\u0027ll see what our Alvaro says and you know what info he comes back with and that\u0027s some discussion on the list about the configuration model and yeah and should the goal should be to be to advise the draft is necessary and your last call before the next 30th yeah okay because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:08",
    "text": "our job too dependent on the routing I\u0027d have routing and I\u0027d have interface the Amado yeah they should be revised percent where and we follow yeah yeah yeah all that makes sense but yeah and in general I\u0027ve been hearing that you know people want ITF models as quickly as possible of people will start using low mighty of models so hoping that this can happen pretty quick okay all right okay um we\u0027ll move on to the other yang model yeah that\u0027s also me okay next I represented the Matt Acosta young design team to introduce the item P and Emily snooping llamado this is the first time to give the presentation here so I can just ask one question so so I see it in the draft there\u0027s only one offer but but all of those people work yeah and did that the chapter has not updated okay no not not updating hi okay okay okay this this version destroyed the structure for the item peon Mr D is looping Yamoto according to the HMP and mr t moto so we we we don\u0027t have the agreement of with the whole structure just a noun so the chapter who needs to update after the meeting and so the effort from the mark as a young he\u0027s on team from the edison jabber and who are we under cisco we want more winners or cameras involved this is the whole structure for the item he and emeriti snooping llamado disturb is this is the example for the MV smoking emily smoking is the same chester the IP address is different the item he\u0027s duping yamato we we achieve for for now we get the equipment that we use the are jumping enemies to give profile style to render the model and it includes the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:08",
    "text": "a global parameters like the for modding mode explicit explicit tracking and the aesthetic group and the sum sum operation or in state is not a compliment incomplete its gesture for example here is the sum group and the source information so the profile we refresh reference to the Igoe breach top rich model that the model so we use the model from the profile style which can properly use in the Whalen or bridge domain so the process can be fully independently if defined and can be augmented and can be rare references and from other models easily and of war for adjusted to the breach doorman or villain but we have not discussed for the we si or European is so that\u0027s the RPC for the atoms to ping for now we only define the clear the atom is looping groups this is some urns there\u0027s some problem we and it\u0027s empty more should to go on and the one is how to extended the activists new team profile stare the model to support vaporized or European and the second is how to define the operational state date so next we we wanted to involve more vendors and carers and need more comments it\u0027s all our giveaway and mystical okay that\u0027s pretty good no well mother you mentioned "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:13",
    "text": "okay yeah just like the other models it\u0027s really important that people look at this because else you know you some if you\u0027re a vendor some customer might come and say oh we want you to support this RFC but if you don\u0027t know if your implementation doesn\u0027t cover all say like mandatory things in the model you will have a problem to support it and of course ultimately this is for people to manage the devices so they need to contain what info people actually need to get so I think that\u0027s important it\u0027s important that everyone has a look at this and have you thought about supporting as it says are jumpy sleeping have you followed a GMP proxying what will it cover that or would there may be some additional things to submit it to support that okay I think we proceed we separated or yeah I\u0027m not sure exactly I haven\u0027t fall about it I\u0027m wondering will a sleeping draught more or less automatically do you what you need for prop seeing as well Laurie I\u0027m not sure I think to think about there\u0027s also speeches from broadcasts for him and doing a sleeping model I think you know there wasn\u0027t discussion on like a mailing list so and and they also had some model I think that they proposed so if it\u0027s good to compare the models I\u0027m not sure have done that so we are guess at this point your soul working and trying to agree on some of these things in the design team so I know are you interested in adoption now it\u0027s too early to consider adoption I think it\u0027s not ready action so I think we should just encourage people to look at the model and provide comments on the list and if you\u0027re interested you\u0027re also welcome to join the design team it\u0027s animal from the ITF or anywhere that is interested in working on these models so if you have a meeting on every Monday night I remind the evening for for the Beijing hi yeah yeah some either early mornings or late nights all right okay as a please if you have comments now that would be great otherwise please please have a look at the draft and see what you think all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:23",
    "text": "I don\u0027t think so just make sure I don\u0027t forget them it\u0027s yeah okay yeah great if you can do it all right so this is about him we like people up here for prefixes over ipv6 next hop first presented last time by Ashutosh Gupta he could not be here today he\u0027s the main author of this I\u0027ve been involved a little bit myself and I\u0027ll do the update this time next slide please and I might actually want to skip this one right now let\u0027s go to this alright so so with multi costs with with him but multicast engine only he care about RPF and when you want to select him join you needed the RPF to find out what is the next hop towards the source or the RP and with PIM Merce person for you basically you need to send an ipv4 to him join and it has to be sent to an ID before thus the nation\u0027s you need to find your ipv4 next hop send that join the problem though is there are people that are deploying this thing this RFC 55:49 where they basically use ipv6 BGP to do both before in the six they don\u0027t want to have separate earrings for both v4 and v6 so sort of having a single control plane for both before and the six wrapping and this works pretty fine for unicast but for for multicast or payment particular the problem is if the next hop is a v6 address how do we find out what before destination to send up him join to if there\u0027s only one pim neighbor we can kind of say okay hopefully that\u0027s the guy we should simply join to that\u0027s maybe not that\u0027s great but it\u0027s possible if there\u0027s more neighbors we need to have some way of resolving this and the the previous draft mentioned like three four alternatives and basically discussion last ITF they concluded on this one simple solution which is to use the address list option which already is in 4601 and the new PM sparse motifs back at the standard but in the in the spec it says that basically you assume that the address list has the same address family as the pin message normally and in the ARB see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:24",
    "text": "it says it should be the same family and people have been using this implementing this for ipv6 just basically the problem is you need to send up in join to the primary I just like a link local address or your next topic but sometimes people have a static route so they\u0027re aware the next stop is a global address and we\u0027re used for v6 use the address this option to safari device to say here are my other addresses so if you RPF results to one of those you know which link local address to send a joint to and we figure we can use the same mechanism in this case so basically have a four device with you send the address this option in a before hello and saying here are all my v6 addresses so if the next stop is one of those v6 addresses then you know what every four addresses so in a way it\u0027s the exact same mechanism as is standardized already it\u0027s just that you are kind of crossing address families so this one yeah thanks so basically if you look at this topology you have a multicast host - they\u0027re just five five five five to the far left behind are one and let\u0027s say r2 should send a pin join - well towards Eskimo G towards five five five five so it needs to look up the RPF and in this case this Buffy 406 deployed we have our before address in the six address for our one one column column one and one one one one so we kind of want we do have RPF look up using our the routing we got from the EG p v6 other LRC numbers you get every six next up four five five five five basically people say it\u0027s like one common common one but we need to resolve this - one one one one somehow so the idea is if our one cents on hello and saying here are my v6 addresses we would see that our one column column one is one of those so then they know that the actual pin neighbor to send a joint to is 1 1 1 1 all right any questions so far okay then I guess go forward 2 slides okay so I started already mention this so basing basically using the address this option that already is standardized and the way we use it is as before except we are crossing at his family\u0027s that\u0027s the main problem next slide and yeah this this has already been deployed or implemented and deployed by at least one Cisco customer and we\u0027re looking for adoption and it can maybe be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:24",
    "text": "just an informational document saying this is something you might do the one problem though is the pim RFC says 461 and what and also than the new internet standard draft says that did the secondary neighbor addresses should be on the same family as the primary address Tom Secord so is the join for the v4 stuff then still an ipv4 multicast yeah yeah the only problem is that they only get the v6 next up from the their routing ok well you know I\u0027m was just wondering if the do we have so there is no interest to only have a single address family team adjacency maybe there could be but at least as far as I know from these deployments there\u0027s both before and the six configured on the router interfaces but I see what you say though I mean if you just wanted to transport me for multicast maybe you could still use v6 p.m. signaling to receive it for multicast so the the address the the address extension stuff is in the pin v4 hello or in the pin v6 hello it doesn\u0027t say it\u0027s not specific to our family and in the RFC it just says that you do a hello where you can list you know additional addresses okay and the and the but it says that the the address family of those addresses should be the same as address other hello itself so if we wanted to try to you know go the same direction as I guess the unicast signaling is which is kind of trying to converge on everything over v6 then I think the minimum recommendation should be that that before mapping is the hello option in the v6 in hello right because for example one other logical next step would be let\u0027s say what is my preferred solution to transport the pim messages so maybe we don\u0027t care about them anymore but let\u0027s say we just build a v6 port connection and in that v6 port we would also say yet you can still send joints for crappy v4 traffic but kind of making you know more and more before just like a service that I can easily get rid of then in the v6 transport so I think your what your part is saying is then also that you could send them you six other consent app enjoin that has a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:24",
    "text": "v6 address destination address like in the IP header but it might contain right if four addresses like before s comma types and I will only for example build a single TCP connection right I mean one of the problems of I mean yes we haven\u0027t made I think a lot of deployment progress with port because people may not understand the benefit but given how it\u0027s you know about the fast convergence in a reliable fashion especially when you have a lot of TV programs and they fail over then definitely it would be useful not to have you know two competing connection 146 144 but basically have been a single TCP connection and you can also prioritize your v6 joints over your before joints right so kind of getting into that v6 direction you know somewhat further I think within this draft the minimum and I\u0027d say is that you know prefer doing that option v6 so that we can you know get rid of before and considering something like next step being before n v6 in v6 port so logic is just you know yeah so yeah I mean there\u0027s also people that are trying to deploy v6 only in their in their core networks and but they might still want a chance to actually deliver before payload so yeah that can be useful I\u0027m just saying right I think it\u0027s the the first step is trying to make the control plane you know v6 only and before more like a service in that v6 transport plane right getting rid of the native v4 multicast packets that\u0027s a different challenge right I mean then we\u0027ve looked at other solution that but that seems to be a little bit more more working not necessarily yeah one thing though I would say I would prefer you know as Laura this I would prefer to just have this like a separate thing it\u0027s it\u0027s just a lot of use of an existing option so it\u0027s a fairly simple document and easy thing to do but to do what you said you know with using say a v6 conjoined to ask for before traffic whatever that really needs to you know revise that the PIM spec because it says that it must be the same address family well you know I\u0027m I can see an author\u0027s wish to be as simple as possible and leave all the options up to the implementations I just love to see even protocol drafts to be you know preferring in their recommendations what we would consider to be the best operational practices and I think that would be to have the hello option in the v6 p.m. and the other comments I know whether I should ask this is the author or maybe something the chairs should consider but as a as an author I would like some guidance maybe whether area it\u0027s worth "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:08:25",
    "text": "trying to you know see if the working group wants to just do this or if we should you know make him maybe make it like a bigger effort oh no ok so how many people have read this draft by the show of hands one two three okay sweet four four and a half of myself okay and so we need more people to read it but I guess of those four that have read it aside from Stig is this a work that you think that we should be doing here in this working group and go as far as adopting this into our working group show your hands if you think it is okay so we got four hands okay so who think who thinks that this should not be something we work on in this working group okay so that\u0027s a good sign Stig we should I\u0027ll take it to the list and then [Music] you want to know though do people think it\u0027s interesting to look into what or less commented on you know about how can we you say with sixteen joints to to basically join me for multicast or most of my comments didn\u0027t necessarily have to go in this draft right that\u0027s just kind of the type of you know dual dual plane where do we want to go alright I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a good thing to think about but maybe all in EMBO Andy and I was thinking the minimum thing we could do in this one which might be sufficient for this document would be to put the preference in there that you know by default the address you know the before addresses should be in the pim v6 I think that was the only impact to this draft the other stuff I think goes beyond this draft and you know raises the operational question where do we want to go yeah yeah would you say all right so maybe I should just you know yeah I\u0027m gonna ask another question that\u0027s a chair they\u0027ll sit down lafurgey that\u0027s okay so thanks all right yeah so yeah it\u0027s not I was wondering about adoption but I know if you\u0027re ready to do that yeah and so when I check on the list them okay thanks okay yeah so speaking as a chair yet I think also it could be interesting to look into what role is mentioned and maybe it\u0027s something worth discussing an amble des well to see whether you know people that deploy multicast where it\u0027s useful to kind of do if form of the cast with v6 signaling and so on maybe talk to a few when eyespace and see if they are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:11:26",
    "text": "considering deploying anything like that or not okay everybody sign the blue sheets raise your hand if you have it alright with that thank you all right thanks to you in Singapore and they\u0027ll do a joint meeting when I\u0027m only I expect next time yeah I mean this makes sure we get emotions I don\u0027t know you need the size of English sheets oh that\u0027s true yeah it\u0027s true much circle I usually do that you should have another we should have any draft yeah must be aware but pricing requires additional configuration but I think like this VPLS document talk about prop seeing as well I\u0027m not sure myself I think about what difference [Music] pretty much yeah I mean I don\u0027t have much just say about it but a few minutes "
  }
]