[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "welcome to Chicago welcome to ietf 98 and welcome to home nets we shall begin note well that which is on the screen as everyone noted it well thank you very much can you guys actually see these screams from where you are we\u0027re aware that one on this side is rather small if you can\u0027t see it these just sit close [Music] okay we\u0027ll try and pop a little bit closer to it how\u0027s that pull okay it seems a little bit directional yes if you can\u0027t see the screens just please sit closer we\u0027re constrained by how close the projectors are to the front of the auditorium okay deliverance trivia need to get these get these blue sheets going around please can we please have a volunteer for a note taker and forever relay somebody please make italy and the note-taker please yes that we find cranky Barbara okay so Barbara\u0027s volunteering to share note taking responsibilities on the etherpad so anybody else could help please yeah okay thank you it\u0027s okay just quick agenda bash would do quick update on our drafts as you may have noticed we\u0027ve actually got a very short amount of scheduled sorry of schedule actual talks on the agenda we originally requested a 90-minute session we\u0027ve got two and a half hour session the Suffolk actually on the agenda when he isn\u0027t even second hour and a half not even lat but well touch on that in a moment so we\u0027ve got we should go out and do this to talk about the Babel profile and Ted and Daniel me go have produced a simpler version of home that name in architecture for our consideration which I believe would be intended to replace the most more complicated version but well that\u0027s a TED talk to that when he comes up so new drafts in the working group so Ted\u0027s aforementioned simple home that naming the home let dog three and home letra back go three I\u0027ve got me an ad evaluation but Terry will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:22",
    "text": "coming up to talk a little bit about those after the other two presentations but just point out now he will be taking Korra find questions only I\u0027m sure Terry will we emphasize that when it comes up in light of the newer home that name in architecture document heads previous version has expired and we still have a number of documents that are other waiting on working other working groups or essentially have gone by the wayside as things develop on the name in architecture so without further ado Judas come please come up for his presentation please stand in the pink box and the fray dark liquor isn\u0027t working so I only try to slice from him I could have done discreetly perhaps I could have them on this screen to the convenient for me I\u0027m afraid this is just make the motor history okay so uh hello is that better okay so I accepted to be editor of the Babel profile for home that draft which was meant to be a technical but rather consensual draft so it has two parts so i will wondering whether make it to draft or one mark and then we can do just one draft there is a first part which tells you how you parameterize Babel if you want to use it in home that so it says things like if you have a gigabit ethernet link give it a metric of 96 then say exactly that but that\u0027s the rough idea or it tells you that you must implement ipv6 and you should implement ipv4 okay things that are needed to get reasonable interoperability between different helmet implementations and there are just parameters that you plug into that and that\u0027s not no problem at all and the second part gives the interactions between the HNC p protocol and the Babel protocol so there\u0027s our things that don\u0027t happen on the wire there are purely local interaction between the two demons and they tell you things like for example if you are announcing an external prefix with ipv6 then you should ensure that Babel is announcing its or specific default route and gives the details hey those are things that are pretty obvious that we understand how the pieces fit but they need to be written down somewhere and so we have two implementations of agency d agent H net D and SH NCPD and that was pretty convenient because I could know when when I was being too strict if I was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:22",
    "text": "forbidding the behavior of one of the two implementations that didn\u0027t behave exactly the same next please so the planner was you know to have one of those clean draft that become RFC after just two iterations dash 0 0 was a first document that I had written on my own I presented it in Berlin said I have doubts about this about that the working group was extremely helpful there was consensus there was almost unanimity on all the points already raised except one on which the minority opinion didn\u0027t feel really strongly about it and so dash 0 1 was a complete document absolutely perfect in all ways just send it to the iesg and be done with it there is a Polish proverb that says that man makes plans and God laughs next place requirement 5 in the draft I didn\u0027t write it entirely that says roughly that that a home net implementation of Babel must implement H Mac based authentication with reference to the right RSC and must enable it if signal to do so by H NCP next and I have no idea I wrote it but they have absolutely no idea what that means so basically this is not precise enough to ensure interoperability and as far as I know nobody has any plans to implement it so I first raised the issue in private with mark than in private with both chairs and Marcus stenberg then i sent a detailed mailing to the mailing list which will find in the archives on far so january this year and I did not receive and the helpful advice on the mailing list next please so in order to implement requirement five you need to have a consensus mechanism that allows hnc denotes to decide that we want to enable authentication on a given link the consensus mechelen can be as simple as we always enable authentication that is a consensus mechanism but the consensus mekin it needs to be defined second you don\u0027t want to become figuring all of your whole net returns with a authentication key so what you need here is a second consensus mechanism which allows the HNC p note to agree on an authentication key that they asked to battle so we need to define the algorithms we need to define the packet format and we need to provide a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:23",
    "text": "reference implementation neck please I\u0027m really proud to have been working with helmet on the last over the last two years I think we are very serious and home that about having work in code everything that we\u0027ve done in this working group as either has been implemented either once or twice or I love this word price and I would not like to be to innovate by being the editor the first document that nobody has any plans to implement at leas so I\u0027m stuck here i have a few suggestions so the simplest but perhaps problematic and the 1 i\u0027m in favor of would be let\u0027s drop requirement five and say well authentication is the problem at the lower layers use wpa use wpa to put a guy with a Kalashnikov in front of every ethernet plug the second suggestion i have is would be to find someone who is willing to do the work that is who is willing to describe the needed algorithms who is willing to define the packet format and who is willing to work on the reference implementation I\u0027m not volunteering to do that because I\u0027m not competent to work on security stuff of course I\u0027d be quite willing to help the second the third suggestion i have i\u0027m trying to be exhaustive here is fire me the canoe editor and well i\u0027m open to other ideas please thank you for our attention okay my views so I\u0027m slightest pointed that we don\u0027t have a cure people volunteering to help or a deal they prefer other suggestions sorry there\u0027s a very sensitive mic or rather very narrow Mike okay so slightly spongy we don\u0027t have a cure people preferring helpful suggestions of how we get out of this impasse from the chairs perspective my concern when asked about this requirement five is simply that I was not convinced that we would actually get through the iesg without a suitable mechanism in place in the document sectarian speculation on that potentially yep is there any feeling for whether we should simply just take this out for the document I\u0027m time yes there is gonna see Apple regarding for your point about the Hegira viewing for that matter the broader ITF we don\u0027t every protocol doesn\u0027t necessarily need an authentication mechanism it\u0027s that every "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:24",
    "text": "document needs a security considerations security discussion so there\u0027s a lot of work that went through this on the security requirements and what we could do to solve them that could be useful and documented in the document but it doesn\u0027t need to be a hard requirement on the protocol yet if so my personal recommendation would be to option one to remove requirement five because one of the main goals in my opinion of home net is that i can buy a bunch of routers from different vendors i plug them in and I\u0027m done uh if that involves i plug them in I go into the one from this it has this web UI to copy this key and I go to the other one to type it in that oh crap that\u0027s in the wrong language it\u0027s never going to work so until we figure out a whole story for this we shouldn\u0027t put requirements on ourselves this can always be added later yeah pizza and so there is a threesome security in the HNC p already so in the RFC there is the use of TLS supposedly on the links that are unsecured so agents be supposed to have some way to decide whether a link is secure than or not so that we can rely on I think it\u0027s part of hgf statements that we should design protocols that are secured so just leaving it just dropping the this requirement would make whole Nets vulnerable to routing protocols attacks that would be annoying i think that\u0027s it defining something in the text that decides how to pick a key for able shouldn\u0027t be that complicated i feel a little bit like you i would like to help but I feel like I\u0027m not competent to touch security stuff but I\u0027m sure it\u0027s a matter of a few lines of code it\u0027s not so complicated please we need Marcus Marcus can you hear us Marcus responded i\u0027ll i\u0027m watching in the java room he says running manually keyed ipsec as a would be obvious choice all rfcs are out there already smirk Ted lemon so a i think that uh you know DTLS seems like it would solve this problem once again excuse you TLS seems like we would solve this problem we don\u0027t have a threat model or security model that\u0027s actually a really big gaping hole in what we\u0027re doing and that\u0027s why you aren\u0027t getting any enthusiasm about this because what\u0027s the point of implementing this if you don\u0027t know how you\u0027re going to use it uh sorry what\u0027s going on over there maybe I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:26",
    "text": "just maybe I\u0027ll just be Elvis right so um things kind of heavy um so uh yeah so so we don\u0027t have a security model we don\u0027t have a threat model um we don\u0027t know what we could reasonably accomplish and we don\u0027t know we can\u0027t reasonably accomplish and so it\u0027s no surprise that nobody\u0027s enthusiastic about implementing something that we don\u0027t even know how to deploy and I think that\u0027s really the problem so debating about this I mean basically the way the hand wave that I would do here is is you know use dtls but we also actually need to stop waving her hands and solve this problem hey so you would advocate for us at least Julia Julius has in his slides an assumption that we want to continue with the predation of having a reference implementation for everything that we put into our internet drafts and our RFC\u0027s I think I just heard okay well maybe we could relax at this time it\u0027s better to go ahead and at least have some text I mean that would that would there\u0027s a proud tradition in the IETF of the security considerations section sprinkling ipsec or whatever the you know the the favorite security mechanism of the day is and saying yep I\u0027ve got a security and you know maybe that\u0027s what we need to do because that\u0027s all we know how to do is that what you\u0027re saying so uh sorry I actually when I got up to the mic intended to say something a little more detailed than what I actually said if we don\u0027t have a mechanism that we can actually implement that will it will work to authenticate that table implementations to each other then we can never have interoperability because a million gable implementations out there some of which implements security and some of which don\u0027t which is actually exactly the scenario that that I\u0027m sorry he was talking about so uh so we act what the right thing to do is actually put some security mechanism that we think will work if we can figure out how to key it and then solve the keying problem later because I don\u0027t think we know how to solve the keying problem right now does that make sense in other in other words assume that you have keys do you have keys that you shared in some secure way and having done that you can now sign your communications I don\u0027t think that the mechanism the authentication mechanism is what the issue is I think that the main problem is the interaction between H NCP and devil right so as data pointed out you really do want the keys you really don\u0027t want to be configuring Babel you want H NCP to take care of the configuration and everything to happen in hnc p and you have a chance ed to decide on everything including the keys that Babel is using and that means "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "defining the HNC p mechanism and do that and that is the bed that worries me so Julius left terrified somewhere to understand that Babel already has a specified H night based authentication mechanism because what you\u0027re saying is that the problem is scope to simply how do we securely distribute the keys within the network so is to configure Babel itself so we\u0027re not asking how how to secure Babel but just how to distribute these yes and if I can paraphrase paraphrase for a BF find workarounds so Pierce point if i understand it right is that this is all doable we sort of know how to do it but somebody needs to step up to do it it just kept estas speaking just to contradict that it\u0027s actually very simple with agency p to get to get a pre-shared key that we can just give out to Babel assuming agency is running in a secure mode or using DTS on links that are unsecured it\u0027s just a theory and a simple consensus among the writers we do that all the time just the tlv containing some some key and we can auto generate a key for babel david\u0027s Ganassi well if we assume that we have keys then what kind of like that was easy and I not sure that\u0027s the right assumption to make because if we design all these protocols with an assumption and then there\u0027s no running code whatsoever and then we realize oh that never managed to get that assumption to work then we just have all these paragraphs I don\u0027t help as people point out there are many mechanisms dtls ipsec pick your choice that all need to be bootstrapped and rushing into saying oh let\u0027s use dtls and then h mac for babel versus that\u0027s run all this over ipsec is a premature decision until we figure that out so just to throw additional gasoline on the fire um I this is Ted lemon again I think that actually what Pierre just described is not the right way to solve the problem because what you really if you\u0027re doing pre-shared keys that are that are a symmetric than what you want is to have a key pair that you want to have a key that\u0027s shared between each pair of communicating devices not not a key that everybody agrees on if you have a key that everybody agrees on you have no security at all because you can\u0027t tell you\u0027re talking to I think agency p works like works this way so in hnc p it\u0027s it\u0027s based on you know trust I mean it\u0027s a bit more advanced security model in agency p the idea being that every time you would need to modify that key that Babel uses you just updates the key so if you need to revoke someone you know reebok some router it\u0027s a chance if it does that and just change is the key "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:27",
    "text": "that is used by babel the key that is used by babel is generated by agency and can be mowed can be modified at any time agency p as a strong stronger yeah the specific point that I\u0027m making is that a key used by babel is not the right solution there should be a key shared between each pair of devices that are communicating so there\u0027s a question for Judas then does the Babel security profile allow pairwise p sharing or is it network life allows multiple t-shirt key that it doesn\u0027t have multiple keys so I don\u0027t know certainly there are deployments where their group keys versus pairwise for everyone I mean it\u0027s this gets into the whole debate of you ease up you know ease of key distribution versus your you know your threat model and and the security right so I mean I know the number of solutions that have have some sort of group keying involved like I think you did this arguments between Ted and Pierre is degenerating and I am paralyzed on an actual authentication of routing protocols is ran Atkinson and I I\u0027m actually the original author of the ospf authentication and the rip authentication both of which are deployed and with ospf all of the routers on a given link have to use the same key there is no distinguishing the router a originated the message as opposed to router see if router is a B and C share the same length so there there is ospf is in existence example that you don\u0027t necessarily need unique keying for rib a common key is used for all routers in both ospf and rip there is no automated key management that\u0027s built into either rip or ospf the ITF had a carp kar p working group some years ago which basically went nowhere to try to do automatic keying for routing protocols what people really do in practice is they use provisioning systems and a specific example is that an ISP that is running something like netcom might or might not actually be netcom and they probably are not using yang today but they have ssh or TLS as a way to protect the provisioning session between a centralized database that knows that the configuration of all the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "devices and the key is just one element of that and they send that over a secure authenticated channel that may or may not be the best way to do it but that is a common way but it is done I don\u0027t know of anybody doing automated key management for rip because people who are using rip have small networks and it\u0027s practical to just run around and type in the keys oh we have a protocol fill up but but at least 40 SPF people can and do you know large ISPs can and do provision the keys using their the same mechanism they use to configure the routers remotely yeah so the questions the group plan is do we have people here in the room or on the list or Java who would help with number two it sounds like we\u0027ve certainly got some expertise in the Robin as far as our routing protocol securities concern below it as per previous discussion it\u0027s really actually the institution keys is the problem with the HNC p rather than a ranking protocol per se if it ever got people here can stand up and be counted I object to that to that proposal this is not the same situation as a network that\u0027s operated by like you know I mean we used to use rip back at deck when I when I first started doing networking stuff right was actually Rick v1 I think which is kind of explosive but let\u0027s not get into that and you know we could have operated a network where we had to go type the keys in or where we shared the keys with HNC he but this is not the same situation anything that connects to the network in principle can join the HNC peak conversation and that means that if you want debug ability you have to know who you\u0027re talking to you have to know who sent the message and to know who sent the message it has to be signed with a key that belong to that particular entity not a key that is shared amongst all entities that are communicated that\u0027s the issue and so now my point here is not that you should accept that what I just said is true I may be completely full of shit here but we need to actually do the threat analysis and figure out if what I said is true rather than um jumping to a solution but I don\u0027t think that I don\u0027t think that we can legitimately go forward without doing that work and that\u0027s work that we\u0027ve kind of been punting on for lo these many years I am definitely interested doing that work I don\u0027t want to have to do it by myself because then you\u0027ll get Ted\u0027s opinion which is probably wrong but but we need to do that work and and if we don\u0027t do that work before we publish this then we\u0027re going to wind up with no secure interoperability so I\u0027m going to make a proposal we\u0027ve got um the wonderful opportunity that this is 9 a.m. on monday we have some people that seemed at least you know have expertise and maybe even motivation if by the end of the week you guys get together and say yes we are the group ok i can i can ask for call hands right now you know for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "volunteers to raise hands if you guys get together with a you know coherent way forward by the end of the week this week that\u0027s the that\u0027s the design team and well of course whomever else would want to join in on list if you can get Marcus here as well that would be great is that a little unconventional but i\u0027m just using the fact that it\u0027s nine a.m. on monday and we\u0027ve got 43 if we also have a fair amount of time probably at the end of the session if we don\u0027t keep talking about this ok can we get a raise of hands of people that would like to join in on the security discussion with Ted with the ultimate goal of people fulfilling number two here with Julius awesome you see those names you see those people look around there\u0027s at least five people in the room so um you guys get together with Ted and Julius afterwards and try to solve this by the end of the week make sense well league jump in I\u0027m late at the mic but I was in line is Jabbar scribe yeah sorry Lee Howard relaying from Marcus Steinberg he wanted to point out that the potential scalability issue that technically we can support to go technically we can support multiple keys but not for N squared keys for end devices so there\u0027s the potential scalability but I think he\u0027s also going to be paying attention on business up okay thank you Ted you\u0027re up oh goody we don\u0027t have the monitor screen all right so I\u0027m Ted lemon and Danny me go above me a little while ago to get to work on this simple net naming and service discovery architecture because the working group didn\u0027t seem all that excited about the previous complicated home net naming and service discovery architecture maybe I should chose in a better title so next slide so we got together and Daniel produced a kind of a you know intention document and I took what he did and kind of at the very last minute before I TF took the old document sucked the bits out of it that I think are relevant to what we actually possibly might have consensus to do and produced a new draft that is it was published before the deadline has anybody seen that document oh boy all right all right well so so I\u0027ll just tell you about it so this is a first draft as I said I suck the bits out of the old on that naming architecture document so there are still a few little crumbs left over from that document that need to be cleaned up but it\u0027s pretty solid in terms of the general structure I think all the stateful stuff and all the security is gone there\u0027s no external visibility of name so you can\u0027t publish on that zone anymore at all um the hope "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "and the intention in the way that the document is written is that you could pile a second document on top of that that adds that functionality back and I certainly intend to write that document whether it will get working group consensus or not I don\u0027t know um let\u0027s see and you know unsurprisingly it relies on DNS SD discovery proxy which is the new name for the DNS SD hybrid proxy next slide so uh there there are a few differences what happened to us oh I see yeah the that was a late night slide issue so there\u0027s a few different differences from what\u0027s specified in the simple architecture versus what\u0027s in the uh the discovery proxy document uh the discovery proxy presents the discovery proxy is a single functional block I split into two functional blocks the so the two functional blocks of the Korean proxy in the relaying proxy and the other thing is that the discovery proxy relies on the manager of the network providing meaningful names for the links and obviously that\u0027s not going to happen on a home net so we just have to come up with names and they don\u0027t mean anything and there are some issues with that next slide so the querying proxy answers DNS protocol request from hosts and only from hosts whenever it gets a request it generates proxies which it sends to all of the relaying proxies that it knows about um and then it just sits there and waits for answers to come in and combines the responses it does the name rewriting that\u0027s specified in in the project in the discovery proxy document uh let\u0027s see uh it only does DNS protocol it doesn\u0027t do mdns it does query aggregation as specified in the in the discovery proxy document for hosts that don\u0027t support DNS push if hosts do support DNS push it does the DNS push support and there can be one or more querying proxies per home that and every home netrunner has to support the querying proxy function just because you know otherwise you might buy to them that routers neither which supports it and not be able to do service discovery next slide so the relaying proxy gets DNS protocol queries from querying proxies it sends mdns protocol requests to the link that is each individual occurring or relink roxy sends mdns protocol requests to the link that it is serving and when it gets responses back it just realized them back to the querying proxies there\u0027s no um state being held in the in the relaying proxy probably although there there could be some debate about that because if you\u0027re if you\u0027re if you\u0027re putting on of an existing mdns implementation that might actually already do some caching "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:36",
    "text": "so uh let\u0027s see it doesn\u0027t do any name rewriting it assumes essentially the DNS push support model although i\u0027m not convinced that we actually need to do dns push as opposed to just sending multiple responses since we\u0027re talking to the divine entity that we already know supports it but it might be better to do it just because that way you know if you look at the protocol you won\u0027t be confused um and we don\u0027t have to actually then specify the relaying proxy to query and proxy protocol there\u0027s one late relaying proxy / link if there\u0027s two ho met routers connected to a link h NCP chooses one of those routers to serve as the relaying proxy for that link and all home that routers obviously have to support really proxy next slide uh name conflicts this is not really different than what\u0027s in the hybrid sorry the discovery proxy document um mdns does name defense on the link so we don\u0027t have to worry about names being named conflicts on the link that\u0027s taken care of by mdns conflicts across the link are dealt with in the same way that they\u0027re dealt with in the discovery proxy and Link names zone names are bogus and don\u0027t mean anything and will look weird to users so if there are conflicts then a one way to deal with that is that we can in the case of conflicts only reveal the link sub domain to the to the user that\u0027s one option another option is that we can just always present the link sub domain so the user just always sees that little ugly number I don\u0027t love that solution and then you know there\u0027s an unanswered question and it\u0027s unanswered probably because I\u0027m just ignorant as to how big of a problem this is um let\u0027s go to the next slide uh so these are the these are the sets of cases that I think can cause naming conflicts I had a naming conflict on my laptop it\u0027s called macbook pro and as soon as I connected the IETF network for some reason there was another device on the network called macbook pro I don\u0027t know why so this can just happen by accident it can happen because somebody\u0027s trying to attack a device like if you got a printer somebody might try to pose as the printer and capture all of your documents and then kind of man in the middle you uh so that\u0027s a possible reason why there could be named conflict I\u0027ve never actually seen that happen but obviously it\u0027s not a bad idea to defend against it although we don\u0027t actually have a defense against it another thing which I\u0027ve seen in networks that dude the discovery proxy wrong is that if you have a device that\u0027s prison on one link and then it appears on another link the discovery proxy may defend the name on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:36",
    "text": "the second link causing the device to renumber its name they usually just increment a number and then that kind of produces ugly result another thing that can happen is you\u0027ve got a device\u0027s got to network interfaces and if they present the same name on different links then you have a conflict so one of the problems the reason why we can\u0027t actually solve this is that mdns doesn\u0027t have a unique identifier per device as far as I know so uh so we can\u0027t just look at the identifier and say oh these are the same device we don\u0027t need to do this ambigua shin which would be awfully nice um we can\u0027t use the link local address because it might be different you know even if its serial you might connect with the Wi-Fi at one point and then with your Ethernet at another point that a different mac address doesn\u0027t work um I don\u0027t love the solutions that we have I\u0027d like to come up with a better solution but there is no solution that\u0027s perfect either we either we have to add a new protocol which is somewhat impractical or we have to do some kind of heuristic to deal with the name conflict issue and whatever that heuristic is I have a feeling is going to have some edge cases that are going to be difficult so this is something that we should decide on I\u0027m not going to you know I could go either way I mean I\u0027m a geek so I don\u0027t care about the little weird numbers that much but I have a feeling that that it may cause a little bit of pain for end users uh but I don\u0027t know so uh that\u0027s we need just we need to figure that out next slide uh yeah so so there are some regrets about about going to the simple architecture I\u0027m i I\u0027m not entirely happy with it although i think it\u0027s it\u0027s probably you know a good choice from from a from the standpoint of being able to support less capable routers we don\u0027t have a security model the old the old architecture was heading in the direction of a security model didn\u0027t really have a security model either but it was getting there um we don\u0027t have a registration protocol which means that we\u0027re just using mdns and mdns has issues there are things about emptiness that don\u0027t work it would be awfully nice to have a registration protocol um and if we don\u0027t do the registration protocol in this document I don\u0027t think that we realistically are going to have a registration protocol so that\u0027s a regret um there is no clean way to enumerate all services that\u0027s just not how MBS works if you if you\u0027re clever you can sit and sniff on the wire and watch services services announced when they come on the wire but that really depends on all the all of the stars being right and we know what happens when all the stars of rights it\u0027s probably not a good idea anyway um and of course we don\u0027t have the states so there\u0027s no place to connect that list even if we had one and you know we\u0027re not fixing mdns I guess that really goes back to the registration protocol thing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "so next slide so basically this is the this is the last slide breathe a sigh of relief uh so we need to decide whether we want to do this or what I was proposing before if you\u0027re not familiar with this or what I was proposing before you probably have a strong opinion about this um and uh you know we need to we need to figure out whether we care about the registration protocol issue it\u0027s not really our problem so arguably even if even if we did care about it we couldn\u0027t solve the problem here anyway I actually have a document that I that I did in DNS SD the talks about the registration protocol issue the the the order that we could put in the water is whether we specify it in our architecture we specified our architecture than we need to probably get dns SD to actually solve the problem i\u0027m sure they\u0027d love that and you know there\u0027s a disambiguation problem you need to figure that out and we need to figure out how important ugly versus clean presentation is to us so those are those are the decisions before the working group if nobody here except three have read the draft I don\u0027t know that we can make those decisions in the room today but these are things that we should be thinking about the draft by the way is only eight pages so it wouldn\u0027t be that painful to read it soon hi Ted item for the note takers my name is Stuart cheshire I think the suggestion that the DM SSD working group take some of this on is not a bad one I have recently been getting more involved as an industry organization called the thread group which I think was originally spearheaded by nest but now as many companies in it and they\u0027re doing good work using mesh networks using 6lowpan and that\u0027s a mesh network so classic multicast is is painful on that network and they need a surf discovery solution so I think there\u0027s definitely an industry need for this and I\u0027m still learning about threat I but but I see that as a consumer of this one other little point which I almost hesitate to mention because it may be abused but you said there\u0027s no way to enumerate services there is a little-known feature and if you look in RFC 67-63 search for underscore services and an serve a query for underscore services on other school DNS SD enumerates all the service types now there may be devices that don\u0027t support that correctly and that\u0027s an issue in all protocols if it\u0027s not implemented correctly it\u0027s not there to work but at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:37",
    "text": "least in principle there is a way to do this exhaustive bootstrap where you get the list of services and then fit your service type you get the list of instances and and this can produce a ton of traffic on the network but that you can pull that thread and in principle find everything cool thanks I Ted hi Carolyn verizon just as you rightly pointed out in the previous session that one should not go off and design security solutions without a threat model I feel that it would be useful to have some sort of a user model articulated you know before we you know really hone in on specific solutions for this work so for example it seems to me that you\u0027re pointing at a residential user on what sorts of things could we assume about that user does the user know a priority what service they are searching for on what you know what\u0027s the what\u0027s the maximum length of a flat list of instances for that service that we might know one I want to present before the whole you know before the whole thing kind of breaks down so you probably have such a model in your head now that they could be very useful if you prefaced the technical part of this with you know some mmm yeah sort of yeah that\u0027s a great suggestion thank you hi this is andrew sullivan ah and i think i want to expand on that a little bit so I have to apologize because I was following the other architecture document which didn\u0027t seem to be getting updated I wondered why and now I know sorry I so I read this very quickly just now I\u0027m sorry probably missing something uh but I have to I have to say that I think what Kerry just said is is right that it\u0027s I\u0027m starting to feel like the target is not very clear here and we have a whole bunch of stuff including a long and boring discussion that we\u0027ve had about names um that um that all happened because we wanted you know the big set of cool stuff that was in the other architecture document that made for things to be complicated and now we\u0027ve whittled that down in this document it looks to me so that most of those controversial decisions that we were making didn\u0027t need to happen anyway and we could we could just get around all of them right so I I now feel like we need to step up one level and sort of make a little bit clearer exactly which target were trying to hit right we had some we had some use cases early on it feels to me just looking at it and again i did this very quickly like while you were talking so i\u0027m sorry if i\u0027m missing something but it feels to me like what we\u0027re actually doing is throwing away some of use cases that we had before in order to make this simpler that\u0027s okay that\u0027s that\u0027s a perfectly reasonable thing to do but I think we have to do it consciously rather than yeah but rather than to try to simplify yeah that\u0027s exactly right um that you know I feel the same frustration like like you know whether whether the the kitchen sink approach that I chose last time was the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "right approach or not this is definitely the most pared down approach that I\u0027m even willing to contemplate and it\u0027s pretty pared down and I\u0027m not in love with it but it does have the virtue of being pretty easy to come to consensus on and we already basically know how to do it so uh I\u0027d rather do something more ambitious but the fact of the matter is here we are how many years since the working group was chartered and we don\u0027t have an architecture for naming yet so maybe that\u0027s an indication that we need to set our sights a little lower elf roth drums in the interest of giving you something to do that\u0027s more ambitious i wonder if there are other local naming mechanisms local name and protocols that you might want to at least leave hooks for or consider for future inclusion of trying to to about the design principle don\u0027t cut yourself off from other things that you might want to include venture hit have you already considered that and and honestly no I haven\u0027t so if you if you have some suggestions on in that direction I Beverly service hmm nice return of service oh yeah I\u0027ve been here a while so yeah I think that\u0027s a great suggestion and and I I don\u0027t mean to say and therefore you go you go deal with it also look at it but I think you may know more than I do so oh no no no I make no such claims okay so since I\u0027m getting is that weird too early to be looking adopting this and as yet we haven\u0027t adopted the earlier advanced home nickname in architecture document either but unfortunately means that we\u0027re not in a position to do anything until I think we see at least one more Rev of this stop it takes a look at the feedback they getting today so I\u0027m guessing there\u0027s Patek to push something out fairly soon and please if you have to be back to Ted again it\u0027s nine o\u0027clock Monday yeah we have a week to get further feedback into its this at some discussion on the list as well please and if I didn\u0027t forget something out way before Prague so that by private we can actually make sense it\u0027s cool to actually adopt okay Joe any other questions thank you okay ash on a related note i see Daniel over there in the room so we do have too much older documents relating to naming that Daniel is also co-author all so there\u0027s the front-end name delegation and the HC options related to that those to my mind now look like they\u0027re pretty dead you concur with that Daniel or do you think they\u0027re still scope for those to be brought into a more advanced naming scheme further on it\u0027s unclear where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:40",
    "text": "those sit now will what do it and they address something different than the one we addressed oh yeah so I don\u0027t think that in a sense that which is waiting for there were more looking at how you can outsource your name is your alternative name is server from your CPU to an outsourcing architecture so I don\u0027t think their dad okay we\u0027re just waiting for the naming out for the restaurant at John Adams would be okay we\u0027ll let them sit where they are then for now might be done but we might have to change them once we ended up your tickers okay thank you okay sorry hey folks responsible ad hat on so when the home net dot document came across my desk for a eval I sent a request off to DNS old for them to evaluate this in two aspects one is the 6761 constructs the other is to consider the secure delegation in terms of DNS SEC or so the insecure delegation in terms of DNS SEC the request is fair and appropriate and it\u0027s what we do in the IETF because we like cross area cross working group review especially given that the place where I\u0027m looking at here so what I\u0027m going to describe at this point in time and i\u0027m only at the end of this going to ask the clarifying questions is that this is my current assessment of where we sit at the moment there are other people who are engaged in discussions in fact we\u0027ve had a number of discussions with a number of people to try and work out what the situation is and where we might go from here so this is my summary situation at the moment dot homenet could could be added to the special use domain registry based on 6761 second one the expected future operation of home that resolution for dns validating stub resolvers requires a break in the DNS SEC chain of trust I mean so this you you already know you\u0027ve heard it before so to achieve that second one the document being that the draft additionally asks Dianna to insert an unsecure delegation into the root zone the ask for that is not covered in IETF policy terms and it actually tries to put an entry into someone else\u0027s registry now doing that will probably require a set of very collaborative discussions with the i kin community a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:43",
    "text": "new process would probably have to be constructed and I that would have to be and there are no expectations that that process will happen in any reasonable time frame so there are some options and these are not the options that I see them and to give you an idea of where some people surrounding this are are talking about obviously there\u0027s the status quo which is ck dot home that special use domain with the request for an insecure delegation to the route and so that\u0027s your status quo as it stands right now second option would be to seek a dominant special use domain without the delegation request and ask the IETF iesg IAB to convince the discussion with the i kin community to achieve an insecure delegation there\u0027s another one which is to seek a home DARPA insecure delegation as per RFC 3172 or the last one go for a dot home that special used to main with asking the isg IAB arm IETF to go off and talk to the i kin community but if that doesn\u0027t work full back to doing something in upper so these are some of the areas that we\u0027re thinking about and i thought it would work it\u0027s worthwhile to highlight that to the working group to say this is not an easy conversation to have there are lots of aspects to this with that i\u0027m open to clarifying questions West heart occur and EOC eyesight what would the insecure delegation delegation excuse me for not being able to speak look like so you know I mean part of the question that before making that decision is I\u0027d wanna know would would there be a nameserver record and what would it point to there would be a name civil record it would be an unsigned nameserver record and would be pointing to the is 112 I think it was going to be there was some debate about exactly what to do yeah yeah that would be if that would be 10 shape you would point to something that would return uh I don\u0027t know what you\u0027re talking about answer hey um yeah so uh I guess you know from my perspective you know ray and I were talking about this earlier and I\u0027m wondering like does it does it seem like a bad idea to you guys just to because we have a number of other related problems like this I mean dot onion doesn\u0027t need a delegation we actually wanted to secure denial of existence for not onion but for example localhost currently has a secure denial of existence which is bad so there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "there are other cases where we have stuff that really ought to be in the root zone \u0027isn\u0027t and what do we do about that I mean should should we just should we just have a document in DNS off that solves all of these at once I think the clarifying question you\u0027re trying to ask here is is there something else we can do given that there are other use cases well it\u0027s what I just described sounds an awful lot like out your option to and and and that sounds like a reasonable option to me I mean is it sound as you know I it\u0027s a fluid state right now so I really have no strong answer for you sorry no worries just do if I understand Ted are you trying to raise the point that okay we\u0027re trying to do something but there\u0027s other general stuff so it\u0027s not just us there\u0027s other well no I mean I don\u0027t really want to go down that rat hole basically what I\u0027m just what I\u0027m what I\u0027m asking is like is the right process to just do what we are talking about doing special use domain names registry and then separate have a separate process in DNS off that just deals with all of the cleanup for the cases where we really need a delegation in the root zone and don\u0027t have one one of which would be home that so the clarifying point is is are you asking the group to be you know one work item amongst a general thing that\u0027s going on Indiana dns off anyway or remove ourselves from that general thing and I think that\u0027s the important you know higher level question in a administrative sense to Terry is that am I making sense I think Terry just said that he that he doesn\u0027t have the answer to that question for us so okay so I\u0027m okay with that I mean if this is a hard problem Paul Hoffman so a couple of things please don\u0027t do the status quo because I\u0027m sorry please don\u0027t you the status quo going into IETF last call because the discussion and i HAF last call will be useless it\u0027ll be useless to you it\u0027ll be useless to the iesg it will be on many topics that turn out not to be important so please don\u0027t do that I you know pick another one um if you feel like doing status quo please rewrite the I in a consideration section that is I pointed out some issues after working group last call here the authors worked on them and that scares me that is it didn\u0027t come back to the working group it just was like the others oh yeah you\u0027re right and just did that that to me seems like not a good way to have this working group understand what is being asked of the IHF and i hf last call we\u0027ve seen some ITF last calls recently that are hundreds of messages long very hard to follow the threads i was on one of those I\u0027m the Shepherd on and I assure you trying to be a shepherd on one of those "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:43",
    "text": "to make sure that people\u0027s responses are dealt with is impossible because threads turned into Travis I so please be clear and crisp and then my last request is if you\u0027re going to do what Ted just suggested of let\u0027s open this up please don\u0027t assume its dns off dns has just had a couple of failures on coming to consensus on things like this I mean you can put Indiana stop if you want it to be a failure um which is I mean I can\u0027t guarantee a failure but we we do actually have a thread of sorry it was your clarifying question then do you want failure no my clarifying question is do you if you want this to happen please consider not just using the current tools but to create a new tool called a new working group yadda yadda so I I wanted to make it clear the working of the you guys really are in trust you have a a project ahead of you and you have some potential requirements to put it into the whatever you\u0027re doing but you need to be really really clear about what the implications of some of those requirements are so if you decide to go a particular path and that means a very lengthy process somewhere else outside the ITF and uncertain results if that\u0027s okay then you know by all means but but don\u0027t test you know pick a particular direction without understanding the implications so I think they\u0027re there are some reasonable choices ahead of us but you do need to make a sensible choice here Thank You Suzanne wall fence Denisov culture well I would dispute a few of Paul Hoffman\u0027s words as far as how Deanna\u0027s often stood on some of these questions I think it is important to note that one of the things that\u0027s come out of the inquiry on dns op is that many of the issues arising are out of scope and out of confidence for deanna\u0027s off these are not strictly dns issues they just express themselves in that way so the clarifying question for the working group given the process and operational discussions that seem to arise from this do you want to wait literally indefinitely for a resolution I have a question for this because last I ETF I mean it sounds like we\u0027re repeating this same set of options and the working group you know knew that it was walking into something that might be difficult in order to get the thing that it really wanted and it was given the option oh we could take this other thing did that aqua version not really what we want it could be more expedient that was the heart of the discussion last time and I just went back and reread the notes it was we decided to go the the longer harder route in order to get the thing that we felt like was you know really the best option for our you know community what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:43",
    "text": "has happened but what\u0027s different from last IETF to this idea just if you know what\u0027s the difference the IETF the iesg in the IAB have had more painful conversation since then that\u0027s what the working group as yari said we\u0027re in charge that\u0027s what the worrying group working group asked the I star to do on our behalf based on our consensus this is andrew sullivan so um I got up to I\u0027m speaking with no hat just even though my hat is like fading away I just want to be clear that I think Stephen no hat um I want to quibble actually with both yari and the statement you just made the working group is not in charge this is an ietf document it\u0027s going to go to IETF consensus so I agree with you that this working groups consensus has not changed and I don\u0027t actually understand why we need to re-explore this rat hole at the mic line here but I don\u0027t want people to to believe even for a second that working group consensus gets to determine what I etf consensus is because that\u0027s not how this organization works so so I I mean it might be that the area director is asking are you really sure you want to go to IETF last call on with this because you might find yourself in a bun fight where you have enough funds but um I don\u0027t care about that but I completely agree with you that this working group has already made its decision thank you for that clarification don\u0027t want to suggest for a second that the IETF is not ultimately in charge here I misspoke a little bit uh the the consensus of the working group was clear and I think now we\u0027re saying the same thing jumping up oh yeah sorry um Terry this is hopefully just a clarifying question is it in an email to a small group a few days ago you said that you believe that if we leave the request me insecure delegation in but we will not be able to publish the RFC until that is resolved is there an opportunity to perhaps to publish where we are not blocking on that decision it\u0027s possible I won\u0027t say a hundred percent but it\u0027s possible remove the insecure delegation you\u0027re not then trying to push something into another entities registry and you\u0027re really just talking about a special-use domain and to date I\u0027ve not seen anything substantive in terms of the 6761 review to say that that can\u0027t happen that wasn\u0027t quite what I was able it was could we at least leave mention of the desire for an insecure delegation in there because I think not in an ionic "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:45",
    "text": "considerations no so if you took that out of the ionic considerations and put it somewhere else to say at some point in time it might be really lovely to have my pony arm yes I think that might be a way forward but again we\u0027re in a fluid state right now and do the other one of considerations for us is that the insecure delegation is only required in the what\u0027s currently exceedingly rare case of a validation stub resolver these things are more like unicorns just open ponies um yeah I think it\u0027s very important that we do get a domain reserved as soon as possible whether that be got home that\u0027s all got home not offer I think it would be very unfortunate if we yep if this whole process was delayed because of that need from this cure delegation but I do also feel it\u0027s important as a working group that we somehow at least flag this is our ability of this not least because we\u0027re not the only people you need this issue with the mou resolved ralph drums actually have two responses the first mark us what\u0027s changed and just to be the clarification to that about what\u0027s changed is andrew pointed out the working census has not changed but there has been more official external review than there was as of the last working with meeting so we\u0027ve had a dns off working group review and we\u0027ve had a it\u0027s an indie area Directorate review that have provided more information that the working group may want to consider when it comes to consensus about what to do so so that has changed the second thing is in response to ray your suggestion that actually has been discussed i think it was discussed in public on the dns op working group review although and not not sure because i\u0027m working from memory i don\u0027t have the list in front of me there is a concern about separating the two requests one for the especially use the main name registry and the root zone entry in that if if if those two are separated and a bunch of code starts getting deployed with just home yet and then we find out as after we developed the process that we can\u0027t actually get the root zone entry for home net then we\u0027re stuck we can\u0027t go back really and take back all of those deployed devices to get the home DARPA so this not a reason not to do it but just just recording a concern that came up in those discussions yeah I\u0027m response to that Ralph I mean notwithstanding with a childhood not to require host changes a validating stop result that could actually just take a pot a trust anchor for the local domain I wish point everything will start working again it\u0027s it\u0027s a out of scope for this discussion I think just wanted to record the deadhead had been discussing that way Ted lemon so I don\u0027t know if you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:46",
    "text": "going to believe this is a clarifying question or not but and if it\u0027s not that\u0027s fine but is it is it generally understood that regardless of what the outcome of this discussion is we need to have the discussion with I can about precisely what the MOU says or do people really just not want to open that can of worms I mean is that what\u0027s going on I can\u0027t speak to that so I don\u0027t earn the MOU I\u0027m sorry I believe there are there are nope Angie\u0027s going to come to the mic thank you my name is Andrew Sullivan and I am NOT the chair of the IEP but I\u0027m still on the IAB for four days left and I am quite sure that there is no appetite to reopen an agreement where another party might have a very different opinion about what we want to do what we ought to be able to do there then then we might think when you have an agreement and you want to reopen that agreement and you want to start negotiating anything goes on the table so if you if you want to reopen an agreement with somebody the possibility is that you\u0027re going to end up negotiating for something and you\u0027re going to have to give something up and i\u0027m not sure what it is you want to give up in order to get this benefit if you want to get it but um you know you\u0027re going to have to reopen some things wide in order to do that so so if that\u0027s the discussion that people want to have first of all I\u0027m quite sure that this is not the working group of which it ought to be done and um and secondly I\u0027m not really sure that we want the result that we\u0027re asking for their because it could be quite interest I mean it seems to lemon again it seems from my perspective that if you if that\u0027s the approach that we take than what we\u0027re really saying is that the MOU has effectively been negotiated away from what it actually says and because we\u0027re not willing to know now I\u0027m sorry maybe a valid thing to do I\u0027m gonna jump in as ad here this is off topic of scope I Stuart cheshire listening to this discussion to something that puzzles me and I\u0027m wondering if there\u0027s some mistake in thinking going on I\u0027m hearing that in order to make this work we need the insecure delegation but the idea behind the special use names registry was that there are certain parts of the namespace that have different properties and the idea was to actually codify that and have a place you could look to find out what those properties are now in this case what we\u0027re saying is dome net has these special properties and and then while we\u0027re saying that we\u0027re also saying but we want validating stub resolvers to continue to work without you code changes and and in order to get that goal we want this thing in the in the root zone to make that happen but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:48",
    "text": "the whole point of having something in the special use name registry to say hang on a second different rules apply to this so if the people running the root zone wanted to put in an insecure delegation as a pragmatic thing to make legacy code work without you changes that might be a decision for them to make but it in no way affects our ability to say this name has the following special properties and if you are writing a validating stub resolver and you can play with this RFC you ought to be aware of those special properties and treat this name differently because if you don\u0027t your customers are going to be unhappy and they\u0027re going to disable your software because it\u0027s breaking their own network I didn\u0027t see any problem with that so Stewart it sounds like you\u0027re archit arguing that effectively the 67 61 application is already kind of a stretch of are chartering not to require host changes I guess when you put it that way yes it is because if you don\u0027t require any host changes you don\u0027t the name is not special if it\u0027s not special it needs to go into the does not need to go in the registry that\u0027s kind of a circular argument but if you want to name that special properties it that implies it is special in some way if it\u0027s not special it shouldn\u0027t be special useless okay hopefully it\u0027s the clarify ? mike Andrews home it is special the name is ambiguous that is what makes it special complete agreement so it especially so that is what that is the only thing that makes it special it that yep there is other things that fall out of that there\u0027s nothing that in the special uses registry the system that that an unmodified machine shouldn\u0027t go out to work that you have to actually modify a resolver to do things with it okay Oh make you know I\u0027m gonna ask a nice is take that off your money sorry function is Stewart not i\u0027m going to take ask you guys to take this offline this is not a clarifying question i don\u0027t see one coming anytime insane ok Ralph and then we should wrap up and decide where all next actors okay so Terry what would you mind was just a clarification on that discussion so so the next step is I think watch this space there are still more discussions to have this week i will email the working group when we see some clarity okay which case we will take a look to the list as well my plugs exactly okay thank you it would have been nice to have that what you read on the ipad there to the list beforehand so that we could have put it on a slide it was very hard to cash that in my head and I\u0027m sure it was forever but i\u0027ll send it to the list so yeah earlier the better this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:49",
    "text": "don\u0027t waive its situation but still um and I the one thing that I saw fall out of this is and I think what Stewart\u0027s comments sort of backed it up is it raised suggested hang on maybe we can separate this remove the secure delegation piece and still get a special use that\u0027s that\u0027s something that we teetered on last time and the decision was well we\u0027ll give it a try and if and we\u0027ll see if that\u0027s going to be the big deal that it is we should give the opportunity I think for the working group to allow absolutely unless or thing absolutely yep opportunity for the working group to to rethink anything along the way here I don\u0027t want to open up everything to Andrews point earlier right but that was that was literally added at the last minute last time oh wait you\u0027re gonna need an insecure delegation is that a problem maybe we\u0027re not sure yet okay we\u0027ll see all right so if we can I mean that was added at the last minute mile time in fact it was something that came up in discussion immediately after but often we can close last time it was lat last minute is the hang up let\u0027s get it back out and I think that I mean we\u0027re still within the cut within the context of the working group consensus which was the the TLD name rather than a dot r / Associated one it if that means we end up with a host requirement we can weigh that but you know let\u0027s let\u0027s not throw the baby out with the bathwater are you okay okay so thank you all on that note we closed meeting and give you an hour hour and a quarter of your legs back thank you and yet with them we won\u0027t please use this time to meet up with Julius and tared about the security thing at least okay okay and if we have blue sheets back please and if you have to sign them please make sure you do okay yeah you you yeah you\u0027re later yeah they have blue sheets the front and if you don\u0027t sign them from front side "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:09",
    "text": "hello then I am you "
  }
]