[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:02",
    "text": "And we will kick it off in now. All right Welcome Everyone can hear me. Sort of Welcome to Ops AWG, the Ops Area Working Group combined with Ops Area at the IETF 120. Thank you all for being here. Let's get started so we can get into our program Does that work? Everything you do here is subject to the Notewell so note it well. In particular, this is about how you participate, what you see is on record, and also how you come off to other people. We are an organization that likes to treat people with respect so we ask that you focus on the work, you focus on the tech technical, you focus on the professional detail of things This working group has had a great history of being respected and you work with your colleagues to hopefully achieve something great So focus on the work and be aware that what you say again is on record and subject to the note well And that's the note really well, is the you have recourse if you do feel you are being harassed we have an on on buds team but again this working group I I've been very proud to say has had a good history of working well together and being respected of each other So we are in person, for those of you in the room, for those of you online, welcome as well. We want to make sure that everyone is equal participating in these meetings So if you are here in person, make sure you do sky the QR code. You can see it over there on the left and get into the Meetecho Q or meetecho robot, either on your phone or the full tool on your laptop. If you do join on your laptop"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "make sure you don't unmute your audio And if you have a question, want to get to the mic, just join the queue in the app and then we will call you up to the mic in order. For remote participants, You're probably already using the meetecho robot and if you do want to get in the queue, you can just raise your hand to get in the queue. New to this meeting, we have the ability to moderate the room. Again, I've been very fortunate, we've been very fortunate that no one has been very disruptive, so hopefully we won't have to break out the new room moderation tool and we can all participate equally and respectfully We have an agenda We'll go over it briefly soon. We've already talked through the Meetecho stuff, and I sent out a preparation link ahead of time. And if there are any issues, you know how to report them. This also includes things like the network. We also take that into account as well Hank and I are your chairs today. We're your hosts Welcome again. For those of you on Zulip, the Jabber, does anyone want to scribe or go to the mic? and ask a question on behalf of someone who chats it? Anyone willing to do that? Just be like a proxy voice Please? Anyone Okay Anyone? Man. Okay. Hank, watch the thing. Okay Hank, watch the thing. Okay Okay Yeah, sorry, that was my fault matter. Yeah, sorry, that was my fault. Meetecho dash OR, not in Singapore, I guess, Oregon, not Singapore. Minute taker We do need minute takers to jump on into our notes. I've already said the notes up with the agenda. Who will volunteer? to take minutes for us? Jean, Kilboff excellent. Rob, you're off the hook"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "for once. Happy for any help But it is a collaborative tool If anyone wants to jump in and help Jean out, please feel free to do so A new slide. I just want to spend a moment on this. If anyone is out there thinking, man, I wish I could do more for the IETF and more for Ops AWG or Ops in general, they're are opportunities for you. First of all, you can ask as a document shepherd. And I am very grateful for the people who jumped in on the recent attachment circuits work to do that You can, at any point, if you feel like you want to act as a shepherd, to kind of defend a document, to get a document through the process, it is a great way to get to know how the IETF publishing process works and we're always happy to welcome new shepherds Likewise, there is a group called the ops Area Directorate or Ops Directorate, and they're work is to help the area directors out This is an opportunity to read drafts across the entire IETF spectrum with an opportunity hat on to try and say, does this draft? introduce any complexities, any challenges for operators? Are they thinking through the operator? challenges here? This might sound like it's daunting work, but I took to exactly from various ops director members. It can be as easy as I've read this document. I'm happy with the new version. It's ready to go from an operator's standpoint. You may find that, hey, there are issues here and I want to call them out. And you can do that. And now you're part of the problem And Warren is great at thanking you for all of your reviews as Ops Directorate So if you're saying, well, I'm not really ready to do like, chair type stuff but I do want to get more involved in the IETF, ops directorate is a great way to do it. And again, you will get a vast perspective"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "of the work that happens in the IETF. If you're interested in this, see our two Ops area director Warren, or Mahesh Oh, Warren, you had a, yeah Thank you. I was going to do the during the ops area time, but this felt like a better spot Speaking of volunteering, if anybody is interested in serving as the ops area director the 2024 NOMCOM cycle has just started up please come along and chat with me i'm more than happy to give you all sort of information on what the IESG is actually like, time commitments, you know, how fun it is what you get to learn, etc. So always happy to chat Thanks, Warren Thanks, Warren. In terms of our work, we had no new RFCs published since Brisbane, since 119. We have won the Redux or BIS to 90s in the RFC editor queue and there are some that have been many that have been sent to IESG for publication in very Q. And there are some that have been, many that have been sent to IESG for publication in various states. And I see that work has been happening on these even after the slide was created so this just gives you an idea some of this we um don't know that we'll get an update on any of these today but they are making progress, and I do appreciate the authors being responsive. We have a lot of drafts in process as working group items some of which we will hear from today There are two that I did want to call out. The TACX TLS draft recently finished working group last call, but some issues were pointed out that need some author attention and the authors are very much aware and thankfully they're looking for feedback specifically external PSKs what to do with that. So if you have a thoughts on this the authors sent a request for comment or comments to the list please provide feedback to them so we can move this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "forward and we'll do another working group last call when some of those issues shake out Mud acceptable URLs was returned to the working group by Mahesh to us and once another short working group last call that I think, Hank, you're going to kick off Yeah, cool. After the meeting after the meeting they'll kick that off excellent so those are two that that out as in progress work In terms of agenda bashing hopefully everyone has bashed it enough since we were good on dates this time and we met our draft and final agenda dates. We're going to hear from some working group items up front from Benoit, John, Jean Giuseppe, Medd, or Giuseppe, and then some non-working group items from Med Diego, Chaudet, Jean John, Jean, Giuseppe, Med, or Giuseppe, and then some non-working group items from Med, Diego, Chaudet, Jihoun, and Victor Then we actually have an ops area item Benoit will get back up here and talk to us about a redux of the management requirements workshop that the IAB has been working on. So that's pretty exciting And then we'll have some open mic So we encourage you to pepper our ops area directors with questions. Bashing Any other thoughts? I think we're good to go. I think the time for open mic is empty in this time frame, so let's start but we will keep everybody in the box. So there will be a timer timer And with that, I think we have Benoit. You're up first and you can control your own slides Okay, I'll control your slides So good morning. So this one is about exporting IP fix, exporting delay information in IP fix"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "Last slide, please So it's a brief summary of what we did So, as I mentioned, exporting delay in IPFix, a one-way delay We receive great feedback from many people. So we receive feedback from Politcom, designated text for IP fixture history. We see feedback from Greg, significant expert as IP performance metric we see feedback from IANA and read proof the document So why is important to receive this feedback? Because it's the first IETF draft that has metrics, performance metrics in one registry. And at the same time, the IP-fixing information elements. So what we receive as feedback mainly is that, OK okay, we want to make it more generic. It was many two focus on IOM, now this is focused on the draft from Carlos and Adrian I think about the OAM terminology So based on this feedback, which I consider, a kind of last call, because whenever you receive feedback, from the expert from IANA, from everybody, then we're good. So we publish a new version yesterday and basically this is kind of almost done for us I mean up to you the chairs to start last call but this is anyway, last call type of comments so that's a situation situation Yeah Questions, comments? I agree. I think you guys have been very responsive And I think we can call working group last call after this Very good. Thank you And I save you time. I know you'll like this John, I think you are remarkable remote"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "I see you popping up, but you're muted Um I was mute audio published He's a participant We can't hear you, John I gave him control There he comes No audio What am I missing? I'm on my side, does audio? Yeah it says well he's not asking to send anything you have control, I, you are a participant We just can't hear you and local site technical"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:05",
    "text": "audio issues here please move to the next one and I'll try to okay. So we're going to come back to John I thought I was doing it more or less right Okay, so Jean and you can control your own slides if you so desire desire Hello, so I'm John I'm going to present the updates on the draft about the Data Manifest for the telemetry data on behalf of the authors Joe, I come in Is it focused? It's focused Yeah, now it works now it works. Very good. So, yes so basically the goal of the going quickly because these are the same slides as the last time. So the goal about the data manifest is to recall how the data was collected, what were the telemetry options and so on, so that whenever later we get this data from a data data was collected, what were the telemetry options, and so on, so that whenever later we get this data from a database, we are able to understand why we have these data points, maybe why some are missing or why some are there So this is the goal of this draft Here, I'll just click through it for you Thank you. So the example is if you have a data point and then you don't have anything, it can be, because there is a bug, it can be because you actually have an unchanged subscription and there was no change Or it can be that you have some option to say, I don't want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "I don't, I want to get every, I don't know every day, the day and so it's been less than a day so basically the goal is to be able to capture this information Next slide, please So our proposal is to have on one end the platform manifest on the other end the data manifest so the platform manifest tells you basically the information about the platform. was the Vanda and so on, what models are supported and the data collection tells you how the data is collected So, next slide, please So the changes that I've done to this draft is so before we were using a lot of copy-pasting to build the young module, because we wanted to reuse the information about the data collection that is already in the young push model. We wanted to reuse the young language with augmentation and that was not easy to do in Young without doing copy pasting so in the meantime, we came up with another draft to do this kind of full inclusion of a model which is still being discussed And so what I did is in this version, I finally replaced the young module with the draft with this new extension to give a idea of how it would look like. And since this draft is basically based on the young schema munt, I also provided all the files so that we can use let's say, the schema mount to simulate how it would look like. And that's also the fallback plan So basically for schema mount, what you do is you specify your moon point and then you say in this moon point I will use this young library to to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "define the content of this moon point And so what we what we propose here as a fallback plan is we would enforce this young library to be used in the case of this particular model So this is the big change and I put all the support file in the appendix so I don't think they need to stay in the final version of the draft, but it's there in case any I put all the support file in the appendix, so I don't think they need to stay in the final version of the draft, but it's there in case anybody wants to see how it looks like Next slide, please So, yeah, so there is another draft which focuses on the data collection. And I think actually the two topics, the two scopes of the draft are a little bit different. So, actually I thought about it and I think I would answer this question. What I would say is the draft from Jan is more about having a global picture of the data processing. So it's more like the data lineage. Whenever you get the data you don't only know how it was collected, but you also know all the operation that it went through in order to obtain the data that you see at the end but you also know all the operation that it went through in order to obtain the data that you see in your at the end. In our case, I think we have more restricted focus we are focusing on on the collection, so maybe a way to combine the two would be to say in the philatel draft, we have only basic information about the collection and maybe that's enough for your use case. But if you want to have more data about the collection, for instance, all the young push information, then you could use what we are proposing here, and that would be how this too draft would work together next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "so so yeah so we are we have actually some some work to be done on the link with the inventory, but it's like actually ongoing. We should have that for the next meeting And otherwise, I think we are pretty much we're pretty much done with this draft so there are still the issue of the young, how to express the young but except of that we, I think we have pretty much everything and we just need to, yeah how to express the young, but except of that we, I think we have pretty much everything and we just need to polish the draft Any questions? Looks like you've got some in the queue Benoit. So, uh I've not spoken with the authors yet about this, but there is a normative reference to the full includes, which was but in NetMod yesterday and that receive a gentle go away meaning that oh maybe you should just update this one. Now, the thing I was trying to say yesterday is that either we do the free include now or we don't so maybe since this draft is ready, I propose that we remove the full include maybe put the appendix there So if it have happened in NetMod, fine, but we don't block this document with the fully include has been to come over and over until it's maybe part of the next Fine with me I think we have Yang"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "Thank you. So I think this is interesting work and the primary reason I haven't done much in this space in the Philatelist draft is that I know that you're working on it. So I expect to combine this work in the future in some way So I'm looking forward to see how we can make sure that they fit together. And also for Benoit I was not quite this I didn't have the same read from the NetMod meeting yesterday that it was a go away for the full include, not that hard anyway. So maybe there is some hope But of course, there's many amount drafts around right now so it's we need to merge them somehow thanks thank you yeah Med, oh, you want to. I can do it all med echoed what Benoit said. And as a chair, I was going to ask the question what is your cutoff date? for when you would pull out full include and go with schema? amount? And I like Benoit and Med's proposal I think that's a way to move forward. And Jan addressed my other thing of how filet-a-like, what's happening with that work? Another question? thanks. Thank you So, Jonas seems to be fine. Yep. Okay John. Okay, just testing you can hear me now. We can Slide control if you want Excellent. Thank you very much. I'm going to see much And we can see you. And we can see you And we can see you. Hi, everyone everyone and i can't give you slightly. Just go ahead and I'll take it Slide two, please, yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "There you go. I give it to you now Oh, okay. Great stuff. Thank you There we go So I think substantive update since we first published the draft, which I think as a working group draft, which is back in January, if I recall I think one of the areas for discussion around this particular piece, of work is that what we're presenting is an information model for how we report packet line not a data model, and the reason for being an information model is there are many ways that we could expose this so we can expose this via, via Yang we can expose this via IP fix, There are different ways that we could do it. So the idea was to come up with a implementation agnostic way of expressing the way that we should, or expose and classify packet loss without actually to defining the implementation method So a question then is, well, how do you express an information model? And we went through a couple of iterations, but based on feedback, from Med, since we first published the draft, was to use was to do it as an abstract, data structure in Yang. So that's the substantive change that we've made using the RFC 8791 extensions since the since we first published the draft The rest of the structure hasn't, there have been edits in it, but the rest of the structure hasn't fundamentally changed changed If we, and this slide hasn't, come out very well, apologies for that if we go with them to what do we do with the next model and with the information model, I think one point we for that. If we go with them to what do we do with the next model, and with the information model, I think one point we're very prominent of all is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "there's no point defining an information model if that information doesn't exist and especially as we're talking about exposing packet loss reporting from hardware, which takes my multiple years to develop So in terms of actually what's required to realize the data model after the information model, we have to be able to look at the underlying hardware counters on device depending upon devices, that can be certainly the ones we've looked at between 64 to 256.6 discrete drop counters and that's, sorry, discrete types of drop counters which may then even be multiplied by by line cards and so forth got to map those to the drop to the discard classes that we present in the, in the information model, and then ultimately expose that as some data to be defined data model So in that, sorry go back, in that first phase, we've got the mapping of essentially mapping of hardware counters to classes And that, piece we have, I think, some confidence in now that the information generally exists So certainly verified that across a number of platforms where we've been through that process of mapping underlying hardware counters to those discard classes. So that goes us a degree in confidence that the information that's presented in the information model is information that exists. It's not net new information that vendors are going to have to implement. It's obviously not an exhaustive list but it's, you know, it's certainly certainly quite a bit of coverage If you forget the slide again. So from that point then, with the realization of the information model is in one or more data"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "models, which is obviously subsequent work But I think the broader question for this team then is what else? does the working group believe is required of this information? model draft in order to in order to out? And I'm sure there'll be some discussions around information model versus take model Rob's getting in the queue Watch this mic, is it on? I think so So this is a long way back. So just look at the draft now quickly. I had one quick question. I can't answer your question as well needs to be done. But in terms of the model, it uses 48-bit counters in places which is an unusual choice. Most of the implementations I've seen have gone either 32 or 64 bits I'm wondering if there's a good reason for doing that. I know it's an informational model, but where you can then use directly Yeah I think I think that's a valid question. And, and, um, if there's a good reason for doing that. I know it's an informational model, but where you can then use directly. Yeah, I think that's a valid question. And I guess the original definition had 64-bit, and then the feedback we got from several vendors was 64-bit across all those counters is more than is needed for those things that don't increment with a high rate. So, for example, if you've got a you know, some error discards counters increment at a very, very low rate and don't need you know, but don't need very, the full 64 bit. So went down to 48, but that wasn't because that was really dropping from 64 to something else not that those specific counters needed 40 It was more an indication that they didn't need 64"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "So I think that's a valid question, Robert. Open for, open for feedback. Yeah, I mean, I would probably choose 32. For the ones that's smaller, I think for our drop counters, that was my experience I don't know for the high-speed interfaces about its changes, but we normally have either gone with 32 bit counters or we jump up to 64 64-bit if it's like a higher rate yeah and I think that's fair comment and you know things when we're talking pack when we're counting packet discards of rare errors, yeah, absolutely. Okay thank you. Thank you you Hello, John, this is the area that I was nominated as Sheffered us by Hank. Thank you. So far, the only thing I offered to you was apologies for the delay That basically, I mean, looking at it and having time to read it, I believe that this work I would say that I don't see I don't see things that are required Well, there will be needs like the one Rob was highlighted that are, let's say, unusual but precisely the the unusual nature of these work is something that they believe is quite interesting. For a very long time, we were talking about don't do information models because we are and having our exploring a way of making a formal definition of information models using Jang is a quite interesting result apart from the my throat the uh conditioning is killing me. The is a quite interesting result. Apart from the, my throat, the air conditioning is killing me. It's a quite interesting way of going beyond in something that is happening right now man zhang that is about thinking in terms as well of set different levels of abstraction to talk about the same thing using consistently using the language. Yesterday, during the NetMod, kent watsen talking about the idea of when"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "jam, too, et cetera, and probably these could be interesting way to start thinking about it So I put this in reading and going more detail, but I wanted to share this here Yeah, I see it Thomas speaking, first of all, great work. I think that the model looks fairly complete very well thought of, so thanks a lot for that. And to answer your question, what could be a possible next step is maybe to show you how this information model could be true translated into a data model just maybe one so we can see how it's being met and I think that would validate it Yeah, well, thank you. Thanks, Thomas Yeah, I think we've got scope to do that. And I think we've got scope to to To look at at perhaps open sourcing some of the underlying details to make that, to make that clearer So, yeah, I think that's good feedback. And I think so details to make that, to make that clearer. So, yeah, I think that's good feedback. And I think, I think some of a concrete explanation, a concrete example would make sense. Thank you. Great. Thanks. Thank you Thomas Thank you. I'm Mahesh J. Turner and I I, on the question of data model, I've been and looked at RFC 8342, which is the Yang model for interface And, of course, there is a definition for Indiscards in there And I'm wondering if the only thing here that might need to be done is to update the description to define more clearly what you're trying to mention in this particular draft That's just one suggestion. I don't know if we necessarily need a new data model for that. Yeah, yeah, so I think if you if you look at the underlying detail, there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "are multiple classes of discards that we break out here so I think I think I have in discards is I would say the problem that we're solving. So we're not just redefining what IFN discards means but we're actually breaking discards down so that we can separately report a no route discard from a null route discard, from a congestive loss discard, from an error discard, etc Because as an operator, what type of discard it is, fundamentally changes the actions that you need to take to fit it. So, so know, very much this is not a just a, you know, a new description on I think discards. This is very much a, you know, new set of discards metrics. Okay. Fair point. In that case, at least what it means currently in the draft probably will need to be updated to say there is a broader definition or this is what it includes now and there is this other model that probably has more reference to the further breakdown of if in discuss as an example example Well, and please have other input to keep me honest, what I'd imagine here is that if we consider this information model, it's saying this is the way that we'd like to report packet discards in terms of the buckets we'd like them to be in and the hierarchy we'd like them to be in, but not the way that we'd explicitly like to expose that and then subsequent drafts would actually defile say, for example, how we would expose this in Yang, how we would expose this in IP fix and whichever other methods we choose to use So I think the idea of the information model in this context is to really define the framework within which we think about how we would like to report this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "Okay. Thanks, John As a chair, Diego's comment kind of has been the thing that's keeping me up as to how this moves forward If you read the guidelines for Yang authors and reviewers, you're using standards track naming in an informational model. So the thing that struck me is I think I using standards track naming in an informational model. So the thing that struck me is I think I'd want more Yang doctors chanting around this to see how this moves forward and what might need to change to adhere to current guidelines. I think this is great work. Don't get me wrong, it's just more of procedure thing on my part is how do you, I have not seen a yang. In fact, I think you're a did a presentation a while back that said, use U.S for information models. And I love like Diego said, using Yang, but we already have some guidelines here. So I'd like to get more input on how to move this forward so that we're not stepping on process, if that makes sense. Absolutely yeah. Yeah, no, I definitely take guidance on that Thank you Thank you very much All right. So we did the thing we did the thing, alternate marking information information Welcome, Giuseppe. I'd give you slide control, but now it's not working, so just tell me next slide It is not it is not. The range is I think it's the range or say. This is an update about the recently adopted draft on the IPFix alternate marking information elements yeah I am presenting on behalf of the co-authors. Next slide Yeah, just to recap, so we start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "from the RFC-9343 IPVC option that define the extension to apply alternate marking to IPVV and you can find that basically the IPV6 option contains three main elements that are the flow monitor identification, the loss and delay flags. We want to use the most of the existing IPFix entities, IPFix information elements for the export of alternate marking data And in particular, we use the IPFIX payload packet section to identify the extension headers. While for data correlation and aggregation we are using existing entities such as source address, bot IPV4, PV6, transport port, protocol identifier and so on And we define new flow keys that are Flomone ID, lost flag, and delay flag. And we also define a period ID that is not the flow key but it is needed for correlation aspects, as explaining the alternate manner deployment draft in IPPM working group now slide for calculation, so for measurement, the packet count, can be done using the octet delta count or packet that count. And for the delay, there are different information elements according to the timestamp granularity requirements we can have in the end, this straightforward document simply request Ina to create a new registry called IPFix alternate marking to include Flomon ID, loss delay flag and period ID next line yeah after the adoption we had the questions from Matt about the operation mode"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "So to basically suggest you had more clarification for probably for people that are not very familiar with the alternate marketing methodology And I will do that in the next version so basically each node need to export the packet counters and time marking methodology, and I will do that in the next version. So basically, each nodes need to export the packet counters and timestamp at each period of the monitored flow according to the alternate marking operation and to identify and export these data it is needed the combination as said of already existing information elements and new information elements that are introduced in this draft Comments are welcome and yeah, thank you I have a couple minutes, if there are any questions are coming up in one Benoit draft, however what you had in the previous slide about Flo Keys, that nature me thinking. Because there is an IP fix what we want from IANA which is information elements, and there is an IP fix the metering process, how a router should do it for example so whenever you say it's a flow key well, this is it's not something you have in IANA. Now, if you want to say, for a specific use case, this is how I would define my flow and some of them would be flow keys is different. So I'm going to review your draft with that aspect in mind. Otherwise, I know Now, if you want to say for a specific use case, this is how I would define my flows, and some of them would be flow keys is different. So I'm going to review your draft with that aspect in mind. I mean, it can be promoted as flow keys, but they are not focus basically are reform flow keys, it's different. So I'm going to review your draft with that aspect in mind. I mean, it can be promoted as flowkeys, but they are not blockies. Basically, are information elements, but they can be promoted Yeah, it's right Thank you for the clarification Questions? Thanks, Giuseppe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "That is the end of the adopted work and now we're going to get into some individual draft first from Med Thank you, thank you, Joe I don't know if I have the control. Okay. Yeah. So this is this minute to present, I would say, the, um, the, uh, the data tax, um, yeah So, Eang model. Uh, so just to, um, to refresh our mind on, I would say, some, what we have for mine we indeed working with has done some of the work about the tag X and the deal we have with the IESG, with progress in some of these specific areas So when the Working Group published, I would say the RR 8907, the deal was really clear this is something which is not secure we know the flaws on the specification, but the IETF agrees to pass the RFC 8907, the deal was really clear. This is something which is not secure. We know the flaws of the specification, but the IETF agrees to publish this because we expect that we have more extensions in the future with more, I would say, security and proven overall it. But then the working will send another document to the IG, but at the time it's in 2021 by defining the YANG model and then there is some pushback from the AIG that you are asking us to do something which is not deploying technology defining the Yang model and then there is some pushback from the EEG that you are asking us to do something which is not deploying tech as it is but a new extensions and that that time a rob which who used the um the ops area director at the time um made an agreement which is right. That means that, yes, we agree with that, but we need some point to start starting points so that we can do some feature work on the modeling and we need to wake what is in the in the in the base tech x document um so the then the um the iG accepted to uh to feature work on the modeling. And we need to echo at what is in the in the base TechEx document. So then the EIG accepted to publish the Young Data Models for TechEx and then I requested the authors to include a warning, the abstract, which is weird for me at a time tech acts, and then I requested the authors to include a warning, the abstract, which is weird for me at the time, and even including something, which is some normative text in the abstract but with nothing I would say can create as actionable in term of, I would say, you have a requirement there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "but you don't know how to do it. But the key, point is that in the term of the model itself, there was a lot of discussion at the time, how we can graph something and prepare the modeling to host in the future, more robust and more secure, safe level flavors of TACAX itself, so that you can have something really, really backward comfortable so we know that what we had in terms of specification is is really I would say limited in terms of security features and we promise to to provide something which will be more robust in terms of security functions. So then the question is, why in say limited in terms of security features and we promise to to provide something which is mere will be more robust in terms of security functions so then the question is why now and why we need to have to reopen this discussion it's I think it's it's it's merely because we we haven't need to have to have to reopen this discussion? It's I think it's it's mainly because we have now a good specification in terms of as if you tell us specifications and it's the last mile if we want to assess whether the provisions we have in terms of specification in terms of management functions are really adequately covered are sufficient or there is something which is really missing in terms of specifications that you need to be to be covered in the base specification itself. Blindly reusing the current tailis grouping may not import complexity, which may not be justified. So when we itself. Blindly reusing the current tailies grouping may not import complexity, which may not be justified. So we need to reassess some of the points and some of the data nodes are defined in the TELAS group in themselves So the scope of the of the current draft is basically to limit it to what we have in the current the current TECA TALS 103 is basically to limited to what we have in the in the current tech status 1.3. So this is that on top of the usual life functions and some of the I won't reiterate all of them. So those are just I would say listed here in this slide. So you can read them so when we uh started doing the exercise of the on SSMD in terms of the mudd can read them. So when we started doing the exercise of the on assessing the in terms of the management management management are in the in the base specific there was some gaps. There is some lack of I would say explicit behavior of what we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "intended in term of implementation There is a list of items that I have already shared during the EU working with last call and that was derived from this world mainly what should we do when we just configure for example a notification domain name or when we had bought the list of IP addresses and then at the domain name should we do the resolution of that or just use it for the authentication domain and so on how do we really need to have the keep alive at the tailess level for the tech access self or we can cover that at the application layer so all of this we don't have, I would say, clear answers in the in the current specifications. So, and I hope that the in the next iteration of the tech axe TLS layer. So all of this, we don't have, I would say, clear answers in the current specifications. So, and I hope that the, in the next iteration of the TACTS, we will have answers to those to those gaps. So now for the issues in term of I would say progress in the current modeling of the TETES part of a configuration of TechX say, progress in the current modeling of the totalist part of a categorical attack act. There are two points, the first one, whether we continue with the current approach, which is just augmenting the existing one, or we go for this I personally don't have any preference on that one. I know that the authors of RFC 9105, they also ask me whether we need to go for Abiza or not. So that's a question for the working group. And the other one, whether we will use, I would say, a pruning approach that we have currently in the current version of the draft rather than blind reusing the grouping we have in the in the TLS client server. The minimum motivation why we're using was not that that easy that we wanted to factorize some of the eye of the configuration at the call that configuration under the various server instances and that one was the that easy to do by constraining the data node that are in the in the European models I guess that these two points can be, I would say,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "we can continue discussion on them. This is not error even if the document is working the working of access to adopt it. And this is the request I'm making for the working group is to consider adoption of these specifications so that we can have something that will fulfill, I would say, what we have from ours to the age in the past. And that's it all for myself side Questions? Rob Wilson, Cisco thanks, but I think this is really useful work. I think this is a great thing to be doing I think it's ideal. So in terms of those things, and all augment sounds good to me. I don't I'm not sure about the second one. I would suggest probably just trying to reuse the groupings directly, but I don't know the exact context, but I would like to see this work go forward I want a poll on adoption Yeah we got a few minutes we'll see if there's interest As a contributor, on one, I mean, I guess it would depend on whether or not the working group adopts it. It seems that a Abyss might be ultimately a better approach given the security changes with this That's just my gut reaction to it, though But it looks like Hank's going to start up a poll for those of you who have read it or are in support. So want to yeah a poll for those of you who have read it or are in support. So, you want to... Yeah, basically, meet Equals. You have a very simple question raised hand means you are in support of an adoption that is an in-room virtual and physical assessment. The actual working group adoption question will be on the list And meanwhile, Mahesh can use the mic Yeah, while people are responding to the poll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "Joe, is the poll related to also the question you were asking? Is this a bit? or okay is that a separate poll no that's was just my, well, he was typing, just the thought that came to my mind. This is more about support adoption, period, not, ultimately I think the working group will decide on that first question. I was just giving my contributor opinion So we have a good number I'll give you 10 seconds and then you're up out So, okay, then there's some objection in the room here right now, but there's a significant numbers of our So that means that more eyes on that part maybe would be necessary, but because incorporate these numbers in the adoption call and the summary of the document on the list to remind everybody to have a look. Thank you Thanks, Med Mad What happened? Okay applying cozy signatures for Yen data provenance Thank you no. Sorry that's Diego, okay okay Okay, this is a good, and we brief It's about the proposal for using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "causes signatures for data provenance can you move on? Good bless. So the news is that well, since Prince Wayne, the document has been quite stable It is what we have achieved these four enclosing methods, etc We are trying to progress with a reference implementation so we make it a and we are we are trying to progress with a reference implementation so we make it and make it real and can demonstrate what we are trying to do. There is an annex with the examples that have been generated with this reference implementation that for the moment is able to work generating signatures and verify signatures with three of the defined closing methods and using XML The idea is to extend the whole thing to the form closing methods or any other that we consider and to use the three encodings that we are considering, XML JSON and Sibo. We are working on that and the plan is to bring a demonstration for the next hackathon And for that, one of the things that we're looking as well is not only that we have our staff but to play with something that can be considered at device or a source of the data we have started to talk with the people in the particular in FRR to use an opening source implementation so we can play with both sides and demonstrate this, hopefully in Dublin From the discussion we have been considering other use cases that are very much related to the accountability and auditability of whatever happens and in that discussion today, other cases appear and looking at ongoing work I believe that they are connected to this auditability and when it comes to the concurrency"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "or facilitating and making better the integration with PAPS up or Kafka if you like and time series DBs. So again, it's about making the whole chain of the production and consumption of the data, something that can be outbitable There is a a... Don't worry. Is that during the discussion with jan lindblad, some and an additional enclosing method that during the discussion with Jan Limblet, some additional enclosing may those appear. This is something I've had to consider. No, please So, basically, the only thing that is open apart from this, that we are working on that, is the hosting issue There was some comments. Whether this belongs to NetMob, this, I was thinking whether this could belong to MMO as well the point is that we believe this the solution at address an operational issue and is not associated with particular protocols or is even with model the network. We are not modeling anything We are modeling trust, not the network, not the network devices And the idea is that well, I believe it's a, we believe it's a right matter. That's why we have different enclosing methods. And what we are trying to to improve how we are monitoring and controlling so the plan and our intention is to request of so adoption though I think that is wiser and more adequate to do this when we have the reference implementation, when we can show some results you can I think that is wiser and more adequate to do this when we have this reference implementation, when we can show some results. Whoever is willing to present with it, can play with it and have some feeling Something that, talking with, jan lindblad he had some issues and wanted to discuss we were thinking about organizing some kind of side meeting or a direct conversation between us if any of you are interested let me know so we can organize something that is for more than we too than we do. And that's all"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "Questions? Flash first. Here comes me head head Mahesh. On the question of adoption, did the chairs have a chance to talk? to NetMod and what was the agreement? Yes, so yesterday and Diego, I like you a lot I talked to the NetMod group, the NetMod chairs and they expressed interest in having this in NetMod They said they think there is a more than half more than 50% chance it would live there and do well there. So with that in mind and given the comment you got in 119 at NetMond to come back with the implementation, I think you're playing of the hackathon idea is good and then go to NetMod for adoption there. Okay. I mean, as I said, they'd be it's more operational, but I can live with that I'm not going to argue about that because I believe that's the important thing is that we get that moving on right and I think you already kind of addressed the question that I had with Jan's comment on you using transaction ID to identify the source. I think that's a good idea, but it's a suggestion for you to work out with him and see Jiming, using Jan's comment on a transaction ID using transaction Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's something, yes. This is something that is ongoing in the discussion with, Jan. Yes, is it my in the list of to-do things that I'm, yeah Apart that when I updated the draft, I there was 42, two Jan errors in the in the tool and I had to check them as well So I didn't mention that because, you know Okay, per andersson, Cisco, I think this is valuable work I appreciate that you do it. I'm still surprised that you used the COSI sign 1 entity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "instead of cosy sign, so you can only have one signer instead of several. And I have a comment on this before yeah I know and well but let's take that up list andres olave it I think it's valuable to have multiple signatures No, that's something I, in a moment, we with we thought that it was easier to, for us precisely thinking about the reference implementation first and second, that the idea if you want to nest several signatures it would be good to have it in separate elements. That's the main reason for this We can discuss about that. Thank you Can't watch some what's networks so first with regards to net mod chair i think it was more we express willingness more so than moving on interest, about like where would it be best received or reviewed After sitting with Diego this morning, he presented to me as well and now listening again I have to agree that NEMOP might be a good spot for it. It does seem more operational I don't think it affects the Yang modeling language in any specific way. So anyway, you know, it doesn't have to be NEMUT. That's now as a contributor Again, sitting with Diego this morning, you shared with me how the signature, the idea is to move it to canonical format, Seabor, and then do the signature on that and yet it's the signatures over the content of the document and I'm just wondering why isn't the signature on the content of the document using whatever encoding it is so you know if you're receiving XML or JSON or C-W, I don't just sign that i think that this is something that i mean if we look at the examples, it would be clear. What you're doing is that we are using C-BOR is something that, I mean, if we look at the examples, it would be clear. What you're doing is that we are using Seabor because for the computation of the signature or the validation of the signature, we are using COSI and that's CBO And then what we're doing is that for transporting it, we are transforming it if required into a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "base 64. That makes it slightly bit longer but still is concise that's because one of the idea was, doesn't make it a base 64. That makes it a little bit longer but still is concise. Because one of the idea was, doesn't make any sense if you're sending, let's say, half a page of jan with two pages of signature that's something that sounds a little bit like throwing the baby with the bathwater. That was the main reason for using COSI. It's extremely powerful in that sense in making it compact. And then when you use Base 64, it's a little bit longer, but only a little bit With examples, I guess this is why I wanted to bring the initial implementation to this meeting to show how it works because I think that is a typical thing that's when you see it at play is easier to understand Okay, and I only come to that opinion thinking about technology stacks and if I don't have you know, Seabor in my technology stack, I would have to introduce it to my technology stack, just go to the signature. So that's where I'm coming from. No, again, I you know, Seabor in my technology stack, I would have to introduce it to my technology stack, just go signature. So that's where I'm coming from. No, again, if we can find an alternative way of making concise signatures, I will have a check. Recently I see this is a HOC or something like that. That is being discussed inside here in the IETF And I have, again, in my two review list to have a look at it and see whether it could be applicable So well, we're talking doubly That's my take, right? Thanks, I go. In terms of what Kent just said about adoption I think we'll talk with NMob We'll find a home. I think there's clearly interest in this work. Thank you. Thank you So you're right in time again Yay, Yang Data Model 4 for scheduled OAM Luis. Or, ah, Victor Victor's presenting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "Hi, I'm Victor Lopez from Nokia Yeah So I'm preaching the aim of this work is essentially to cover the configuration of the aim of this work is essentially to cover the configuration and to manage the lifecycle of OEM test in a network-wide basis. Okay. So the main problem that there is with OEM is that you have to take into account different aspects during the creation of the test the test you have to configure for example in the case of twilight, a reflector, you have to create the source or configure trigger the source of the source of the you have to configure for example in the case of twilight a reflector you have to create the source or configure trigger the source of the test in order to reach this reflector and the result to come back again. And the end that we have with this work is to extend or to create a model adding the status of these tests and also scheduling parameters for the OEM test Our aim is not to redo the wheel and redefine a game OEM models that they have already been defining in IETF, but to reuse them So the proposal that we are bringing to the working group comes with two main ideas. One of them is the concept of the OEM unitary test. That is I want to for example, create a loopback test from A to B. And the second concept is the OEM test sequence, where essentially it would be to concatenate and to define first I want to do, I don't know three look back tests or a link trace, later measure the delays on a measure the delay after that Victor, did you want to take any questions in the queue now or do you want to wait to the end? I can take them now, no problem. Greg? greg mirsky Erickson this is very interesting work I have like two-part question It seems that you mentioned T1Poo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "Polite. The fact is that TLAM polite is non-standard and the T-wamp model does not allow to control T-wamp light, because T-wamp is a continuation of control protocol and the test plane So I think that you can look at the model and see whether you protocol and the test plane. So I think that you can look at the model and see whether it's really applicable to your case The second is that IPPM work working group is to conclude and I'm guilty of dragging too long the data model for stamp protocol, which is evolution of Twamp family or WAMP family and it also stamp protocol, which is evolution of T-WAMP family or WAMP family. And it already has ability of scheduling repetition of sequences and reporting some, but I appreciate you taking a look at sharing your thoughts and comments to the Ops area and IPPN work group. Perfect. Much appreciate it. Thank you Thank you for the feedback We will have a look into, into a stamp the aim of the of this model is to be, let's say, generic I was trying to use examples, so we could cover let's say, any other OEM technique So the use cases that the this case, the other quote for Luis from Telephonic was targeted in us are the four that we we can see here so the first one is travel shooting. So in the case that there is an issue in the network to trigger OEM unitary therapy or a test sequence in order to find where the problem is The second is a birth certificate where after provisioning a service you want to measure the quality of the service. So you provide a report after the delivery of this service. Practice supervision is used to monitor the SLAs that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "you can have with with, well, party that you are selling a service And the four-use case where we believe that this schedule, of OIEN test can be useful if for PATH compute element scenario This work was already presented in two IETFs ago The word that we have been doing is to add the reference to the network incident effort that is been done in MMO. Also, we have been have been working on the jant trees and to improve the model And there has been, we are re-use the work in NetMod for the scheduling so essentially we are importing the module that is a defining in NetMod and we have been updating and aligning the draft with this work. Finally, we have a data is defining in NetMod, and we have been updating and aligning the draft with this work. Finally, we have added a section, and I will comment on this in the next slide to see which is the proposal or how we can use the device models within the OEM scheduling model in order to explain the word I mean, we wanted to have feedback from the working group for the audience here, and Jan was before talking about the Jan full integrated approach or the scheme amount is in the way that we are defining the unitary test, as you can see on the slide. There is an area that we just have a placeholder is called test type And in this test type area, we would like to embed or in import the other models that are defined in IETF. Stamp can be one example, Ethernet CFM or any other test type. So this way in this work, we won't have to redefine the OEM configuration but just say, hey, I want to create a test type Ethernet CFM with a given period with this recurrence and also we are adding a state machine to present which is the status of this test, if it is running,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "if it is a stop or if it has finished so thanks to the comment of Benoit I think that partially I got an answer of how we can tackle this test type, and maybe we should follow the schema amount approach instead of using the full include due to the conversation that we are having in the in NetMod mode. So unless there is a different feedback what we will do is to update the draft with this approach with the scheme amount and in the next IETF we will present it to the world You can move to slides Two slides? Yeah. So as it essentially the objective of today session is to collect your feedback See if the work is of interest. Also, we had this modeling issue with the schema mount and the jump will integrate that if will work with the scheme amount Also, we got comments from met in the mailing list First version I have already included in the GitHub that we are working and what we will do is to prepare a new version for the next IPF and keep it refining the model So that's all I have for today. Thank you I'll raise my hand. I have a question As a contributor, so you address, you address Thank you. I'll raise my hand. I have a question. As a contributor, so you addressed what your placeholder meant because I read the draft and like what are they going to do there thank you why is the state machine read right? right? yeah it will be read yeah okay so so i you. Why is the state machine read right? Yeah, it will be read, yeah. Okay, so the intent is the state machine will be updated as the test runs. You don't manually set the state machine. Yeah there are the state it should be read just to say what is the status but you you need to create start the test and stop it. So there are some intermediate test that you may have to work on it. So, yeah, I will think, I need to think about it. Okay, thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:05",
    "text": "Where are we? scheduling? Hello, this is Paul Zhang, I'm from SKQ So today I will introduce Intender management framework for software-defined vehicle in IT Next slide, please So this is our line. So basically, the software vehicle is nowadays very famous So it is based on native cloud and operator system like a smartphone Next slide. So in the industry, especially Eclipse STVE, is a standard body for the development of software defined vehicles framework. Currently, you can see they are using the network function virtualization concept and the native cloud. Next Also, Autosah is automotive open architecture for software platform. So basically they can provide some platform to develop the application based on the operator system for automobile vehicle basically they provide the auto-saclass classic control, the ECU, and Autosar Adaptive Platform for Development for AI, Machine Learning related intelligence application development. Next slide So also, the SOP also another standard open source project They providing scalable open architecture for embedded etchi, like a software to define the Beaker etch computer system Next slide. So you can see in the past, the automotive car is using distributed architecture like the electronic control unit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:02",
    "text": "connected by the controlled error network like a CMP. Nowadays you can see a light-hand side you can see the beaker is trended to centralized or so joint architecture So zone control is ECU, like the automotive mechanics however HP high-performance computer providing some more intelligent computing system for some autonomous drivers etc. Next slide. So this draft is tried to propose how to configure and how to manage the automotive software defined the vehicle, especially you can see figure one case shows the vehicular architecture and the big figure 5 is showing in-big network. So nowadays the in-veyor network is considered of the gigabit isn't a letter than C architecture and the figure five is showing in-vehicle network. So nowadays the in-vehicle network is consisted of the gigabre eastern a letter than CMP or Plex Lake, necklace light, right please. So you can see, nowadays, the Autosa, and SOP, and the Eclipse SDV, they are working together to develop architecture or software defined vehicle platform. So you can see in the middle we have your real-time operating system and also it's providing application like some intelligent like some adaptive driving, advanced driving assistance system for autonomous driving system. Next slide So, the NMR published the article C about the intent-based management like lifecycle of intent-based system So we, our proposal, this draft is planned how to adapt that concept into SDB STV-IAB system. Next slide So the main slide we propose software framework developed for SDB. So we have two parts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "The upper side is the vehicular cloud control the SDB, and the bottom figure is a software defined vehicle itself So our goal is we try to identify the important system components and the interfaces. If we are driver want to some autonomous driving the in intent is given to the SDB user. It can translate into a specific policy and then deliver some safe driver for autonomous driving over navigator for human driver. Next slide. So our goal is we tried to identify a system component others for autonomous driving over navigator for human driver. Next slide. So our goal is we try to identify a system component, but also we want to identify the interface Eventually, if this working group, agree on this draft, we try to develop a young data model for important interfaces. Next slide, please So also the application based on this one I believe nowadays the SDV is very important. The IETF also I suggest to pay attention STB because many in automotive vendor, they invest this one. So IETF also needed to prepare these kinds of some future demanding standardization next slide So let's hack us on IETF 120 last Sunday, my students and I, and collaborate, we are approved concept using Hekasson project in the peak it shows the SDB, the administration STB user made some intent like want to monitor STB, like speed direction, something like that. That information is delivered to SDB through SDB, some edge computing and then they can report their some monitoring data to cloud analyzer, and then they can diverting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "this long time, and then they give some good feedback for safety. Next slide So this is a last slide. So I will also want to polish up this one Also we can enlist this one Especially last day I submitted to another draft more generalized this framework in the last day, I submitted to another draft more generalized this paramal interface. It is called the Interface to In-network Functions, I-2-I-NF So I would like ask you guys read this draft and give feedback. I hope we can make some progress, this SDV and in-net computing sites in this opposite of you Thank you for your okay listening. Any question? comment? As chair, so this work, I didn't see any comments on the list, any discussion I don't know if there is if the, I wouldn't say interest if there's knowledge or if there's domain expertise in ops area working group around this area, we, if there is interest, we would like to see that discussion obviously, on the list And, you know, we can also look to see where it there might be a better fit for some of this work Certainly what I was thinking just as a contributor is I look through the slides, how much of this is very specific to the vehicle area versus standard or more traditional challenges that you would have in a, in managing a network connected device But before we move or even consider adoption, we'd want to see more input from the list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "Mehesh. Yeah So I said interpatient to in that talk computing a draft case uh we consider coin rg some computation i think that is a more comfortable for our group This activity is a more specific example so I tried to that drop to try to more general So this one can be emerged. And then that can I think our group can contribute. So please yeah lead the interface to Nato function trap problem statement and the framework, and then we can discuss in the analysis. Okay. Okay the framework, and then we can discuss in balance. It might be good for you to go to the opposite area working group at ietf.org and say that and you know be very clear what you want, what discuss you want on the list. Okay, sure Okay. Go ahead. Mahesh. I wanted to echo just come that I think one way to kind of skin this scat would be to maybe break this one out into pieces where the specific management piece is something you can bring to ops or any other the other working groups whereas the specific of what the software defined vehicle pieces are taken somewhere else where probably there's a better fit for it. Okay, thank you My suggestion. Okay, thank you So any anything else? Okay, so this is the first introduction problem yeah, that we can discuss in Melanese, the more. Okay. Please do. Thank you Jim. Okay, thank you, yeah And, uh resource, Yang data model for research performance monitoring Ming shu yang. Am I heard? Joe. We can hear you bear yang. Am I hurt? Joe? We can hear you barely. Well, I can hear you barely. Maybe the room has more audio. No, please speak up, please Let me turn on the audio"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "Is it better now? Oh, yeah much better now Okay, let's start. Hi guys, this is Ming shu yang from Huawei. The work I can control the slides now, right? You have control of the slides. Yeah, the work we present today is a young data model for resource performance monitoring Okay The document originally for focus on resource PM in optical domain So it is a CCM draft And recently, we generalized the model for both IP and optical domain during the science CCAM draft. And recently, we generalized the model for both IP and optical domain. During this IETF, we will present the work in both CCAMP and OpsAWG to seek for more comments and feedback feedbacks First, oh both C-Camp and OpsAWG to seek for more comments and feedbacks. Oh, Joe, this is the old version slides. Okay, yeah I uploaded it to Datatracker. Would you please play the new version? Hold on, let's see Thanks Oh, well, my connection died Uh, okay the slides now. Hold on You may reload the slides Oh, revision one, okay let me do that Well, it didn't ah, there it is Is that weird? you're looking for? Yeah, yeah, yeah This is the new version. Thank you Thank you, Joe First, here's an example to illustrate the model usage in a scenario of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:02",
    "text": "service degradation analysis. As we know, when service degrades, it is essential to find out and confirm the root cause quickly So the service disruption and users compliant is avoided. As we know, a service degree the service disruption and users compliant is avoided. As we know, a service degradation may be caused by different kinds of faults and degradations on different devices in IP and optical domain. So in this example, when the OSS noticed that the packet loss of an L3 VPN server, is too much crossing threshold, it has to query the performance data of both IP and optical devices to analyze the root cause of the problem. Here we can see the error packet number of interface 1 on device P is increased and the received optical power of termination point 1 on device 02 reduced during the past hour Based on the correlation analysis, it can be up that the root cause is fiber degradation between device 01 and device 02 And then a ticket could be dispatched to repair the fiber degradation problem Although we notice that if an incident notification directly indicate a root cause, then in step two, the engineer only have to query the performance data to confirm the correctness of the root cause and directly perform step four For multi-domain operation scenarios, such as the example we just mentioned, we noticed that there's no uniform model for PM data retrieval in IP and optical domains In addition, there's no uniform model for T"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:02",
    "text": "data retrieval in IP and optical domains. In addition, there's no uniform model for TCA configuration leading to high integration and operating cost. The model we proposed could provide uniformed PM mechanism for both IP and optimal domain, enabling efficient operation and maintenance, and also enabling performance visibility for troubleshooting in multi-domain multi-layer network. As we can see in the picture, for IP domain, our model can provide the PM capabilities that VPN model have not covered yet. For example, the CPU usage or the memory usage of a net the PM capabilities that VPNPM model have not covered yet. For example, the CPU usage or the memory usage of a network element For optical domain, our model enables the PM capability for optical resources For example, monitor the input and receive optical power of a term termination point. In addition, TCA module is defined to enable automatically allow generation or clearing when performance data satisfy the defined threshold in the model we use resources to describe the support resources and performance indicators Here, indicator name is defined as string type, so it is compatible for extension of new indicators. And then we define TCA management where the profile enables pre-defining the TCA configuration for specific indicators of a resource In TCA, a predefined profile could be applied to specific resource or configurations could be set directly on demand And monitoring task is defined with administrators to control PM status the PM task status"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:02",
    "text": "And in addition, the first IPC we define is used to enable the current or history PM data retrieval The second RPC is used to clear PM data of specified research And the third RPC is used to get resources that have been associated with specified TCE profile. And that's all from my presentation So any comments or questions? are welcome Thank you Rob Robles and Cisco, so I wanted to know this is in any way related to the sane architecture that this working group is published. If it's sort of what I'm overlapp doing something similar, or this is solving a different problem. So I'd like to invite Benoit up to the mic to his very thoughts He's inviting you up to the mic mic Leicester also gives some opinion opinions It doesn't sound like Benoit has an opinion at this point. Okay So you brought this out of C-Camp, and I know this isn't an in-Mops charter. Brought it here. I guess we have a few minutes for a poll. Is there interest in working on this, you haven't asked for a adoption, but is there interest in working on this? in Opts Area Working Group? I can hear my coach your friend"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "frantically typing it. There are some icons overlay my talk but I'm talking so I can see it I guess it. Yes tag, but I'm talking so I can see it. I guess it's... Yes. So raise your hand if you have an interest in working on this, if you are interested in this from an ops area perspective Yeah Rob, back in the queue I was just going to say, I find this hard to answer because if this is like a different version of the same architecture, which we've already published, then, and that could already cover this, then my answer would be I don't think we need another one of these but what I'd like to understand what the difference would be if it's something different then maybe it has more interest so I think it's understanding how this fits in what we've already published. Yeah so the poll seems overwhelmingly for those who did answer no opinion. So I think what we need to see is some more discussion. The question brought up from Rob was how to sane the service assurance for intent-based networking architecture fit into this, or how does this really And maybe that's something that can be discussed on the list but there would need to be a little bit more interest slash willingness to move this forward. And this did come up fairly late in the sequence, so we didn't see any mailing list activity So we want to see more of that to gauge working group in interest but I will let the record show that no one in this room or online was opposed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:03",
    "text": "to working on this. And there were some, there were in some interest here. So we just want to see those yeses reflect in substantive discussion on list And with that. Okay, thank you Thank you. Thank you, mingshuang jin With that, we conclude Ops area working groups section of our program, and we invite our area direct up for the Ops area piece And bring up, how long? me to continue to run the slides or do you? Okay all right, so I'll cover some of the management piece and i'll have warned to the operation side of it it The topic really is the IAB workshop that Binwa is going to talk about If you know operators and friends, who are operators, please do encourage them to participate in some of the pre-event that will be announced and the final workshop in December. The announcement of it should be coming out fairly soon it's in the first week of December So that was one. The other announced that I have is relates to a work group farming buff that is tomorrow relates to green and energy management That's at 1 p.m. So if you're interested in that piece of the work do but participate in the buff session tomorrow tomorrow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "I guess I'll just mention I've said it before and I'll see it again if you're interested in running for upsides A.D., please come along and talk to me more than happy to provide info on what it's like. It's a lot of fun, you know it is entertaining. It's a crap load of work, but it's actually worthwhile and fun to do. So, you know, the normal is going to be looking for candidates Thank you. Thank you candidates Thank you Hello Cleveland Thank you this session is about a new IAB workshop called Next Era of Network Management Operation Nemops We've got many mobs. So if you come back to the previous slide, if you want me to run the clicker up to you, you decide Oh, that's fine, okay, I trust you So there are many people involved that are going to see why people from the net mop people from the iab and my head as obsedi So, management ID, sorry, yes yes So the the way to recognize is the one in our has got a funny hand On the next slide So in 2022, the IAB organized a workshop and the goal of that was to establish a dialogue, and I see people smiling, some of them were in that workshop So to establish a dialogue between network operators and protocol developers to guide the IETF on basically what to do and what not to do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:03",
    "text": "So out of that, there were a series of operator requirements in RFC 4545. And if you're dealing with auto- automation, that's something that you should be reviewing over and over because those requirements there are pretty good. Now, if we pick some of them, you know, number two, it's necessary to make a clear distinction between config data and operational data, right? It's a number four. It's necessary to enable operations to concentrate on the config of the networks a whole so all of these led to a couple of things in the IETF, right, service model, and yang and net newton. So on the next slide there was also a series of recommendations for the IETF So which one is interesting? First one, recommend that the IETF stop forcing working groups to provide rightable MIPs. And there were a clear explanation in the document telling it's too complex to create those maps, right? And there were a clear explanation in the document telling it's too complex to create those maps. As a consequence, there was an IAG statement. Stop doing that. Right. So we could go on and there, go on and on, but the point on the next slide is that that works was the basis for the creation of the netconf working group and the rest and there, go on and on. But the point on next slide is that that workshop was the basis for the creation of the NetConf Working Group and the Resconf Protocol and the Yang and all of the derivation of it right, the module, in the end, the telemetry the service model, the NMDA to get operational data So maybe slowly but we've been listening, right? 22 years. Now, here is like the on the next slide why I mentioned different people in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "involved when NMAP was created there are four big topics in there the last one is consider and plan an approach of updating RFC 4545BIS bis. So collecting operators requirements and recommendation so this is where we started this IAB description. Now the next slide please So what is the goal of this? First of all, this is to make a kind of state of the union review the outcome of what happened and identify operational barriers that prevents technology from being widely implemented So if someone, for a good reason, would say, you know, this entire young stuff is crap, needs to invent something new we want to listen to that It's an unlikely outcome, but we want to listen to operators telling why it's difficult. And maybe things such as open config will come up. This is fine, we have to listen to people, right? So there are things that are outside of even the IETF. So the next point is to sketch new requirements If I'm an operator right now, what are the biggest issues that I have? Maybe this is like data collection that we see also in NMAP. Maybe this is like I don't know, you tell me if you're an operator And the idea behind this workshop is to exactly like years ago, to have a panache and recommendation for the IETF right? so the way that an IAB workshop works is that there is a kind of submission paper that you do to be invited to the workshop And that's the way it's going to happen. On the next slide slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:03",
    "text": "let me go to the last point We have to recognize that there is less operators in the IETF than we had like 22 years ago, even if personally I'm happy to see more operators in the ups area of the IT and those operators are getting to self-organization So that makes me happy, but maybe we don't have all the operators in the world. So we need to do an outreach effort to go and say and then go and to ask the question to the operators. I've seen too many times like, can you please come and work in my place with my process to get an IETF draft to be basically work and for some operators, it's just not the way. It works if you're going to ask them to write a draft So we're going to write. We're going to go to Nanog. We're going to go to AutoCon. Actually, we went there Mahesh went to Autocon. I will go to Ripe. We discuss with Miriam. I'm not sure if she's here She's a ripe chair. We're going to have a session in the plenary, 15 minute session. We're going to have a table there and collecting feedback from operators and for the people who don't want to just come to the IETF workshop or even publish like a paper, we're going to collect the feedback and give it to the workshop Now, coming to the top part decision topic. It might be tooling Sometime, we don't enable a specific protocol because there is no tooling. There is no library. It could be proof of concept, multi-vander, data consistency, right, to support Richard observability, the data and knowledge It could be integration with business layer Anything which is autonomy orchestration automation, right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:02",
    "text": "So there is like an announcement So this will be announced very soon so this this is currently for finalizing the details. This morning there was an IAB breakfast where the agreement is that we're going to pose this on the tracker by the end of the week the full description Now, this is the mailing list on the second bullet points that you want to subscribe to to get the official news. Don't worry it's going to be sent to many different places right? In Ripe, for example, we agree to have a block over there We agree to send information in advance, okay? So the workshop will be taking place These are the tentative dates in blue there, December 3rd, 4th, 5th You have in there the program committee to be defined right so we're discussing this right now what is pretty stable this is the script there in this red point, which is public if you want to read it but we're going to make it final before the end of the week right and from there you could see if you want to part participate so i think the key message is that if you are an operator if you are a protocol designer, we want to hear from you on how we could do better. Now, we know it when I'll go to write and say, what's wrong with the IETF? I'm going to receive tomatoes That's fine, right? But in the end can I extract something which is actionable to do better in the future? Whether this is a tiny thing, or this is for Mahesh to create a new work? group on something, we'll see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "so that's basically my message state you tuned for this announcement by the end of the week Any feedback question? Hmm I'm assuming you will send a couple of reminders to OPSAWG mailing list as well just before it. Everywhere Go on Diego and every everywhere I am not an ops area director, so I wanted to take this as a contributor Two questions. On a few slides back you said you have to you said you said you have to submit a paper to be invited. Can anyone who does submit a paper still show up to listen in? We have to make a distinction between Han an IAB workshop works, and it works with contribution and we have also to be very realistic and so I don't expect it to be a hard requirement As I mentioned, if you're an operator and you have to write like a full paper it's not going to work so I believe that there is theory and there is practice Okay. And what would change those dates? Well, you said there to be determined so I don't know what is waiting to, to finalize the dates Just the IAB pressing the button telling these are those dates That's it Hi, everyone Hi, everyone. So, Lauren, speaking as an energy co-chair too I will say, what role? could you expect also from the research community or? is it broader than purely engineering IETF? operator and short-term view of this to be I mean to take part to help"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:02",
    "text": "support into that as inputs to the discussion and also when you mentioned the outreach so you mentioned a lot of operator group which I fully support there are as you know also other industry events scientific events were quite a number of operators are also attending. So do you expect also to outreach? to them or any support to our plans? to also outreach these two questions? So the first question about the RTF and C specific in MRG is a pretty good one This is exactly why we did not press the button at this breakfast this morning because we know the distinction between IETF and RRTF. The people outside they don't. They don't care They don't see, like, how we distinguish between an MRG and an observable UG. So this is one of the extra sentence, the last one we have to mention the distinction between what is more law long-term in MRG and what is more protocol space specification. And this was the exact reason why we have not pressed the button now. We'll make that distinction Now, what is the role of NMRG? So what we want to say as well is that if the feedback is I want to use my ALM to save the world and run my network, so this may be a little bit too researching So what we concluded this morning is that we'll accept all the feedback but whenever we arrive here we're going to triage what should be more IRTF and MRG and the IETF. That makes sense for the first answer and somehow that answer as well, your second question because yes, you could go to many conferences right research conferences but what is our and what is IETF? So, ideally,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "if we don't want to get so dialed, feedback, you know, the LLM was self-healing network, self, whatever I pray a button it works, this is like a bit too researchy Okay, just maybe a feedback on what you say. I agree with this distinction of short-term, long-term research, more engineering positioning, which I think is fair and healthy Still, it's evolution of that recognition distinction of short-term, long-term research, more engineering positioning, which I think is fair and healthy. Still, since the evolution of network management, I think we should also reflect on maybe past phase failures or attempts that were not successful and try also to me sure that everything that we want to engage, especially on the IETF side, actually address things that are coming, not just the immediate thing that we see and, let's say, the next young evolution, but there are a bit of more trends that will transform networks to some extent. And if we don't capture that partly at least i think it is initiative then maybe in a few years we will say yeah we have to do it again so just try to be mindful into capturing the right set of what is coming next as part of practical things we can do short-term in the iatia good feedback Yes, Diego, Wilson send you an email Well, I just subscribe to the list, just in case No, seriously just is an extremely practical thing we were talking what you were whether it would make more sense to present a joint contribution by all the people from Telefonica that are here or it would better, in practical terms, to have indeed ones. Just what do you think? Yes. Yes okay later on I'll tell your story about Franco and yes Very God, I to reinforce Benoit's remote that the rules should be in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "interpreted liberally I'm sure I would not have had the chance to survive the 2002 workshop if I had been asked to submit papers and actually I think the rules for admission were at that time well okay you had to be invited And inviting the right people is really hard, but well, okay for the invitations here you I think you should think about how to make clear that you are really as liberal as and encouraging to operate to come with extra burdens, in particular if you go outside or at advertising outside of IETF problems people who are in the other venues are very unlikely to really want to deliver even one one-page papers you're fully right um Mahesh I wanted to just fall on the comment of the distinction between an MRG and what this workshop is trying to do this question of why not AI, for example, came up in the meeting earlier today. Why are we not mentioning? the fact of use of AI in network management? That's a fair question except that this workshop is actually about collecting requirements from the operator We are not trying to go with an opinion and say, this is what we think network management should look like. This is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "really an open mic kind of thing where we are looking for input from the operators And that's why I think the distinction between what NMR is trying to do and what this workshop is trying to do do Mahesh, you've seen like the description. Do you believe it's sufficiently described in this GitHub? over there? So don't have to answer now, but maybe that's something you want to check, but that's a very good point. Right I think the description of the workshop is in fairly good shape, except for the few tweaks that you made mentioned we do want to just uh make that distinction between what is happening in MR and what this workshop is going to try and focus on thank you Oskar-onsale, telephonic My question is about this external organizations, if you just plan to, what, it's some or you expect more let's say, formal input, for example from TM Forum, which is very closely relations if you mentioned some your points before about the network management work and the rest relationships with orchestration layers and so on, which are typically not done here in IT IETF, they are done outside of the Do you expect more formal participation from those? or not? so I don't serve for myself right this is a collective effort. Maybe we'll have to brainstorm on this, but my personal answer is that if we go and reach out to different sDOs they're going to try to convince you a decision that should be going. If I go to TMF if I go to BBF if I go to 3GPP And actually, we might be losing the operative requirements. And to me, it's more important to get the operator's requirements"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:03",
    "text": "actually, regardless of wherever it's done in SDO Because if something specific to 3 3GPP it should be done over there So I'm slightly concerned if we start to have like as SDO's communication because ask I slightly concerned if we start to have like SDO's communication. Because I ask myself, what is, if I put myself in the sh- of the person I talk to, is going to try to sell me a whatever vision But I care about the operators. So this is my reaction to it Then were you back in Canada I think it's my Cuban, you've been coaching me to come here at the mic a few times for operator It's very hard to have operators' requirement in this world where there's too many works in parallel and it's very messy And then we're not able to get things done. You know, the fail, fast approach type of thing So the end map should reinforce maybe to start small one chunk at a time and be very, very precise with the problem even though the problem might not always be clear but give it a shot with some overview and some guidelines. But it's very hard in this because it takes too long to try something, get feedback, to know are we on the right track or not So the only, I would say, um, uh, guy that we have if you put 200 operators in the same room, and then you ask, how much? is automated in your network, the percentage it's not 70% it's not 60%, it's mostly 20% It's mostly 20%. And why is that? What's wrong? Is it? It's not always human pushing back. It's sometimes the technology is really not there because there's too many different facts So that's maybe the end map"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:02",
    "text": "is the place where we should go and let the operator put on paper what they think they have as a problem and then officialize that and then focus or refocus some work Sometimes we have to say no to some branch and just stay focused all the way till the end That's my two points. I agree with that. So I like NMOP because there are multiple times the Charter we mention X experiments which means that out of the couple of topics there, it's going to take a couple of ideas hackathon and code, and then we know if it's worse So I agree with you on a step by step and I agree with a strong connection with NMOP. Now, the state of the union two years ago, maybe there is something bigger than just the things that we are tackling in NMU And to respond to Dan's comment, absolutely we love the input that the operators are giving and are going to give to NMAP We absolutely welcome that But as Binwar noted, we have seen a study decline of operators' participation in IETF. And this effort to before the workshop, the outreach effort at least, is to go out and actually encourage that operator input so that when the workshop actually happens in December, we have happened at least made an effort to reach out and tell the operators, hey, there is a workshop here you don't if you don't want to come to end map it's yet other opportunity to participate Well, I think it's the way to go I like this final word Don't look at me there I'm just a slide guy right now. Thank you Warren Mahesh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:05",
    "text": "Okay So open mic Remaining time is on the presentation And this, like everybody's done with your questions, right? I just second. Andrew's just like I want to make sure I'm not kicking you out. Did I kick him out without? paying attention? It's a different topic. That's why I come here. Okay open mic. Any questions for ups area? It's more of a remark so you are mentioning the ups directorate right you're asking for more people and I want to add one thing to this is that it might be a little bit scary whenever you have to say to people, this is the way it's going to work this is what I believe should be happening But something that you must know is that you provide feedback to the AD. And the AD is somehow responsible to follow up. So it's not because you say the document should look like this this, that it's a big distinction You're not hot with the right term mike english not liable to make it happen You give the feedback to the AD and that might be that might be easing the entrance level for UPS directorate. That's what I want to say And yeah, thank you. That's a really good point. I mean, the ops director review usually start for like, these should be treated like any other last call comment, something, something. And it's the AD's response chase up with them. They're also ridiculously used You know, it's 80s read all the documents or try and read all the documents but sometimes, especially on a Wednesday night when you're trying to get through the last document, you're like, ah, and you open the ops directorate review and they're like, this section looks a little sketch and then you know to focus there. So yeah, ops director is really, really helpful. It's also a very good way to gain some experience with, you know, document review if you're thinking of running for other positions. It also if you do ops or yeah, if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:02",
    "text": "you do upstairs reviews, people jared mauch more likely to review your documents. So as with all IETF stuff you know, you helped out some people, they'll help you out later with reviews. Any other questions? and comments? Nothing. Go in once, go in twice Okay dokey oky-dokey thank you all and see you in double hopefully Meetecho always helps a new feature, now I have the jury name Oh, Jerry names. Why not? Yeah Yeah yeah yeah Yeah"
  }
]
