[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "hey guys hope you can hear me uh Kieran Ray hey Steve again that's for everyone hey Karen are you going to take notes again Kieran today uh is that possible I'll do that say again yeah I'll take care of notes cool thanks a lot that's really helpful because um capturing some of the sort of key points uh it's obviously quite important because otherwise we would rehash them again uh then the week afterwards hey Steve hey John I sent out the link a little bit late uh but uh thanks to Steve for reminding me foreign hi there um sorry for being unmuted but um my new app wants to basically be left phone and it's always canceling a call and creating a call when a mutant ammued so I'm just muting my Hardware wise and that's fine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:08",
    "text": "yeah I was checking yesterday the progress um that has been made from last Monday till this Monday I didn't see much but um Steve just pointed out that you Hank you created some text for the use case document uh that's something uh we should probably talk about yeah so that's the the um open PR that reflects Monty wiseman's contribution that initially we call it a firmware use case and now it's more like the context frosting about auditing things after the fact so how you would uh um enable that via endorsements coming from the outside and they should be available and running through that it uh it really resonates with me I don't know if once we see it today no I don't think he is yeah but that's something um we should talk about today and and decide whether we want to merge it or not and you can have that included for example yeah yeah exactly and then I can do again the agenda bash wise I can give a small update uh to the um uh received ID and through what's planned there um yeah that's from my side because I don't know how many authors of that document will join today okay and then I was also wondering about the terminology I was hoping to see some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "email discussions on that uh the architecture terminology yeah so um I was on um on um I was on vacation last week and uh um basically everything is buzzing today so also I'm sitting in the dark because my house fell apart and such so um uh yeah so there are updates on the architecture terminology in so far that we are boiling it down to simple words now uh as a intermediate step uh basically uh the supply chain entity is going to put your statements and days become signed statements then and they will then be processed by the um uh part that is the transparency service including a notary and becoming transparent statements and there I said it so statements sign statements transparent statements and and we go from there if we want to refactor that because we were circling on that pencil force and we're just falling back to readability now so that everybody can see the refinement of statements so to speak in the procedure a PR thing on that no that I have not written APR on my vacation I'm sorry to say that no no you not that actually that's totally fine but uh we'll we'll get to that I would like to talk about the architecture as well and the status of that okay now it's actually five minutes after the hour uh so I guess we should get started uh obviously vote come again I see uh familiar faces Lane I see K Mike uh net thanks for joining oi yogesh sakuri dick headache um okay uh so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "from the attracted items uh use cases start with use cases you want to give a brief update about the receipt stuff and then uh the last item is the architecture is there anything else you guys would like to talk about okay that's good uh let's start with the use cases um hanky do you want to take the lead on that or who would be the best person to do to do so yeah well I think the best person would be Monty but he is not here with us yet so I'm not I'm assuming you will not be joining uh Hank I think uh we we started reviewing the document and we merged the pr initially from me and then we said that yes we will go through the news new edits or new section in the final document and I expect a reply from audience through either a PR or GitHub issues on that so I would love to hear from the community is is there anything they have seen objectionable or I mean in terms of any problematic thing or anything they want to address there so sorry let's go pick in the queue yeah okay so maybe he wants to say I'm just opening that document to see is there any upper um is there any GitHub issues raised against that that repository so so um so let's let's have tickets in the queue do you want to say something I will um get the link for the repository the use case Repository yep uh thank you Johannes uh yeah just two points I I did enter two issues on the current use case draft they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "really minor uh but they I put them in there just some minor additions that I'm recommending thank you okay yogesh do you want to share the your screen uh yes I'm doing that just a minute yeah I'm still searching for the I think that distance yeah I need your permission I suppose right before I can share something yeah I'm I'm seeing it yet uh waiting for it oh okay okay also on the chat uh Ray was highlighting that for the agenda today uh and I think some folks related uh to join he wanted to do some discussion on six stores so maybe Ray wants to yeah I put that on the I saw that uh put it on okay thanks Ray so I requested my permission so yeah it works Okay cool so I will open it in the markdown because somehow okay let's review the issues is anybody else wants to have raised any issues but it's also the the pr um as wild apps something we should look at yes uh certainly yes that was the thing which I also want to discuss but uh I thought we have gone systematically from top level sections so we had only discussed about the first use case yes in the last meeting um and I think there was some comment from Ray and they had some issues so gay has kindly uh edited something after discussion discussing with me so we have a slightly modified first use case which is a bit simplified then uh and specifically address"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "highlights the use case in a more clear way rather than uh kind of only talking about the relationship between the supplier and the distribution and the distribution Authority or the signing Authority yeah so yeah very also uh posted the mail to the list discussing this use case I think it's um let's not we have this let's uh then have a look at the uh the details of what because I think uh that email conversation on the list was actually quite a quite good summary of what we talked about um so I I haven't read it when when did you uh merge that change Yeah so basically I had sent an email to the skit Community last uh last Wednesday that uh to that we need to move fast and that's why I immersed it okay so that people can raise GitHub issues directly if they see any issue on the because otherwise we kind of keep going in circles and we not make any progress ITF is approaching fast next month so we want to submit this document so that it can be usable in the skit skit rats working group skit working group so I I just wanted to make progress and we decided that we will submit it and if there are any issues with any specific sections anybody anyone has is feel free to raise an issue GitHub issue or suggested Improvement using a PR pull request on this repository so I had said that explicitly to everyone and I think as a result of that dick has created two pull requests or two issues I suppose yeah yeah Ray is in the queue uh Ray do you want to say something about that uh yeah I just wanted to bring up that it seems maybe uh maybe in the future meeting or something we could get into the the identity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "um user identity section which seems to be really uh hard problem uh you know it's and is the weak point of six store uh but um maybe in a future meeting there would be somebody who's an ex who's in that area and I you know my little bit of research they're bringing up the acronym kyc and uh I guess ADM something like that and know your customer um different levels of authentication of the customer this type of thing and also how the authentications are uh you know like if one entity has validated an identity then how does that get communicated um those sort of things because um yeah well I was just thinking if if someone is um you know is already in that area for we know um you know if we had somebody come and present at least that would be something I would appreciate I don't know about where everyone else is on it so I think that's a point uh clearly and as we also noticed from the discussion last week that's uh sort of the whole identity aspect is is important yeah so that's good thanks Ray I know that it okay uh yogis back to you yeah okay because I'm not able to see any queue because no because I'm focusing on the screen so this is use case two which we have improved upon is the use case where the software industry in the software industry a software product is released and then it is analyzed by various parties like an auditing company would like to do a audit of the software or the government"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "body might examine the software product for an issue some Authority reports about the state of the product so I think this is very similar to John mentioned last uh about the analysis of the product once before it uh in this specific use case it is after the product is in the market people are analyzing it or running running some tools on that so and this use case specifically focus on how the end user can access these access how can it evaluate these assessment and can make sure that it is coming from the entities it is aware about so as it mentioned in the second paragraph there are multiple such authoritative bodies that make such assessment and there is no assurance that all bodies may be aware of statements from other entities other authoritative entities or actively in all knowledgeable about them so how one can discover all such reports and identify identify identity of authoritative bodies at significant cost to the end end user or consumer of the product if it wants to know about these reports to find it from a central location so what would the consumer want to do is to offload the burden of identifying all such uh authoritative entities as well as where who does what on on their behalf and where to find these statements so and there is no standardized way to do this currently in the industry so this highlights the problem in about last three bullets you don't need to go through to the details yeah yeah I just thought of summarizing what exactly the use case is referring to so I'm assuming that um we will we will if there are any issues with this or if there is anything which people don't agree with and feel free to raise issues or if there is any scope for improvement we are happy to consider that at least this week do you have a comment on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "uh yeah thank you Johannes uh so I I do have to leave alone place a request could could we as we're reviewing each use case could we review any open issues that pertain to the use case as we're as we're reviewing them yeah like a 3.1 use case has an open issue thanks yeah yeah I think we basically uh dick what happened is the 3.1 was extensively debated last week and as you mentioned earlier that this was a minor issue so we are happy to discuss maybe if time permitting at uh close to the hour we I'm happy to discuss that because in case I want to go thank you yeah yeah so so but with respect to Dexcom issues I think that they are easy to incorporate easy to incorporate so that's not the uh some maybe not something for here um I would like to ask because I think Josh and um Zach are here today uh I've if I may remember correctly there was this um mention of sub-use cases and there's also as yoga has highlighted this uh next meeting approaching fast and uh do you want to contribute something into that direction before uh the cut off day that is uh early March uh always two weeks before an ITF meeting you shall only read the documents you may not write to them anymore and so they have a two weeks moratorium of submission and that is called a deadline somehow because you can publish all the time unless these two weeks are approaching then it's blocked and so uh there's this basically and deadline before ITF meeting and do you plan to um so again it just address to Zach and Joshua um parental would create a PR that would outline how these sub-use cases can Incorporated in the document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "okay we're planning to work on we should definitely have something by really much okay that would be great because uh we want to I assume go into an adoption call around there which will not block anything like that being Incorporated but we need a stable point and I think we have to understand if are we putting that in before we try to do a working group adoption call or uh after it's a working group item I think both is fine with me and I think procedure as we are already doing like handing it like a working room item actually because we do consensus here and do nothing without uh having discussed it but it's a formal thing where you have to get ready thank you uh it's great that you could do that before then okay okay sorry about that okay uh um yeah so how do we want to so there are issues um posted against the document how do we want to work work through those what is the typical process for that and does it make sense to take time in this meeting to actually walk through issues and see if we can get agreement on them or or is that something that's better done offline how do other groups typically handle that Well normally um like if the resolution is pretty obvious and doesn't require any discussion it's it's you you could just do it uh but maybe that's not always the case and so uh bringing it up and discussing is uh that makes sense uh I'm not entirely sure from the from the issues which ones are still current and which ones are not uh an issue that I raised earlier and so so yeah so that's maybe something for the owner of the issues to go through to double check whether they are still applicable to the current version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "is that okay okay just to be clear sorry a project manager hat on um so yogesh is that something that that you're going to do is is go through all of those open issues or or I can help well I'll I'll be I'll be I'll agree myself to go ahead and go through them and add comments to all of them um and then yoga she'll make the determination on which ones uh get resolved and and uh and where needed any merges are made into the into the existing document yeah I'm happy to do that when you feel free to make the comments and I'm happy to track it with the owners if it's still relevant if not we can close them or make some progress on that yeah great thanks yogesh Sean uh yeah so I guess this is as good a time as any to to raise an observation kind of on what um Hank was asking and uh and Kay just did we have now five weeks ahead of that freeze deadline to get to 116 and we are late on publishing the two artifacts the two and a half artifacts that we are supposed to publish which is the use case the security um model and the architecture and security model as we've noted is sort of in the architecture and so about a month ago we adopted a strategy in the face of some reasonably Fierce discussion on terminology and both kind of abstractly what the terminology means and additionally in some cases whether overlapping terminology with other groups was problematic or not um and we adopted a a strategy of going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "through the use case document to try and constrain the areas where uh that was important so we kind of put down the architecture PRS for a moment went to the use case once um my observation of what's been going on in the last sort of few weeks is that we was kind of stuck in a catch-22 where we're discussing these things in circles but not really making progress and I think it would help us all if we actually do the former of What Hank suggested which is to call a vote pretty much now let's call it next interim meeting on the use cases to say you know are they are they complete or not so we we know that we could add more things and we know we could make them more more wonderful but I think it's time to stop adding and we need to take a view on whether it's correct or not and then and then submit it and then and then make progress on the architecture because otherwise I feel like we've been going around in circles somewhat for a couple of weeks um so that that's what you know unless there's a howl of disagreement just with my chair hat on I think the way to make progress is going to be that so we'll say let's call time if you actually think it's wrong absolutely stand up say it's wrong put issues in but if we think it's fine it's just not maybe as wonderful as it might be I would like to propose that we get the use cases document uh adopted and and submitted that will give us time to make sure that the architecture and the open issues on the architecture satisfy all of those use cases and then we can have a a successful ietf116 what I don't think we should do is show up at 116 and have these same conversations just in a bigger group thanks thanks John uh I see do persons in in the queue they can thank uh probably in response to what you just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "said uh dick do you want to start uh thank you harness yeah so I agree with John and what I heard Kate say and in the interest of making progress could I suggest that we at least review the issues as a group and then decide if there is anything controversial or if there's any concerns that we deal with them now and then you know make any updates later but at least come to some closure on the issues to see if we do have any disagreement thank you uh Hank Hank re mute humbling to my half a mute I'm so sorry um yeah just as a note submitting in this case an ITF scenarios means uh we are updating the data tracker data track document on the IIT website that is a official submission in in contrast to the incubator that is GitHub and so uh that is by no means meaning that we're done right we're just creating a stable discussion points for the next meeting and then as we have to do this all the documents can go cycling through the other documents to have a uh reach this point not only for the use cases I think that that's the goal here and I'm absolutely fine with that that is a plus one on uh on the uh on John's um yeah and just breaking etiquette here but just to say yes that is what I meant so in case it wasn't clear I meant we have a stable version not it will be fixed forever and you don't get any more chances to edit yeah yeah but it's also a forcing function to produce a somewhat uh consistent document and to say like this is something I want to submit in uh so so that's something I will come to um Hank do you want to buy onto that or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "do you want to let yogish talk oh I'm fine with it I'm done yeah so I'm a hundred percent on board with what John stated and that's what I our effort was since last week um as K and me we decided that we will try to close this document as early as possible so I floated an email asking everyone in the community here to review it if there are any major concerns or anything please raise issues and so that we understand that this is the blocking thing which uh which is objectionable and we corrected ASAP so that we close as early as possible and 100 agree that the deadlines are approaching and we should move on to other documents not just sit on the use case document as well yeah okay uh having said that um maybe yogishi can you quickly um click on the issues uh to see like um to to sort of glance over them there are a few like there are very few the top two the top two Issue Number 20 and issue number 19 is opened by dick there are minor proposed changes we are not going to discuss that right now there are two minor changes as mentioned by Hank let's discuss uh this one from Hank use of term trust in trust bond between package supplier and this I think we have addressed that thing to my knowledge we removed the word trust as much as possible you don't see much usage of the word trust in my PR because I am focusing on more verification aspect using the statement so that the trust is built implicitly from there but correct me if I am wrong Hank this issue issue you open a a case in the queue okay sorry yeah um it takes a little while for the mic to come on it looks like maybe a couple of more places I just did a search on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "um on the word trust and it is showing up a few times in the document so it looks to me like there's are a few more places where we might want to make edits I'd be happy to um make a PR uh to uh to address the remaining issues that I see okay if there sometimes uh the term may be just fine but uh yeah sometimes it was used excessively yeah there I I agree in some cases it'll say things like uh uh this is a requirement in order for a consumer to establish trust and that that cases are makes sense but there are still at least one I'm seeing where we talk about manage a trust relationship and I think those are the ones we want to try to uh requested which is create issues and let's go from there and let's not create any more pull requests um no I think this is already an issue here right yeah this is an issue we need to address paper you're asking for a week for people to create issues let's create no no no no we want to uh we want to you know next week we want to basically say like is this ready you have a week to sort of make the changes that are still needed to to do this we have a few open issues this one seems to be a low hanging fruit the easy one um I don't know about the other ones uh both what Ray is asking for and what dick is is is trying to get at to is we're trying to build some foundational pieces so people can can infer a type of crust so trying to scrub it and say hey trust has gone from everything in the document is disingenuous so I want to be very good yeah I'm not uh I'm not saying that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "I think that's that's what uh K is hopefully going to look at is is to see where um foreign where the use of trust is appropriate and where it isn't uh because uh it just like read through it and and see whether you you think you understand it uh if it's like trust is printed all over the place then it's uh maybe maybe hard to understand and maybe this is the issue we just looked at is is maybe can be closed already I I don't know there are just a couple questions and um they're just a couple of places where we talk about trust relationships and Trust bonds and I think we want to reward those couple of places um I I think it's relatively minor I'm happy to create a pull request for that if that's uh um yogesh if if that would be useful if you'd rather I don't I I'm I think I think it would be useful yeah okay English native speaker you obviously uh like know how to to phrase the the sentence is better than I would uh ever be able to do it so yeah you're funny I have a couple of people in the queue uh now uh big do you want to say something yeah thank you honest I'll be brief so uh just a couple of thoughts so we talked some it seems like there's some concern about the word trust but the fact is that trust is part of our name uh so uh you know if we're going to keep it as part of our name then I think we need to say something about what we mean by trust in in the use cases and in the architecture uh and so and the other thought is I thought we removed trust bond or replaced it with trust relationship so I I didn't think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "was still an issue thanks right yeah um I think you rightfully said it so like we need to explain what we mean uh and if that's done uh that's great uh uh right yeah so uh thank you for for looking at this topic on I I do think it could be explained pretty easily by saying that that the trust is established through evidence and uh that's what we want to get to is to not have just blind trust um which a lot of times is what people think of like you can trust me and um but he I was making a note that even like a trust deed which you can you know you can exchange and so forth they're backed up by an interest in the property so you really don't trust anyone with a trustee so um trust is uh is is fine in the name I think because really we want to to make it so that you can you can you can you can establish a trust relationship by finding all that evidence and so some way to word it like that I think could be the way to go and no I'm not saying take it out of the name um I think it's fine to have it and then keep the name and everything and trust is a good thing but it's it's uh you know our goal really is to make it so there is no blind trust at and we can just we we can back everything up we know who the people are we have a way to establish that and this identity thing will do that we can we can backtrack all of the packages and find out where they came from and we can see everything along the way if it's other kinds of material we can see where they came from and so uh so there shouldn't be a need to say okay well I I trust that company and so therefore everything is fine although there is that because the software package is a pretty complex thing and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "when they say yeah this works according to the specifications you can't backtrack that unless you have um you know a test house or something that's that's evaluating it because you want to do that to to try to find out but you know the goal of all of that is to is to remove any question that it'll work as intended and be reliable and resilient all those things thanks really I think uh in in in in a summary what you're saying is if you use that don't trust say who you trust and to do what yeah well you you have to have identities that that you have some right like otherwise you can't say who I think we we want in a nutshell the trust is built through solid evidence and that's what skit provides is a trail of solid evidence to create that trust relationship something like that so what you know our goal is to actually create that that trail of evidence that we can look to yep um without saying okay well it's Microsoft therefore I trust what they do uh and it's it'll be a good package and there is that right there is that name recognition with companies um as to whether or not in the past their stuff has worked and so you can shortcut it and you can say well um you know this is a good company that's produced solid products in the past but then for more for more sophisticated customers we're not going to use that rule of thumb and they're going to want more evidence to back it up and that's what's get actually hopefully will will provide for those more sophisticated customers thanks yeah Sean is this working yeah sorry it took a long time yeah yeah so um yeah just with another I'm trying to be a bit strict on on keeping these work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "items in line and getting those deadlines hit um this is an area that comes up a lot and it seems to me a couple of things so I really like what Ray just said um and I'm gonna hit the button on a comment in the chat there you go um I want to make sure we stay on target and within scope of what skit does and a lot of the use cases obviously because the use cases are talking about applications that can be built on top of a skit registry or use cases and and Trust dynamics that can be established on the basis of the consumption and verification of some number of skit feeds but they don't give it to you themselves so I think we need to you know we're to be very crisp and clear in what we're sort of voting on in the working group here that if we sort of disagree or don't understand the terminology of something like trust buttons um but it's in the domain of an application on top of skit rather than skit itself I think we need to have a a moment of pause where we just put that to the side and fix the things that we can that we can fix um that was inspired actually by a lot of this talk about identities and we've had three or four talks of identities here we need to bear in mind that the minimal set of interoperable building blocks for creating trustworthy Supply chains does not according to our Charter or any conversation I remember include necessarily automatically verifying all of these things um and in particular if we think about kyc processes the kyc process is that every Hotel chain in the world performs is that they take your passport and they take it to the back room and they photocopy it and then they put it into a folder where not many people have access and that's how they do your identity"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "verification and if that needs to be checks later by the authorities it's checked by manually going and digging that thing out and having a look at whether the photocopy looks like a legitimate passport or not and the minimal set of interoperable building blocks that skit is trying to enable in in my um opinion if I'm allowed to have an opinion um is is at that level so we'll have identities where you contribute things to the system and obviously you have to authenticate yourself to the notary in order to be allowed to make statements but the statements you're then making are not two an iot device or two a private person they are about the iot device or about the private human and so all the questions of identity we have to be really careful not to get caught up in this idea that every identity is equal or that every identity has to be automatically verifiable because because they're not and I don't think we need to solve that problem right yeah thank you John I agree to most of what you said there's a few boundary cases that I have issues with Ray the there is some implicit trust in a lot of our business day relationship if our corporate legal department says the licensing on OSS component complies with our policy I trust they've done their due to and I do not go off and I profess to know the legal ramifications so there's plenty of places in our daily lives where the signing entity infers some implicit Crosstour removal of responsibility for me to do the work and trying to declare those makes perfect sense you know it's a tough thing to balance out and I think John hit it right on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "head which is we're trying to enable these scenarios to be built and the use case is trying to get at the Uber thing of which we're trying to build building blocks for foreign no sorry I forgot to put my hand down okay uh Neil yeah just briefly as I noted in chat I I think that the way the document currently as I see it refers to the trust relationships is that we're help we're trying to we're interested in standardizing trust relationships and I don't think we are I think as people are saying we're trying to standardize uh the way that the evidence is organized and organizations are going to have a myriad of ways to manage their trust relationships but I don't so thanks thanks again yeah this is just me uh 20 minutes before the end of the hour um saying that because we have other two other topics there and uh yeah yeah uh fair enough uh Hank um I I checked through the issues myself um yeah that issues seem to be straightforward uh K had already indicated that uh she would be working on those and uh yeah um I think um there's basically a week uh to either close the issues address them or uh whatever is necessary to do whatever is necessary and uh will um submit the document in in hopefully the in a better shape next week so Hannah's I have reviewed the issues as well I don't think there is any issue which is blocking or pending yeah to my"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "knowledge they are all issues already addressed only two issues from dick is a minor rewarding or Corrections which me and uh K will review and correct that uh taking dicks and ask dick to approve the review the pr uh that is according to what he was thinking on in line with what he is looking forward to apart from that I don't think there is any major Blocker on this document on the trust aspect what what we have tried to show in the use case is not how to trust but what are the type of evidences which are required or which are missing in a standardized way so that trust can be implicitly established after the verification event is happened so we are focusing on yeah like just from the feedback uh today I think there's maybe maybe it doesn't get across uh there yet so that's why it might be might be good to double check again to see whether you uh sort of like you got there uh in that intention of what you want to say um okay yeah I'm happy to kind of um reread and if there are any points where you know specific lines people think still think that this needs a bit of rewarding I am happy to take issues or uh but just repeat it uh yourself to see like from the feedback you got today uh does it is is that reflective like uh yeah so sure and Kay obviously said that she would do something here so I trust you guys to and and then I say that intentionally to trust you to uh get that solid out somehow yeah okay uh okay stop sharing now yeah so Hank uh do you can you say a few words about the receipt update or the receipt uh pending update yeah exactly and uh to my delight Mike"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "is also here so uh Mike is here that is important and um power is also here so I think uh we are um we had a lot of discussions how to uh uh this is going down to the Cozy level to the to the to the um civilization um proposal we are creating and we had a lot of feedback already on the use of word of counter signature whenever you countersign something and add a single by that is not about the semantic of quota signing You're Not Just counter signing you're doing something else good example is the uh trusted timestamp Authority that creates a trusted timestamps homes um that's pretty much like counter signing it's something because you get something condescend back including the time stream but it isn't it's something more so receipts are its own thing and um receipts includes uh proofs of mercury proofs and then we were of course first of all a little bit egocentric and we're focusing on how this is useful to skit until we realized well a lot of other people also do this and they look at oh we're doing the receiver that's interesting and now do we have the plan and I think Mike might have something to add on this and I like Ori have the plan to start a generic cozy based representation of various types potentially of mercury proofs there's more than one apparently and actually the number might grow if even if we go to post Quantum and then build from there the bases back to skits where we use that generic uh cozy Merkel tree proof um ID that we want to create we have a relatively tight deadline for this I think we want to have internally as offer something communicatable on transparently on Thursday actually and then go from there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "and then maybe even have something next week to appoint you to as a generic approach probably it's a mess in a construction site but that's where we are and now I would like to ask into the group here uh or your mic do you would you like to add something to that or is that uh you mentioned some discussions and and updates to the document uh are those updates visible to the the group or radio or where do the discussions take place on this topic um discussions are typically amongst authors as this is an individual work at the moment we want to extend that with a good proposal uh we're basically uh giving a um uh spoiling the surprise so to speak because we want to be transparent and that way because we had a heated discussion how to do this so to speak a lot of ideas were coming together and I think we have a way forward now so transparency will hopefully kick off this weekend then next week everybody again you can point something to it that is internal author uh let's call it early pruning of of too much so we have to keep it in scope okay okay that's that's good um yeah so we obviously eagerly wait to see that new uh outcome of what whatever you did uh because it's relevant to um to the work in the group um while you're in the queue um maybe you could also say a few words about the architecture uh or maybe you want to push that to someone else okay so again another question to me could you refresh that please um architecture document what's what's the status uh yeah the least uh attention went through that I have to admit so um we are um as we are the heart stopping the terminology circular discussion also and looking at use cases I think we just"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "have to rekindle that I can't say that next to the statement um example I gave earlier with respect to terminology that we have improved significantly there there's also a um the original the the claim slash sign statement um civilization example in the architecture we're not entirely sure if it belongs there it is there for now and we will adjust it accordingly to what we find out with the general discussion cozy that's all I can say today to be honest uh as we have done all the other parts at the moment the terminology from the architecture has there been any progress no I I didn't have time to do that so I will take it on now with this use case document getting a little in a good shape and we'll focus on that I'm actually looking for Cedric and Anton to join the discussion here but seems they are the initial authors of the document and they don't seem to be attending any meetings from last since in the new year so yeah yeah I wound up uh yeah I've noticed that too um yeah is there any any news or any update is it possible for them to contribute here or should we just go and bypass them and unilaterally suggest something here on the call today yep he's on the call but he I don't think he's also on the architecture document that's right I just was going to ask him um I I I I think that we can have um Cedric and um Antoine participate I don't think there's any reason not to but I since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "thought maybe he could confirm surprise me yeah I know there's no problem I'm we were just very busy internally at all yeah yeah I think it it's probably worthwhile to point out like anyone who has ever worked on an IDF documents uh may know that already but uh it sounds like a small effort like writing a paper um but it actually isn't uh it's a tremendous amount of work to um come to a document that Everyone likes and it typically means rewriting it so many times um and so uh just uh celery can and and one I think they are new to the IDF process so I just want to sort of um mention and sort of mention this um so that they are not surprised about the effort the amount of effort that needs to go in there just saying yeah they they did put a bunch of effort into it already there they've been great yes but I I can guarantee you that at the time when the architecture document goes to the isg there will probably be no single word in there that was in initial version um so it's just uh and I'm sure a couple of people the nature of the process it's just the way how things work it's not a um not a bad thing not a not a good thing but it is just what it is um uh since we are approaching the end of the hour um I I still wanted to get to the six door question but I before that I also wanted to point out that uh early bird registration ends today so if you haven't registered for the IDF meeting yet uh you may want to do so today uh just to benefit from the cheaper rate um also um useful to think about and do the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "registration as early as possible Is the hackathon participation um of course we'd like to see people um sitting together on the uh two days before the ITF meeting starts to uh work on some code together uh last time it was a lot of fun um I think we had good conversations and and made some progress and yeah so please think about that too and so uh Ray uh you uh wanted to talk about the the six star topic do you can you yeah okay um and I'm glad that Neil um brought this up to uh at the end here uh the so we had them the overview in a meeting and it pretty much took the whole time uh it was really good to get that um they have a lot of things that are very very um excellent in terms of being able to tie into what we're doing um except the courses I brought up in the meeting the the issue is that the identity and and I thank Ori for for those documents that he passed to me in the chat uh regarding uh SP 800-63 might be uh the source of that so so yes I do believe that that there's a lot of good things done by Sig store and making it super easy for people to to push things into a repository in science what it doesn't do is look at the bigger picture of everything like all the different repositories that are combined into a product and uh and this thing called uh in Toto doesn't do that either they they look at one build pipeline for one one type of product and not across the different you know there's so many different aspects of products these days"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "um browser things and you know things that run on the server and all that stuff they're all in different repos and in different containers and everything else and yet a lot of times it's all part of one product concept and uh so though that kind that is not you know so that larger view of of a product um is not taken into by uh by Sig store uh that I can tell but but so between the identity problem and so I think the layering can be really good because a lot of what they have there is fine and then if we get this identity thing done then I mean that was just my my feedback on it was um that part so if anyone else wanted to say anything uh um I'd like to hear any other comments that other people had yeah I have uh yoga Shina cute I don't know yoga she said right no no this is not response from it this is something completely different but I I would not right now go into the keyword would wait a response for race okay or are you starting response uh regarding just the the concept of identity um generally I was going to provide a link to the document that I'm a document Shepherd of from the UTA uh you to working group um it basically it covers you know some components I think are relevant if we're building on top of certificates uh and we're looking at the concept of service identity as opposed to you know human individual user developer contributor you know quality assurance officer identity so identity for software systems or processes as opposed to Identity for people or organizations that's it okay thanks thanks I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "um could also in white uh my coach here revert from the OS working group to join one of our meetings in the future and talk a little bit about identity um otherwise if I talk about it it sounds a little bit biased um but let him talk about it uh just to give you guys a little bit of a flavor of of sort of that type of universe well at least in terms of how um we might be able to integrate that because I I think it's going to wind up being a really critical aspect since uh I mean Sig score has done almost everything and most for software within the scope of one repo and one you know maybe one pipeline of getting something out but not uh multiple you know like like in Toto was I was going to make the comment on the list but didn't do it that that it was focused on one um you know like one repository release type thing and everything you might do uh with that but not um all the different repositories together and and that bigger picture wasn't there so um that that's really the feedback that I had and so maybe if we can get a an identity something to if we can focus on identity at some point and I don't want to I don't want to try to misdirect the group from the use cases um you know that are no no I think this is part of the use cases as well one of the uh um the use case uh write-ups that we saw Yes um in six to actually covered that and and of course it's also an architectural aspect uh so so I I definitely think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "this is uh sort of like um an aspect that needs to be thought about um we are not going to Define develop a new identity system but uh of course it needs to somehow work yeah and and also to at least be able to say um like this is a level of identity that has been established um you know so Sig store uses a pretty loose approach but um it's not too bad because those those identities may be fairly well established by other means and and they just are not communicating that so if we can get fi get to some sort of an assertion that we can put in the skit Ledger that says this identity was established to a certain level or I think it's mostly we're talking about you know firms or organizations or groups that are government entities for example may be very easy to that's usually what I'm thinking of uh easy to have them be identified but some means to say this is the level of identification and some I'm sure it's defined somewhere the the levels of you know how well we've looked into the identity of this of this entity thanks of course of course that work has been um yeah well uh I will I will invite the river talk to him and find out what uh time works for him and and also think about like what works for us uh in terms of progress on our documents uh thanks thanks Ray um yogish uh you are still in the queue uh what what did you bring up before we get to the end of the meeting I won't be long uh first is um because of the ongoing environment surroundings"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "about the kind of reductions uh I just wanted to ask that will there be enough on on-site participation for the next month ITF otherwise you have to schedule some kind of an online presentations or something like that would be there would be uh online and offline anyway uh yeah like uh in person uh meeting and then there will be people can dial in uh for those who who are unable to participate in person so so that's uh the default setup anyway of course what I mean the presentations uh what I mean was presentation as well you are okay with that yeah the group we'll figure this out uh I'm sure we'll uh yeah okay uh and second thing is uh there were a lot of interesting uh presentations on the first Dem which occurred last uh this Saturday and Sunday about uh software bill of material and supply chain so I'm going to reach out to them and see if they they can get attracted to skit and what work we are doing because they are an excellent source of community which which are already dealing with the problems of how to uh address supply chain security issues so that's something on my agenda yeah thanks a lot yeah okay that's it from my side yeah thank you yeah and I think we've reached the end of the hour we're not yeah actually we did already um so yeah thank you all for joining and uh please use that week to um sort of add improve uh modify the use case document so you you feel happy with it because uh um we would really like to publish it um next Monday after the after the meeting is over checkpoint yeah okay thank you all thank you thanks good discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "appreciate it thanks Rick thank you see you next week bye Hank foreign"
  }
]
