[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:42",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] I know just about to mention how the presenter okay okay we\u0027re going to start Sparty - no we\u0027re gonna pass around one blue sheet we can pass around like seven blue sheets right here is it is pretty full today distribute stuff we speak into the bikes please state your name before you speak you speak into the mic is this better we need some we need a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:45",
    "text": "prescribed and some note takers many volunteers okay we have a jabber scribe we need to note taker for - I guess that answered that question anybody on the remote want a scribe it\u0027s okay it\u0027s okay wait Rick I\u0027ll share the job here\u0027s a interesting slide read it at your leisure on intellectual property you all know the ietf gotten more and more [Music] concerned about intellectual property and there\u0027s the nut well as Adrian Farrell used to say no well the note well so we did the note takers we\u0027ve done the jam prescribe we\u0027ve got the blue sheets here\u0027s our agenda blue burgers going to talk about some develop extensions then we\u0027ve got a remote presentation on media echo from creased us on multipath chameleon which is a surrounding protocol work that\u0027s been done and brains going to talk to us about a synchronous network management specifically in DTS and then Rick\u0027s got some a short presentation on some multicast related data items before he left so let\u0027s look real quick a document status right now we\u0027ve got two documents and in publication requested the lid extension in the multi hop forward in the extension perdy left the lid extensions been in that requested status for almost 80 days so we\u0027re trying to figure out what the log jam is there it\u0027s been a while Rick Tyler please can you undulate I have running code I\u0027m getting demands from industry for it please unjam here ADEs "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:45",
    "text": "chairs any with the more doubts the better can we we and gem it please pay our Authority yes it\u0027s my cue I\u0027m the log jam there next we understand you\u0027ve got a life like the rest of this stuff but but it is I think though I looked the other day it was like 78 days it\u0027s been in that status yeah it\u0027s called head-of-line blocking so there\u0027s other traps in front then you know yes that\u0027s the control plane cause and it\u0027s been there for a while I\u0027m not remember how long and then four docks that are active okay I said answer okay four docks that are active there either through last call or getting ready to go to last call and Blues can talk about those in just a few seconds and there they are so that\u0027s that\u0027s all we\u0027ve got from the chairs like that so I would say Lou you\u0027re up [Music] so we have Gabbar running here so if we hear a ring and I stop and look down it\u0027s not because I\u0027m texting it\u0027s because I\u0027m looking at jabber hi I\u0027m Lou burger going to talk about feet up extensions this is work I\u0027ve been working on with the Dave Wiggins and Bonin Chang that\u0027s three oops I got it thank you the thought to build something a little funny here we\u0027re rendering PDFs but I think we can get the point we\u0027ve I think we just talked about the latency extension so I\u0027m not sure how much more no I\u0027m sorry we didn\u0027t talk about latency the other one so this is a document that\u0027s post last call the last call completed in February we addressed the comments as best as we could published an update and we didn\u0027t get any of any complaints so we think we\u0027re ready for public icing on this one I agree also I looked at that and it\u0027s it\u0027s a pretty it\u0027s a really simple document I think everyone\u0027s had time to look at it haven\u0027t and always ITF last call but it\u0027s really simple I\u0027ll do the write-up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:45",
    "text": "on that and move it forward thank you unless there\u0027s an objection in the room or on list I\u0027ll take it upon me to do that very soon and the lower ones were the ones I was referring to that those were already discussed on look at your slides now I heard it ring do we have something okay so I\u0027m gonna talk now about the active working group documents as well as one individual draft that we\u0027ve talked about in previous meetings that\u0027s all on the topic of credit based flow control and it\u0027s a set of extensions we have these documents have a bit of a history the it actually started with a meant that Stan wrote and that got modified the concepts got modified a bit and ended up in something that was Elop flow control and along the way there was some decisions to split the documents apart and that\u0027s why we have a zero-zero that we\u0027re noting that we think is ready for last fall the reason why we think it\u0027s ready for last call\u0027s we\u0027ve taken the last action that was identified as being open on the other that 0-3 document actually I guess we started with credit extension and more broke it into these three so I\u0027m gonna go through them a little bit more and but we think the first three are ready for last call as part of this process we identified that being able to do traffic classification based on Ethernet headers is a good thing as well sort of actually almost more aligned with develop and Ikey but so it\u0027s funny it\u0027s coming last but we we have an individual document on that and we think that that should be adopted by the working group it\u0027ll be interesting to see how much work we want to do after we go to adoption you may find we\u0027re gonna go rapidly to - last call right after adoption that said I think every author thinks that so once it comes into the working group we\u0027ll figure out what really needs to be done Rick Taylor I fully support the adoption of the Ethernet toss field credit extension I been like the traffic traffic classification draft it was part of the other document which was pretty mature the fact that it just got split openings we should be able to turn it around fast thank you actually Rick again this actually raises a larger question the reason we were splitting it out was to make sure that DNA extension Dean of extensions existed in their own document so that if you supported extension bar "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:46",
    "text": "there was a document called blah so the reason why the ethernet and the dscp extensions were split out into separate documents despite the fact they are almost a cut cutting paste with a replace for the word Ethernet and dscp in fact I missed one of those but does it make sense actually to say well why can\u0027t we just put two extensions in one draft disabled so I think you\u0027re actually presenting my slides for me which I\u0027m not at all which I\u0027m not at all opposed to but you really are saying the same things that I have here and that\u0027s actually great because what it shows is that I\u0027m in sync with the working group which is really what he at least at least with rec [Music] so as Rick was talking about we had in the working group in previous sessions talked about that it would be worthwhile to split the functions that are being find within the document so that they can be composed in different ways and that yes credit control is an important thing on its own but so is traffic classification and that in the future we might want to do traffic classification without credit control and we should be able to specify that that we can reference the RFC that brings in just traffic classification and doesn\u0027t bring in credit window control and that was the reason for the split you know I\u0027ll say that this was asked of the authors and we did that if the working group preferred to publish it together and we could get through the process faster we\u0027d be cool with that but we also buy into the rationale in the discussion sorry I\u0027ll keep it quick Rick Taylor again I was the guy who asked to split these simply because I want to do metrics per flow hence I wanted to refer to a document about flows without bringing in credit renewing my previous question was whether just because it\u0027s a new extension do I need a new document alright so that I think you\u0027re now getting to the bottom part of the slide so the other thing that we did is we do have a split of the diffserv aware credit window extension and here are now talking about extensions not data items and the 802 Q or Ethernet creditor extension and the reason those are two separate documents is that so you can specify that you want to be do Ethernet credit annoying or IP credit windowing and be clear what you\u0027re specifying as you know so that\u0027s both from a vendor standpoint as well as from a provider so our user standpoint you want to know what you have because if you don\u0027t if you don\u0027t split them we can have a router that says we\u0027re conformant with the extension and a radio Odom that says "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:47",
    "text": "it\u0027s conform it but one does Ethernet one does IP and guess what it work together so that\u0027s the reason for that split and that\u0027s reflected in the working group document which is the dip server where one and the individual document as Rick said these are basically identical documents but define a new extension value for each of those operations and just as a reminder excuse me as a reminder we have Ethernet traffic classification defined in our base traffic classification document why is it okay to have Ethernet and IP together in that document is because that document just defines data items it doesn\u0027t find the use of the data items the use of the data items happens in the extension documents those should be separate and that\u0027s why we don\u0027t see that reflected on the bottom the big thing in the extension documents is they do this they and by for those a remote I pointed to that they asked Diana for an extension time which is the key identifier to say what function were performing so what what\u0027s next we think the top three are ready for last call we think the bottom one is very simple as Rick said it\u0027s basically the same document as the destinated the diff server where credit extension but we\u0027ve done a said we\u0027ve done and replaced diff server where with ethernet or 802 Hydra blue 802 that one headers now on that last document we think we\u0027d like to adopt that one now if the chairs said well we\u0027ll adopt it last call for that actually would be our preferred outcome we thought it was a bit outrageous to put that on a slide but really hey you know I\u0027m an author I want to get my document done but it would if if we\u0027re not going to do that this is the next best thing is we\u0027d like to see the last call that the existing working group documents that we\u0027ve gone over and have been stable basically for I think two or three I ETFs now they\u0027ve been technically stable it\u0027s just the editorial stuff we\u0027ve been getting right and I do think those were good changes it\u0027s not that it was unnecessary delay we now have the documents in the right form this is Stan again I agree with you I think we oughta I think we should put the three documents you have listed there into last call and then also call for adoption okay because it\u0027s the chair is called but I think that\u0027s completely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:47",
    "text": "reasonable you know I I thought it would be a bit outrageous for us to say let\u0027s last call an individual document although that has happened on a document I\u0027ve authored in the past but it\u0027s unusual algorithm I wrote Andy I don\u0027t necessarily want to add more documents to my queue since I\u0027m already late as you pointed out in your first life I just wanted to point out that according to one of the RFC\u0027s that I forget the name the number of that talks about the working group process it is up to you as chairs for the side where you need to work at your best or not so in other words if that Ethernet draft is as you guys already talked about is pretty much similar to the other ones and there\u0027s no contention you could adopt the qualification okay point taken I was just a little bit concerned about one thing too much together because right now I figure it\u0027s the same chance as all of us being struck by lightning right now thank you didn\u0027t happen but somebody we could ask for for working group adopt it\u0027s of the of the ethernet credit extension and find somebody with some kind of odd out of left field concern that none of us thought of you know so I\u0027m just trying to trying to be inclusive and whatever let the process work so once we get it adopted then sure we can we can last caught pretty quick Rick Taylor at the the pause between adoption and last call for this is possibly worthwhile in case of IPR decorations because I know there are lots of people doing de leche things out there is the author\u0027s actually authors have no IPR to disclose equally I have no idea to disclose either but you just that a small lull just let people threats happen and possibly raise fingers is probably why suppose I\u0027m a firm believer of doing formal IPR polls also as people know from other working groups out of curiosity does anyone have any comments or objections on any of these documents okay okay I do want to point out that we my co-authors have some code published open source for gillip they have made a an update i meant to check where I came up here whether or not that got pushed it\u0027s actually the hope was before I stood up and talked that update would be available on the repo and that change was to put in sub data items and the putting in sub data items turned out to be a little more complicated then I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:50",
    "text": "would hope for and I my perspective this isn\u0027t the implementers perspective who\u0027s David my perspective is is it\u0027s because the implementation was done first without it in mind so some of it had to be refactored we did actually talk about a simplification that would have made his code easier to implement and agreed that it would not be the right format for the standard is that it really it actually was an unnecessary restriction that would hinder how he did sub data items of the future and what we had in the document was better even though it made his implementation work a little bit harder but it wasn\u0027t a big deal I mean in the end he\u0027s done it it\u0027s available it\u0027s tested I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m gonna have to close mine for time okay and that note I\u0027ll get I do have one one thing I would like to bring up there you look guarding multiple documents kind of a direction toward Alvaro and maybe the group in general is do we want to continue proceeding with having one extension per document or is there a way that is specified that the ITF uses where you can specify multiple extensions so that you know it\u0027s RFC xx xx dot - or some subset of that suspension this is Stan there was a an incredibly smart man who sat in an IETF iterated or who explained the case of if you\u0027re going to put multiple features into one document and you let implementers then pick and choose which feature they want that they can still claim compliance and I believe he the same really smart guy said it again right up here right now so my vote would be no for exactly the reason that Lou has commented on on multiple occasions with me in the room and that\u0027s the one to one in that way if you say I support RFC blah-dee-blah you know every piece of functionality that\u0027s I I agree with that but if there was a way that you say you support that our see you support everything in that RFC right III where\u0027s Williams lead to interoperability issues I wouldn\u0027t so I\u0027m I\u0027m in as a sort of from a philosophical standpoint I want to eliminate or minimize options in a document and like I said this is more of a question of how the ITF kind of wants to function with with those drafts is it a problem having you know a hundred he left drafts extensions as RFC\u0027s I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:50",
    "text": "thought maybe it is up to the right here what you wants to do personally just because they couldn\u0027t come into my queue I\u0027d rather have less documents to read by this is not the only working group that this point has been made about compliance and your RFPs and thinks of that sure you could ask the RFE the use report RFC five section two where that gets you know really complicated really not nice so if the working who wants to publish you know whatever number of extensions in different narcy\u0027s that\u0027s fine with me and that\u0027s fine with of our own quick question is it better for you to get the documents as a set or spaced out over time it depends the only thing that that\u0027s probably interesting to me is whether you want them publish as a set or not you\u0027ll end up with the the ones that have - six mention being in ref weight on the other to the other two can be published independently but the the second to depend on those first two again either way to me what\u0027s important is whether you rather have them published together or as a set makes a lot of sense but is it required absolutely not no and the other thing about about that is that you may want to for them to be processed together you know around the same time another one is you really want them to be published together meaning you know like I think it\u0027ll be make the the Directorate reviews the easier to manage them as a set yeah yeah I\u0027ve done with other working groups we\u0027ve done that before where we have the multiple depending documents together and not just for the director is but for the AAG and everyone else and usually what I end up doing is is sort of providing a little roadmap and saying this draft is the first one you should read and then read another one because there\u0027s dependency exactly and then it\u0027s easier for everyone to understand I agree about that yes so if you do that you let me know what you want it so that I don\u0027t have to measure the gas with all the pens are there way no the best thing to do yes thanks retail you again very quickly talking about rfp\u0027s the incoming RFPs I\u0027ve seen about deal app have actually specified extensions not numbers virtually because most of them are in drafts I\u0027m saying to people seem to be talking about I need this extension I need that extension so that argues for collapsing them or I should say it argues against separating them okay all right thank you let\u0027s take it to the list for the next presentation I\u0027m hoping first us is online okay we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:52",
    "text": "need you to enter the queue from me Cho or me deco [Music] she should talk returnee is he trying to talk yes yes I\u0027ve started write notes on my separate alright guys we can hear you okay and do you have my slides I should know Sally Sally projecting from here only do we see you we wish we were there with you actually so I I decided to come down by the pool actually so make make a good thing for you let me if I have my style of the presentation then yes yes go ahead all right guys essentially maybe you remember us we submitted a couple of years ago it was Arvind Rama Rama Rica one of my draft was called chameleon back then is it was admit that believe in 2014 in ITF I think he went to your meeting in Amsterdam presently the other thing and then I think he was in the States at some point present there as well since then we try to commercialize it we haven\u0027t been very successful to be honest with you I\u0027ll be honest and in the end us we are continuing the research path so what I am here I\u0027m down here actually I\u0027m in Malaysia at the moment and in Thailand earlier this week actually because we have a very big project funded by the UK government a fan\u0027s free UK University King University\u0027s Kingston sorry and Glasgow in Scotland to work with Malaysia a few universities in Malaysia to set up let\u0027s say a network and a medicine Network actually to support these communities when there is any catastrophic events like that - not me a few years ago so that\u0027s the reason I\u0027m down here actually in Malaysia actually working with guys who set up a prototype is we are actually one here and a bit on the project and and as I said actually sorry is part of the of the team Anna can you hear me yeah I\u0027m okay yeah yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:53",
    "text": "you\u0027re fine okay great and then and sorry actually provide the 5g infrastructure so essentially you have a 5g extension to that Kingston since this as I said actually long time ago we work on manats so we continue down that path on the research side of things so we do a bit of commercial activity of mammoths but I\u0027m not going to talk about this here so essentially I said before my ex PC students are veneer America and gran Miller actually created a design that protocol which was called chameleon chameleon was a kind of a Hydra protocol between profit even reactive routing protocols very well defined by the ITF so I\u0027m not going to spend time obviously talking to you about these protocols and so essentially we thought would to continue down design further designing and update in the protocol so what we have done who have created a second version if you like of this chameleon protocol which is called only parts chameleon and we\u0027re currently working on this on a prototype level as well as as I said actually I\u0027m here in Malaysia with the guys to set it up on the campus one of the campus in in the capital and Malaya University is the partner here local partner so essentially the plan here is actually to create a kind of in a new protocol still based on chameleon with for face phases of operation because still it practically reactive face still has disaffiliation face i know i know actually long time ago when we presented in IDF on IDF we got a lot of comments and a lot of kind of ideas for improving the protocol especially the automation plane so we\u0027ve done actually in order to improve it and we got a lot of comments on board is actually to create this monitoring face so we have added actually a new face if you like what\u0027s called monitoring face and we have created a further to a chameleon message this one is called the hop count request and hop count reply so they which would slide because i\u0027m trying to present your slides which its life or for okay just taught me now when you want me to change the slide through see anything on my scream i don\u0027t know why maybe i don\u0027t do something correct yeah anyway life or yeah so essentially a quick overview of the protocol so as "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:53",
    "text": "before it has four phase it\u0027s one more phase from the initial design the protocol and we have we are working actually the multipath extension of all SL version two and the reactive side is actually on iotv version two so during the morning during the monitoring page which is the new page design this face actually stringer by this foot-pound required when I received occupy no and then this motor in place is absolutely none within being proactive face now the reactive phrase is triggered when the network depending on the currents and that is been kinda run on the on the on our algorithm at fables reactive let\u0027s say parameters reactive statistics so in that case actually we\u0027re using the monitoring faith to trigger if you like we need reactive Fame now tipping point the transition between proxy and react is actually a dealt by the ocean a complaint which is the same within priori we make notable for the chameleon protocol a with Sameer idea that we thought now I\u0027m slide 5 so the previous idea is to create a set of level n values this is different from the previous protocol which is a particular specific to the individual routing protocol other either reactive or party so for this like specific submission we have created four scenarios by a trained thing we know density do not mobility energy consumption and the cold extremes requirements mainly mainly the England constraint and all would have done have actually investigated and selected the scenario by running ms3 simulations we use the other three to define the best shooting scenario for our case our case one more time a safe is based on emergency medicine situation an emergency case so the audacity the adaptive my mold module inside the node analyzes the network scenarios and then three gives the appropriate place so business nough said is new from the previews chameleon protocol this monitoring phase if I go to slice it now we have a visual the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:55",
    "text": "presentation so essentially how the algorithm works so have a monic deployment again I stress that this is an emergency deployment and we entered that beef face of the protocol then depending on the corporate count required we are actually running the M phase within the m p face then depending on the network scenario selecting England specifically case we have actually four scenarios we are actually monitoring the situation and then if the depending on the obviously how dynamic the network is not with me we are using the equation made to fit from pre-placed work essentially if you give if I want to kind of summarize it you we operate named on face like we own trade then depending on our compound request and the monitoring phase in which we may be using the oscillation face to our face the reaction phase quicklinks on slide seven which is the actual algorithm and I would have implemented on an s3 again as as I told earlier on we have five procedure so the operating on OLS and we have the thing which is on oil beneath version two again a mental note we don\u0027t use at this expecting the multipath LDV version two we use actually the clean air will beep intention to so this is if you like that kind of efficiency of the silent reasoning but our next people like release hopefully we be able to accommodate a beautiful extension of believers in truth then we have M faith in the monitoring phase which is a solid monitor recon come with welfare so depending on the phone I\u0027m coming to requests and using the adaptive module depending on the network side rest world which again depends on the certain characteristics earlier the community we call be of service than the local network and so on each latest if it needs to be to be so to using the later phase to a reactive protocol in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:02",
    "text": "our case activation to if I go to slide 8 please so balance between between balance point between preface and our face or rock to face in the reactive face which depends on the neck on networks nice fresh way again lead to our stress years after this hasn\u0027t rained from the previous design of our chameleon protocol which essentially again we still use the network type nor denied it removed from reality no my god i speedy Express and and and oscillate that little late avoid movement very logical solutions now essentially what a common with not very active in 2014-15 14 because that what happens if they met with stage 4 sometime in late inflatable and I know this is a problem with the efficiency of design we try to so if you like shorten it out we have put the maximum how ultimately depends on the number of hops and usually we take the to hoax scenario before we are to be speak to the population rate depends on one honestly you know and this is something which is ongoing it is it is a no improvement for us and this is something we want to continue working on and finally if the last slide we begin my slide 9 so future directions what we plan to do next of course very important for us from the end we still to our work with you guys the manic working group we also said we were we are old friends of yours we were away fruiting but the hopefully we get back on with this new design the next in terms of technical characteristics the next the next step is action quad multiple question of nor the reactive nature will be win all week and implement that to my own ministry also the other thing you need to actually to say select feathers and I had among you have four scenarios we want to work on a further and video number of scenarios such as a little team of network scenarios are actually increased and thus actually you might pick you can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:04",
    "text": "even like to select from and make your system little bit more intelligent more adaptive routing scenario so this is the second thing you want to do and obviously we want to continue working on the simulations I think the empirical side of things by creating this in you grow the collection or ministry hopefully bacon is available on on there for the global community to welcome my manager Christo\u0027s I hate to interrupt but we are really really time constrained and I know there\u0027s a question so we no problem crowning from the cares from the chairs perspective my only question to you would be you\u0027ve listed out some future directions do you also envision as one of your future directions that you would be asking the working group to accept this document and move it through the working group or is this more of an informational type thing we moving through your working group and I know it takes nine in a fixed effort obviously if you go get good advice from yourself from yourselves guys hopefully won\u0027t take this okay Charlie okay my name is Charlie Perkins and I\u0027ll make it quick but I just have a couple of questions first of all there\u0027s a monitoring phase what where where\u0027s the monitoring occurring I mean it\u0027s her part ARDS a distinguished device and the network that\u0027s doing the monitoring or is it some sort of distributed monitoring or how is that yeah together maybe we work together with my student Arvind maybe you remember him actually you paint with you to in in I think it was enough now because anything is here like a million for the road good to see you good to see you so essentially yes the morning monitoring phase then together this is numbered slide number seven so the monitoring actually is part of the adaptive module that was in the previous design really different as I said before is we monotone will be account request this is decibel the plans here is definitely distributed and first thing and the second thing is hopefully we want to use a some time some type of artificiality "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:04",
    "text": "like Delta to play in the same thing and for us in order to train the system what we need to do we need to have more scenarios I know you where that\u0027s at least what we got them together I know you probably you remember a mailing list with this and because this is good stuff and and I think we should keep talking but we\u0027ve only got an hour yeah I think we don\u0027t have time today but we should take this to the list and it\u0027s an interesting development in terms of future of many and possible work I don\u0027t know that this specific like the specifics we can get into on the list about how a how a new dynamic using a OD v v2 and LS r v2 protocol could work and if that\u0027s something the working group wants to work on that seems like the logical next step but again we should take that to the list and have details worked out on the list and in the future so if I he\u0027s very big the moment to find the role i OD little working on the periphery of the network so I think probably becoming like anything thank you thank you very much thank you brain and I know we had talked about the length of your presentation it would really help me if you thank you hi my name is ed brain I\u0027m from the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics lab I\u0027m a member of the DTN working group one of the things that we have been working on in DTN is what does network management look like in a DTN and looks a little bit like this so [Laughter] so so I\u0027m I\u0027m on an unaligned boundary so one of the things that we had started looking at in DTN was how do we manage a delay tolerant Network and how do we manage a case where we have constant disruptions we cannot assume sessions and in particular we cannot assume a pull model of information and we looked at that from a couple of different perspectives we looked at it from the challenges that news face is looking at from certain sensor networks vehicle networks other resource constrained networks and and the way we distilled the problem was to say that if you look at some of the most constrained use cases we have which are spacecraft fault "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:06",
    "text": "management systems yeah so I did you know flight software for New Horizons which was out past Pluto we really didn\u0027t have a concept of a timely round-trip data exchange and we will hand up having we wound up there interesting stories about that after the working group but we wound up coming back and saying autonomy models for fault management are necessary we do not need sessions associated with that and we know how to do it and pretty much all spacecraft do it in about the same way their proprietary differences but but from a logical decomposition they do it about the same way and it is not the way that we manage networks in data centers today because we have high availability links we have standards and open source tools and very large investments the question that we\u0027re trying to answer in detain is is there a motivating overlap between these highly autonomous but very customized management systems and the more commoditized high rate pull session systems and we came back and said we think that there is a use and a utility for creating something that lives in that overlap and that is what we are starting to put forward in DTN for network management next slide so we coined the term asynchronous management and it is the idea that we are looking at open-loop control over a network where the devices have high disruptions and high delays either as a matter of physics and signal propagation delay or simply as a matter of priority or the cost associated with maintaining those connections and in that we had decomposed the work into three layers the first is something called the asynchronous management architecture which laid out sort of the logical decomposition of how you would do this and what logical data models roles and responsibilities and system properties would be there for all intents and purposes it is like a requirements document for how one would do asynchronous management second from that we created a physical data model we call it an application data model and it is primitives associated with that model and how you would communicate them and examples are shown here in terms of externally defined data literals operators time and state-based rules and reports and strongly typed variables and and these should not be particularly new for anyone that is looking at doing different kinds of management the important part of this is that the definition of Management in this case is not simply performance monitoring of reports coming back it is open loop control saying I need to configure the device so that when I cannot communicate with you these are the responses I need you to take this is the data you need to know when to report and when not to report and that requires more than just a table and report semantics and then the last is something called the ANP the asynchronous management protocol which is one of potentially many encoding zuv "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:06",
    "text": "that data model in this case using Seaborg and my last slide if we go to it is we are we are starting to standardize this where we have many drafts that are coming forward in the context of the DTN working group the first the AMA is out there it is a a personal draft but it has been put in as a detailed working group draft AMAO seven and if you are interested in this that is the place to start looking in terms of overall what we\u0027re trying to accomplish in terms of the data model template and the JSON encoding of that template what we have we have done has taken several applications and protocols associated with DTM a generic bundle protocol data model a bundle Protocol security model and so on and captured what it would be like to manage those protocol agents and then we\u0027ve taken some open source implementations for things called ion which is NASA JPL\u0027s implementation of DTN and created some data models associated with how to manage those specific applications and not the generic protocols and we\u0027ve put that together and released it and they\u0027re continuing to maintain that reference implementation open source using the ANP protocol which will be the Seabourn coding of both the encoding of the objects between agents and managers in the system but also it implements the full set of autonomy specifications that you need to do the kind of things you want to do end-to-end so the reason that we were hoping to bring this up to this working group is to come back and say part of our motivation was new space part of our motivation we\u0027re sensor networks and part of our motivation were mobile networks and and a question out to the group one is if people are interested in this too please go look at some of the specs and provide comments and also to try and help us understand what the kind of network management challenges you will face when you are trying to manage these highly mobile networks otherwise thank you very much thank you very good comment Rick Taylor as working group chair of TTN we are kind of taking this around outside of GTN because we understand that we can\u0027t just come up with entirely our own way of network modeling network management so we\u0027ve been going to nm RG they\u0027re confident mod well sorry well actually we kind of went to that come from they said go away so we took it to their boss but we went to the wrong place but you know we\u0027re going around the working groups so this we think has relevance elsewhere all expertise as it said or comment please alright next speaker okay I\u0027ll be quick so this is a this is a pre draft concept that the joy of the IETF meetings as you speak to smart people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:07",
    "text": "and ideas sort of start to consolidate so just as a quick recap the there are two thing two reasons for delay one is based on the premise that the radio system knows more about what is happening on the local link than the router does so the it\u0027s a better idea for the Rooter to go down to the radio system and say what is going on the second point is that if you can bootstrap a lot of your hello protocols you can pre-fill your ARP caches you can send around some initial data in many networks where you have very short contact times the more you can get chucked across the control plane of the radio the better it means your adjacencies very short-lived adjacencies are still usable so I\u0027m not going to read the slides but fundamentally multicast protocols and some other useful protocols rely on rendezvous points you know there is something is elected in your to hop neighborhoods or whatever that is used to as a forwarding point for distributing now a lot of the algorithms that decide how to elect a rendezvous point they\u0027re either statically configured or they use a to hop neighborhood or whatever the radio system underneath has its own topology built on its own physics and its own way of working yeah SATCOM hub-and-spoke you want to elect the hub to be the relay point it seems a really sensible thing to say but you\u0027re routing over that may just go hey I\u0027ve got I\u0027ve got seven peers which one should I choose the one with the lowest ID which happens to be a spoke you know so there\u0027s some very quick examples there so the proposal next slide please is to allow a modem to inform a Rooter that it is a good candidate as a relay so the modem can say hey I\u0027m in a good spot I\u0027ve got good coverage to all my peers I seem to be in the middle of the cloud of local nodes and the other part is to a Rooter to say hey when you see a new dear modem when a new destination comes up please tell him that I have been elected as the relay because it saves you bootstrapping and it saves kicking up a new leader election or whatever okay so this is although this is really useful for multicast specifically PIM and that kind of stuff this is not this is orthogonal to the multicast components that are in T lip already so it\u0027s not talking about multicast Metrix multicast destinations unrelated next slide please so how do we do this a deal of extension of course so we\u0027re proposing a new extension and there\u0027s a question about this later on which is would introduce two new data items which would be per destination data items so one saying route a relay point hey I\u0027m a Rooter and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:07",
    "text": "I whether a route willingness to be a relay or whether it has been elected to be a relay the election is banned or you know what over whatever algorithm was running and the other data item would be the mode M relay point so that the modus of the radio system could inform the router to say hey I don\u0027t know how you\u0027re sorting out your relays but you would be a really good candidate or the counter example is actually you\u0027d be a really bad candidate you\u0027re currently in a tunnel you can only see one other pair for God\u0027s sake don\u0027t elect yourself as a don\u0027t announce that you\u0027re a good relay point because you\u0027re not next slide yeah so this is the proposed set of drafts I\u0027ve started putting some text together for a relay point extension draft it\u0027s the standard boilerplate old ion a registration for extension point IDs layouts of the data items ba-ba-ba-ba-ba I think there could be a second draft to say given this extension this is how you make it work with PIM so how do I use this in order to become a rendezvous point before multicast onus avi two uses - hot baby discovery in order to elect a designated Rooter I\u0027m trying to remember my own SR - we need some advice from that community and you could use the deal app extension to influence your leader election possibly OSPF MDR I know it was only experimental I\u0027m not sure how far through it got through but it used the same principle of well let\u0027s form a little cluster and elect a leader questions and we return on where we just real quick pin and then won\u0027t the errand process of replicating ASM which means that you don\u0027t need green eyes anymore right because most of the month it\u0027s that that we see is a single source multicast yeah I don\u0027t know in the sense of networks that we work here if there is a lot of any source multicast and then you need you know the relation all that stuff I\u0027m just saying this because if what you see a single source then don\u0027t work on the pin thing right there\u0027s no but then I\u0027m not a pin expert isn\u0027t there is still tree building and for intermediate nodes within your tree for for branch branch nodes in your tree they\u0027re effectively relaying if they\u0027re not running if they\u0027re running off n BMA links yes it\u0027s not a random appoint yeah it\u0027s a relay in the other sense that isn\u0027t that is maybe the best path to the to the source yeah so it\u0027s - I am a good relay data right or not I am the rendezvous point for your source so it may be more in the sense of everything else which is I\u0027m a better candidate to be at the senior forward or for example yeah yeah but good point about wonder viewpoints sort of disappearing small question how does this approach solve the problem of having the layer to its "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:07",
    "text": "its own topology right so that\u0027s exactly what it\u0027s designed for now because you still so when a node says it monitors it\u0027s its layer - it knows that it\u0027s very good in average and then it\u0027s SN a request to be part of the candidate relay set at the end used you mentioned you have to be elected meaning the decision to take him as a next hop is taken before the transmission on not after so I chew it tells me that he has a very good layer to so I said all right I\u0027m using you send it on then like one is going after I know there is a condition changed because that\u0027s what we\u0027re this is about and then it may not be that good actually yeah right okay so I\u0027d be I\u0027ve gone very quickly because we\u0027re short of time so I\u0027ve covered I made a lot of assumptions by prior knowledge the the signals that are coming through are not sets they are not demands they\u0027re purely informational so the radio can say you would be a good relay the router can completely ignore that you know it may say hey I\u0027m running on two double-a batteries I\u0027m not gonna be a relay so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s purely informational transfer and it can change over time they\u0027re a develop destination update you could say hey you\u0027re a good relay point and then a minute or two later you can say you\u0027re not anymore you know you\u0027re in a moving vehicle you\u0027ve disappeared don\u0027t be a relay anymore what the other layer does is entirely up to the other layer it\u0027s just providing more information and following from that point is this actually two extensions is one so the router can say hey I\u0027ve been elected a relay point perhaps link layer you might be able to do something or and please pass this on to other people so we can do fast bootstrapping of who\u0027s the relay and is the other extension the modem able to signal to the route up to layer three to say you would be a good candidate or you would not be a good candidate questions is this and this goes back to the one document two extensions one extension that covers quite a few things are two different abilities use cases I\u0027m looking at the chairs and this is probably taking less I\u0027m happy to you I\u0027m happy to keep answering questions so Justin Dean just wanted men on olace RV - there\u0027s a willingness value exactly yeah and I believe that\u0027s bits 0 through 8 are learning it and then are and then an SMF there\u0027s a router priority number that is a one byte field and that could be a classic thing where you could just feed right into yeah just drop straight in I mean and all those sort of related protocols have a willingness and enable flag kicking around in some way Neuberger in the interest of limiting scope of information and improving layering you might consider instead of making the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:08",
    "text": "decisions for the router because that\u0027s what you\u0027re doing is you\u0027re making a router decision provide the information that is useful to the router to make that decision so if what\u0027s really going on is is you\u0027re identifying who\u0027s richly connected have an extension that says connectedness and then have a document that says if you\u0027re running him use one who has the highest connectedness and then you know and maybe I\u0027ll use that connec connected connectiveness one Bay learning to speak connectedness for something else in the future this this is Stan right you have clearly explained the intent of what we were talking about here the idea was not to do the decision for the router the idea was for the modem to have a vector by which it could tell the router by the way I\u0027m I\u0027m a good candidate now but that assumes the router it assumes that you have to give the modem knowledge of the selection algorithms of what makes a good RP basically rather than do that just provide some additional parameters up from from the modem to the router and it can use it any way it wants command today we\u0027re using it for multicast selection tomorrow we might use it for something else yeah can I paraphrase I think you\u0027re saying don\u0027t my proposal what our proposal is boolean flag good bad your proposal is make it an integer called connectiveness you know you can you can see I am connected directly to 18 rather than 4 and you could use that so yeah maybe you have some favorite items that says I\u0027m connected with this family that\u0027s but that\u0027s that\u0027s a big metric that\u0027s right it\u0027s a good point yeah this was a proposal document comments please by the way I think it\u0027s great stuff and would like to see it so it\u0027s not that yeah I think I\u0027m against it I think we\u0027ve got something here so did everyone sign the blue sheets if you haven\u0027t sir up here [Music] "
  }
]