[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:10",
    "text": "good morning and welcome to TechNet funny thing is I just happened to pull out the agenda and pulled out the one that said that net agenda Prague Congress hall one and I realized it was the wrong day so we were in this room two years ago well so welcome back I\u0027m Lou burger there\u0027s a janosh Park us Ethan Grossman our secretary is sitting up front our agenda and slides are available in the standard place as is our working group information this is the IETF if you didn\u0027t notice anything you say and do here is governed by our contribution BCP seventy seventy nine if you\u0027re unfamiliar with it please go look it up and they also have the link on the bottom to the note well which is capturing what you see here anything that you say here in the session at the mic while standing become a part of our permanent record and is subject to the IETF contribution rules we are streaming video and audio the video will be posted also after the session so if you do come and speak please make sure to mention who you are at the mic you don\u0027t need to say company affiliation but you do need to say your name please also help out by joining in on etherpad and help with our collaborative note-taking it\u0027s particularly important if you make comments at the mic to go check to make sure that your name is there properly and that your comment is appropriately captured so please jump on you actually don\u0027t need to put the question mark part there if you just put in notes ITF 104 debt net that\u0027ll get you to the right place there\u0027s also a link to it on the tools page it\u0027s a little easier to find this is the agenda that was posted the only changes we have to it and it\u0027s actually not reflected on this slide but the only changes we have aren\u0027t speakers unfortunately norm Finn can\u0027t be with us today we hope to see him in Montreal and so we have someone else presenting and we have a change of presenters on the flow information draft the Leif bal√°zs will be presenting rather than janosh as always we the the mailing list is there for a few things it is where we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:10",
    "text": "establish consensus for the working group so anything that we say here any decisions that we take here aren\u0027t in fact it decisions until they are confirmed on the list also it is the right place to introduce a draft this is not the right place to introduce a draft to the working group you should do it on the list and get some good discussion on the list and it\u0027s far more likely that if you have something a new contribution it\u0027s far more likely that you\u0027ll make progress with that contribution if it\u0027s first discussed on the list and two authors like to remind you that author authorship we really appreciate your contribution having private discussions to help move the ball forward is fantastic but no change agreed to by authors our final until they\u0027re agreed to by the working group so it\u0027s great that you have agreements on the among authorship among the authors but that\u0027s not the valuable place the valuable place is the working group and the list is the right place to confirm that we do have an IPR disclosure process to make sure that we have appropriate disclosures on and and we check that at sort of two wickets one is the document is adopted to the working group and then the second is before we go to last call and the these met these IPR polls are directed to authors and contributors named in the draft but it\u0027s really to everyone in the working group because everyone has an opportunity to contribute to this just because you\u0027re listed on the draft doesn\u0027t mean you own the draft the working group owns two drafts so it\u0027s your draft so please contribute and if you contribute please do make sure you can form with the IETF IPR rules so where do we stand on our different documents we have two documents with the RFC editor this is fantastic these are our first set of documents that are finally making out too into the RFC editor queue and will be our first documents published as a working group it it\u0027s taken us a little longer than we\u0027d wanted and the way it hoped for but we are starting to see things make it into the IFC and make it into the RFC attitude and will soon have RFC so that\u0027s fantastic really appreciate all the hard work of the group we have a document the architecture document is with the isg there was a number of questions placed on that document notably from the security area we really appreciate all the hard work of the of the authors and also the authors and contributors to the security document who helped come up with some text that improve the document as well as address the original comments from the 80s so we\u0027re hoping that that also has passed the major major hurdles to for approval and with in short order we\u0027ll make it into the RFC editor queue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:10",
    "text": "as well we have a number of working group documents on the agenda so we\u0027ll be hearing about those shortly not on the agenda is the security document we\u0027ve been holding that up to make sure that we don\u0027t make sure it\u0027s well aligned with the solutions and that if we find something and defining the solutions we don\u0027t have to reopen the security so document you\u0027ll hear later that we hope to be getting solutions documents popping out of the working group being submitted to with publication requests - the iesg by Montreal if that does in fact happen then maybe it\u0027s time to think about that it that we submit this one as well but it doesn\u0027t have to be the first document so we keep this in mind and think about maybe we\u0027ll be doing this along with those other documents or soon after Montreal this is just a reminder I think everyone is familiar with this the we are starting to deliver actually deliver to the iesg for publication on these pieces the one thing to think about is where we go next we\u0027re not quite ready to talk about that we need some documents actually can make it into the isg but we\u0027ve had a number of discussions about whether we go to control plane or start bringing in that there\u0027s other just topics that we\u0027ll get to one later about what things that are in scope or out of scope but if you have other topics you think are appropriate to bring into the debt networking group you know perhaps Montreal is a good place to start thinking about that talking about that not everything is within our the scope of the working group it\u0027s important to look at the Charter and understand if you bring some something new to the group that it may there may be another place in the IETF which is the right place for that but you can bring things in well we\u0027ll discuss it figure out where where to go and of course those discussions happen with rads in the room Deborah as well as our advisers such as David will see David black sitting right here so I think that\u0027s enough of that Oh with that we\u0027re ready to move on yeah no she is going to talk about architecture Oh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "okay as loom and the architecture draft is video ESG and we had we had updates to address the comments this presentation summarizes the major or main updates we we have made since the publication request which was actually on version 8 and now we are at version 12 actually there were two groups of review comments on version 8 we got the reviews from the from the various areas of the IETF and then on version 11 the iesg review comments these links in the slide lead you to the two ways of showing the diff between the two versions version 8 and version 12 if you are interested in the details you can check the order of the updates described in this presentation is based on what had the major effect or may bigger effect in the document the first category of the updates was to clean up the document in order to avoid confusion with the terminology that is used in the transport area like the word transport itself and congestion control and so on so the one of the big steps was renaming the former transport sub layer to forward in sub layer so the the figure is copied from the draft the we have we have we divided the definite layer into two sub layers and the lower one is the forwarding sub layer the upper one is the service supplier another big terminology change that had an effect on the draft was to use the use of resource allocation instead of the former congestion protection so these both these changes as I said it\u0027s to avoid confusion with the terminology of the transport area this text in the bottom is copied from the draft the main techniques were using in that nut with this update is the resource allocation service protection and the explicit routes there were further clarification is related to congestion control so we had to talk about okay what if some lava flows and the congestion control as RFC 2914 and we have added text after discussions on the list too to address and clarify these aspects actually this presentation is populated with links to emails I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:16",
    "text": "tried to capture of course I could not capture everything because it was multiple internet threats but if you are interested that\u0027s that\u0027s where the links lead you and further clarification was added related to congestion control that there is no expectation for the death metaphors to be to be responsive to the congestion control or explicit congestion notification so this is the new phrasing in the draft how we make it clear that we don\u0027t expect congestion control to be used for data to flows I copied the principles we had behind those updates because it was multiple rounds first first we got rid of the terms transport and congestion control and then we had to add it back and for that we didn\u0027t want to introduce any new term we wanted to minimize it you I think back to congestion like the term we have removed previously and we removed phrases like throttling that were not not clear so these were the updates related to the congestion control our transport area terminology part and inertia is interruption do you mind going back one there\u0027s a really important here there\u0027s a ripple effect is that we end up and tell me if I\u0027m jumping the gun we end up having to at the sort of service interface level understand whether or not the application traffic is supports congestion control or not and that has a ripple effect down to our flow model to eventually our yang model that\u0027s something that we hadn\u0027t really had before was awareness of something it related to the application and the reason for that is in the - as part of addressing this and I think you may hit that later is is that there\u0027s some extra text and some requirements that what we have to do for traffic that is not progestin controlled yes good good point actually this is the introductory text and we have further text so I\u0027m jumping again I apologize so I\u0027m kind of worried about that because people used to have to throw that rocket us in the pseudo while working group and we and we pointed out that the the amount of traffic that went in the open that was not congestion aware was trivial and we managed to avoid doing because in the cases where it is congestion or congestion causing I suppose or non non non elastic it\u0027s in a controlled environment I hope we\u0027re not going to require sort of full analysis of all the applications before they can deploy it on this network no no what we did is as you pointed out it\u0027s coming in in the next aspect that so two points this is as the Charter says and this is one of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:16",
    "text": "clarifications that we we are we are for a single administrative domain so it\u0027s a kind of controlled environment plus we had the text to make rate limiting and use of shapers and so on and that\u0027s all you need you don\u0027t have to know every floor everything like that it is these really think tools that that you used to have protection against misbehavior and stuff like that and you in the input to the death net domain so once they have to be a single domain as opposed to a set of domains that understand what they\u0027re doing we\u0027re following our charter or maybe we need to revisit that because it seems unreasonable that - you can\u0027t split your area into two yeah your domain into multiple components it\u0027s an su Qi maybe we can we can we can add that extension in in the charter update I guess it\u0027s good to good to wrap up the work with the current charter first and then we can can make enhancements later on I guess people would just ignore it if they don\u0027t like it okay back to the slides another big change as you also mentioned is actually we have rewritten the security considerations section based on the review comments we got from security ad and thanks for all the help on that I think it is an improvement it is it is a lot here what from architecture perspective what we are after and somewhat related update was to the privacy consideration sections where actually the clarification was to make it clear that that nut doesn\u0027t bring in any new privacy considerations so there were two updates to make that clear again based on iest review one of the comments was from the security area another major subject was that what are the capabilities of Nan that not nodes what about non definite flows where is that not nodes and that not flows and multiple clarifications have been added to to this extend to the introduction and and different sections on on what do we expect from non that methods and when where they can appear in in deployment and also what our best expectation on that natural flows or what I what I done on that that flows and this this leads to the the other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:18",
    "text": "topic that was had multiple updates on on clarifications for the protection of non that not flows against that not flows so how do we make sure that that somebody which remains for non that not flows and stuff like that protection against misbehaving devices or misbehaving flows whether or not that not on and that net flows as I mentioned before the key thing here is the lady meeting and shaping for functions we have in at the input of the death net domain for for death net flows and this was another text added for the protection of the downstream hope after that net domain so these were the the updates related to malfunctioning misbehavior and compared to the previous one there were smaller updates on clarifications related to definitions and terms definitions have been updated like the app flow the definite flow itself these are the most important ones that\u0027s why I copied them here and we have multiple types of death net nodes and in version 8 it was not clear we have clarified actually the definition plus the use of these at these terms to the document and correspondingly we added an umbrella term that did yet not note if we don\u0027t want to go specify whether it\u0027s transit note or relay another what specific aspect so this this was a smaller updates to add the document and the deadness sub layers I mentioned the terminology change and actually in addition to that the definition was extended to make it clear upfront in the definition that that nut has two sub layers and the reader doesn\u0027t have to jump up and read that that section with the figure I copied but it\u0027s obvious from the definition that okay we have two sub layers one of them is the forwarding one of them is the service earlier there was a reordering of the definition to make them in lexicographic order and there were comments to clarify the scope this was the on resonate like as I mentioned that based on the Charter they are first single administrative domain so I think we would serve ourselves much better if we had said that within a controlled domain and not in the open Internet and the reason I say this is that one of the things that we did after you\u0027re learning from a pseudo wire sort of heritage as soon as we\u0027ve done pseudo "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:19",
    "text": "wires which were designed for a single administrative domain we had to do multi segment pseudo wires which are definitely not a single administrative terrain and I can imagine that such things will be needed in debt net as well so I think the important thing is that it\u0027s a it\u0027s it\u0027s one or more controlled domains not a single administrative domain which has its own set of restrictions but if it is that\u0027s it to control domains are you looking after having different owners of those yes yes yes oh so for example in multi segment pseudo wire we the one the reason for introducing it was so that the tax could be managed by each other labels can be managed by the domain separately so I think we would serve as much better if we point you to the real problem here which is that this is about control and oversight of the deployment and not about the the restriction to a single administration so I think it\u0027s worthwhile to go look at the text the actual text of the document and see what\u0027s in the body of the text see what\u0027s in the different consider section I\u0027m pretty sure that the only place that uses the word single administrative domain is when we\u0027re talking about security and the rest of the the architecture talks about I think the exact quote it\u0027s not for large groups of domains such as the internet so I think we can probably all agree that debt net is not for the large groups a domain such as the internet that\u0027s actually stated in our Charter and I\u0027m not sure we that we were gonna have any contention there now the point about whether it\u0027s limited to a single administrative domain or not I\u0027ll point out look at the document and read it in context please it Deborah is speaking with both hats because this comes up all the time now is Jay and also as an operator participating in the many groups this is really a hot button item domain what is the domain and and you could even say a detonate domain crosses multiple administrative domains do its pointing out it the most important thing is it\u0027s a controlled domain right or actually like you insane sub networks may not be dead aware and you can still get across them so I would say Stuart says that we think this just a little bit and if in this security sections you have administrative domain I\u0027d be a little bit worried about that one too so I think just give it a couple of thoughts more before deciding yes we have avert we have a version out there but these are definitely not technical changes these are clarifications so we just gotta get it right like you said the the Charter is pretty clear you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:20",
    "text": "so most important is you don\u0027t want to say it\u0027s the open Internet and so I\u0027m realizing I need to apologize it may be my fault of using the term single administrative domain so the text we have on the screen is the text what what we have in the document in the body and this is the text what we have in the Charter so what this in the text I copied from the introduction here is copied from the Charter to the document and it doesn\u0027t say single ethnicity of domain it says a group of had initiative control that\u0027s what it says consideration section it talks about a security consideration about an intent of a single administrative domain that\u0027s in the security consideration section it does say that well how about swapping out with like stored control we may consider changing that wording to this I think what we have here as I would say administrative control close group it\u0027s you know it\u0027s cooperating administrators replace the word single replace domain and single administrative domain to single administrative control yeah something let\u0027s or close group administrative control something get away from the word domain that\u0027s a hot item I\u0027m very careful I\u0027m very worried about making any change like even at this level given the discussions that have happened with the iesg so you have to make sure that we\u0027re really well coordinated with you and yeah we have to be very careful here yeah well if for some reason they want well just if they don\u0027t they push back under under getting removing domain I\u0027ll just say this is we all know this is very confusing so sorry Stuart who keeps forgetting to identify himself I think that the text under you got introduction extended that\u0027s scoping there of single admission of control or within a closed group of administrative control it\u0027s very reasonable and sort of sets out what we need to do and maybe we should make sure that that scope is reflected everywhere where there is a constraint it\u0027s the security section we need to double check because actually that was the one that gone under a major rewrite based on the resu comment and we may have not noticed that we should have been more careful with this or in that part but but we did attention in the abstract and in the introduction upfront to be in line with the Charter and I be very careful in the Charter as it so this is a text okay thank you for that feedback and there was some discussion and clarification on the priority queuing that I - relates to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:21",
    "text": "that nut I just thought to mention because it was multiple emails with multiple people and number of references have been added based on based on comments I listed them here and there are further smaller updates these links actually lead you to the announcement of the different drafts which emails summarize what changes have been done from the previous version and linked and provides the links to the email discussions so this is it David Platt first time we have the transport area thank you for the changes here massive improvements to the current version over over what you started from an innovate also on briefly fought Mona Stuart\u0027s comments it should not be necessary to individually analyze applications for congestion control or the lack thereof rather there\u0027s some fairly obvious debt net use cases that aren\u0027t congestion control broadcast video for video editing zadavia of an obvious one like I think I don\u0027t think is up or more the paradigm to apply here is that unless you know it\u0027s congestion controlled assume it isn\u0027t and take appropriate measures and that applies doubly if you\u0027re doing packet replication and and elimination because of that replication if one of the two or how many replicate flows you have escapes the elimination note may not notice that it\u0027s only receiving receiving the other flow which means I\u0027ve now got this completely non-responsive flow going out and causing damage but in general you should not need to do the application analysis just if in doubt assume it\u0027s not congestion controlled take appropriate measures at the boundaries yeah for that particular issue you you just face at the end this is the text we are did we develop together with you that\u0027s an excellent point and it the place where that will impact is the yang models that are being developed so first of all we have to add in a way to configure to indicate this so we don\u0027t have that right now we can make that optional with a default value of true that it is that it\u0027s not sorry I guess that\u0027s false you may eat break I mean make it optional deep deep default to not mean if even if in doubt read as potential source of problems and deal with them then if you have no problems things are even better thank you the next one is / - I guess we don\u0027t have these ping books this time but we have a pink cross somewhat interesting but okay my name is Mirage Varga I would like to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:21",
    "text": "give you an update but has happened in the data plane solution document so there we have a pretty big improvement I think regarding the change from the previous version so let\u0027s summarize it so in this slides I will go through the changes in both the IP and mpls data pain solution but before going to that we had some discussion regarding the document structure and this is where we would like to ask for some feedback from the from the group and of course I will finish me the next step slide in order to show what improvements we intend to do in order to reach the verbal glass goal and finalize the document so before going to other changes let\u0027s let\u0027s see - a question where where we need some input from the Virgo during the discussion of the different deafness scenarios we have identified in the document several scenarios some of them were ha F flow is mapped to that the data plane and had high desert some scenarios were focused just purely on the on the death net data plane in order to what processes are needed for the different that that functions and some of the scenarios were focused on how to interconnect with a subnet where to death net nodes so based on this discussion from the scenarios we concluded that there is a basic question and it is are we specified in building blocks or or solution and this is also translates how many document at the end we need in order to describe the data plane in ITM generally we are defining building blocks and this is for example the scenario with the amperes data plane and it was defined without any description of what is carried in and pls and time pls is carried over and specific technologies so a similar analogy can be used also for the ratna data plane however some other organizations are specifying solutions so this is the question in the current approach we have two documents and based on the structure we need some feedback and this is what we have summarized in this slide where we are currently and what would be the proposal for the further improvement of the document so currently we have two document one is dealing with the IP data plane solution and one with but what is dealing with the MPLS data plane solution and they are the drawing in the upper right corner this is just trying to highlight what is there inside those documents so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:21",
    "text": "we have core data plane related sections during the data type II and data temporalis we have sections dealing with map of course it a plane to underlying transport so TSN IP MPLS and in the MPLS document we also have some text covering TSM interconnect over MPLS scenario so if we intend to take the building block approach and and follow how MPLS related our seas are defined then the proposal would be to split these two documents in maybe seven different documents the first two would concentrate only on the death net IP data plane and Imperius data plane and the maybe also framework related stuff the next four would deal with her death not over different sub networks can work so you are interconnecting to death net notes over over sub network and the seventh document would deal hard TSM can be provided over at that domain regarding the framework this is something that might be published as a separate informational document so I think this is something that can be decided as during the last bit of the documents and if we look to the current document structure it is really supporting the split so we have dedicated chapters dealing with with these topics so we think also that that after the split some of the documents will be practically finished and and can go to a verbal blast for so in the next slide we have just summarized but would be the result of the split and that is achievable before the montr√©al meeting so the split and publish the drafts this is valid for all of the documents and they think that on four of the drafts maybe it is possible to reach the very last call before Montreal the two document which would dealing with hi a TSN sub network can be used for IP that knot or I or MPLS that not networks this is something where we need some further clarification discussion so we put there a question mark and regarding the TSR over definite MPLS document this is that needs some further improvement this is where we need some some more stuff to cover there okay I will stop here for a moment to collect feedback from the front of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "our group any feelings comments questions regarding that split let\u0027s have known I think breaking the documents that sounds like a promising approach do you have any comments on how we address zero congestion loss finite latency for the I know how we do that in the TSN arts but for the parts that are not over TS and how do we tie that into the document structure perhaps this is not the subject of this this document structured to provide that detail is these are the data plane documents or set of documents and the D bounded latency document I would see that one as as the one providing the this aspect of them nor the certainly the items three and four wood sorry three four five and six would need to talk about requirements on the underlying layers for providing that keep those queuing mechanism I see generally generally this group doesn\u0027t define queuing mechanisms but we do define how to use queuing mechanism or that an implementation is required to use a queuing mechanism to think back about how insurv has been defined how Biff sir has been defined the actual mechanisms within the node to achieve the service isn\u0027t defined or isn\u0027t required by the IETF just the behavior on the wire is required so I don\u0027t David my cock question where where were the Hitchhiker\u0027s Guide for the uninitiated be located so that someone can figure out which of these documents apply to what they\u0027re trying to build and how to put them together where does that apply for the for the IETF for the internet for any of our technologies this working group claims to be building a single overall technology there are almost some examples that I can cite that are at at smaller scope that mean for example we in transport wound up having to after the fact write a guide to Oliveira to all the various tcp specs I might suggest being proactive on this one before you encounter confused implementers would be a good move okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:22",
    "text": "and so a question is where to put that in our specifications that\u0027s the question I have as well that should we have a zero document giving these guidance like potato database I\u0027m going to document and and they\u0027re giving the lead to their different pieces because the idea behind the split as well as explained is to follow what we are doing in the ITF in MPLS and so on there my name is Michael sharp and I\u0027m the review of the architectural document so when I read the architecture document I actually noticed that you have quite a bunch of different architectural solutions and in the architecture document you mix all of them and that actually made the radio pretty difficult because they\u0027re all these different solutions so this to me somehow speaks in favor of separating the different ways how you can build that net in two separate documents so I think that it may be a good idea nonetheless please pay attention and the transport area will carefully look at implications of that so if you\u0027re proactive on that but in general this looks to me like a good idea based on what I\u0027ve seen in the architecture document in the literature document we have several scenarios and they are covering all of this that is exactly but for the things for example that we\u0027d had to discuss you have seen that I had to distinguish clearly between some things that for example apply in the mpls case other things that might not apply in the MPLS case and and some of these things are probably easier to sort out in such an splited architecture okay it will also show prior to answer David a question was so some of the clue that you\u0027ll want presumably will come from the framework component of the first two documents that will set up some of the structure and and some of the information that you need to as forward reference and second to the second part when we\u0027ve got these together and see whether any or more of it needs to come together to do the data find then is the time to write the summary document but not until we get a bit further along the way if it\u0027s a sort of cookbook book you\u0027re looking for the first thing is your ad I think it\u0027s really good that you\u0027re thinking about this now and because for some of the other technologies it creaked along right and then it came about as it was and this is very daunting when you first see it you know that you can think that well two documents is going to become seven but looking at it very carefully I think it does look much more clearer and separated that and always as you know think about your users and and how but they\u0027re what they\u0027re going to be looking for the only thing I would say is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:24",
    "text": "when I mean you the user won\u0027t maybe or they will see these titles there and that can I think maybe be daunting so I think just try maybe you can have the seven documents but try maybe carefully to think better the titles because right now it just looks like that you throw them together you know and putting debt net either before or after in the middle and it it can be very confusing if one would see this all on a list like this so I can just think of it more carefully on the titles and how you would do it yeah experiment say maybe deterministic and POS over yes I know and so I think it\u0027s very good you started thinking about it and just just because we don\u0027t want this to look like you through a bunch of blocks on the table and combine them you know it and put debt in it random places or something okay dandy malice yeah just is one of the people who\u0027ve been writing text and contributing to the existing to very very large documents you know reading through them is is is a chore and and I think that this will go a long way to to making the work more approachable for people who haven\u0027t been following with day in and day out as well on action so I have a question about this document Slayton is this meetings just based on the current to dead upland rapture or can although all maybe you can consider more a conversion to can consider other potential data plan for example yes rb6 based solution okay so this table is about based on splitting the current to document that was the first idea because that is where we have the structure and this is where everything that this result can be can be the result as shown on the slide we have our presentation on a service exam I suggest to come back to this discussion related to that presentation this is for future technologies then it\u0027s just yet another document as opposed to having to hold the base document until all the possibilities are there so I think it actually makes it much much cleaner to bring in newer technologies or other technologies so based on the current two data pain solution this seven we have identified but further documents may exist and can be created okay thank you okay so thank you very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:31",
    "text": "much for the feedbacks and maybe let\u0027s look to the details before changing in the data bank documents let\u0027s start with the IP solution document so we had here some technology clean up that sorry terminology clean up and there are new content in Chapter five on management and control consideration of course it is out of scope in this document to define the control airplane for the.net but these are from that net data plane discussions what implication what considerations should be done for the management and control this is just the starting list when we will later on discuss management and control plane this list can be extended so the content is about flow identification and aggregation explicit routes contention loss and gentle reduction bi-directional traffic and then in Chapter 5.5 we have summarized from the data plane definition the rivet control airplane requirements we have a new chapter chapter 7 it is described in the IP over that MPLS that I would say that these tags which was practically copy pasted from the MPLS solution document was the trigger for us to think about the new structure and what we have discussed in the previous some minutes had to have to have a better structure for these documents we helped update on chapter 8 chapter 8 is dealing with mapping IP flows to DSN and after all here the procedures were updated and also the management and control implications and this text is describing the scenario where that net node is treated from the TSN sub Network perspective as a TSN aware talker or listener regarding for their work in the IP document for the OEM which is chapter 4.4 we have no content currently but there is also discussion about OAM related stuff there is also individual draft so this is something but what would be good to cover in a separate document in which is dedicated to OEM and we have also some further work some clarification we did on on the TSN as a sub Network chapter so this is something but what should be improved or or should be changed in the in the content and of course the document structure as we have discussed we do not intend to make those changes in in the existing document but in the in the documents which we are resulting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:31",
    "text": "after the split and of course a general auditoria cleanup is also something what is needed for the document so these are all the changes regarding the IP document and let\u0027s look to the MPLS document what was updated there so there were again a terminology cleanup there were also many editorial changes so thanks for the native speakers review that improved the text pretty much so we have editorial changes in chapter 1 chapter 4 or 5 candidates for this restructuring so this is what is identified their we have changes in the chapter six and that is a important change in the document for the mpls data pain encapsulation the encapsulation regarding the death net encapsulation it includes both the s labor and f labor and that was a result of the discussion hard as Labor\u0027s should be allocated whether they should be allocated for a berth platform labor space like in case of soda wires or they can be allocated differently from that and it is implementation specific your decision how you are implementing the this and how you are allocating the rest Labor\u0027s so here in the figure with that red circle we have highlighted that was changed as a vision so the flavors were added also to the MPLS death not data plane encapsulation there is also a chapter on controller plane so management and control plane consideration it was filled up it content and in Chapter nine which is dealing huh that MPLS operate over a death net IP network here because of the F Labor\u0027s a part of the debt that encapsulation other UDP IP headers are also part of the data encapsulation similarly as it was shown on the previous slide we are quite happy with the MPLS data plane document content so most of this stuff is we think almost ready for forever loop Glasgow Glasgow so after making the document structure change this is something but both can go for for this value plus for okay just slide to summarize the next step so the proposal was to split the documents in multiple documents a finalized score called content and for four of the documents we are intending to to have an almost final version I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:34",
    "text": "going to value plus call so this is the current state any questions comments okay happiness let\u0027s jump to okay so these slides are showing the update and the debt that flow information model here we are now bit with version 3 there are only small editorial changes in the document and there are also some questions consideration where we we would like to have some value discussion and feedback so this is what you will see in these slides but but we where we need some further discussions but were explicitly the updates in the version 3 and what are the next steps just as a reminder regarding the service flow and configuration we have defined two documents in order to deal with that in this document we are dealing with the flow information model which describe the characteristics of data flows it includes in detail all relevant aspect of a flow that are needed to support the flow properly by the network between the source and the destination and we have heroes the service information model which describe the characteristics of the service being provided for a data flow over the network and it can be treated as a network operator independent information model so these two models are there in the intended to be there in the flow information model draft and the third model which is related to configuration data model this is where we have the young drafts and they describe in detail the settings required on network nodes to serve a data flow prepared just based on the latest architecture draft some reminder on the flow definitions so the app flow means the application data without the death net added headers and the death net flow is defined as the up flow plus the data encapsulation please note that the death encapsulation may simply reuse the airflow header information within the death net domain so like this is the case with the current that net IP data plane solution when we are speaking about that that flows we have some further terminology as well so when we are having protection application elimination inside the network then we had them that that compound flow and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "that that member flow and we have also defined in the data data plane aggregation when aggregation is done then it will result in a new aggregated death net flow this is similar to what we have in MPLS hierarchy so the target for the for the flow information model is to have a little bit better structure which is consistent with the architecture and the data plane raft updates so from attributes perspective we are quite stable so we have I think almost all the all of the attributes defined in the document which are needed in order to describe the flow information model and the service model however a little bit better structure grouping of this attribute this is what is needed to be done as an update in the document and in order to to make that change and find the correct structure for the definition of the attribute sets here we have highlighted the three major functionality points were but you need information in order to make the proper tablet functionality and processes so at the age node you have to identify the flow and create the dotnet flow at the at the at the age of the domain within the data domain you would like to share the dotnet flow according to the to its requirement and when to that not nodes are interconnected with using sub networks this is again a point where you need that that flow and service related attributes in order to make that mapping properly so when we are looking to a end to end service then we can define for set of informational groups one is describing the up flow then the F flow will have also some service requirements so what parameter should be provided when the connectivity is there for that flow the F flows are mapped at the Aged node to a dotnet flow and this method flow will be served with that that service attributes within the data domain so these are the four sets of attributes but can be identified and here in the bottom of the of the figure we have also highlighted which set of a pre-poo attributes are needed where inside the data domain in order to have correct death not data related processes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:36",
    "text": "so that is the intention to have this structure of the of the attributes which are already defined in the flow information model so up flow and service requirements they are limited to the H note related functionalities because this is what you need at the age of the dotnet domain inside the death net network you will have the data flow related parameters specifying the flow itself and the data service related parameters which are defined in order to provide the deadness service for the.net flow so that is the intention to have this structure replicated in the document and as I said we think that there are tributes are already there they are quite stable since the version 1 of the document and we think that maybe 99% they are they are ready so maybe some fine-tuning are needed or maybe we have a missing attribute somewhere so any feedback on on that attribute list are also welcomed so the update on the on the text itself there were some terminology cleanup and we have added a to-do list section at the beginning of the draft in order to highlight what changes are needed in the document in order to get in closer final worship that\u0027s it any questions comments okay so if you are happy with that that is something that should be reflected also in the young model later on I think okay thank you okay good morning everyone and I will introduce our work about the net configuration young model what we have done after the last ITF and was in the plan actually we have talked talked a lot about how complex the architecture document and the data plan document I have to say that the configuration model is also complex and it is really a tough work to make it simple and easy to use so please join us if you are interested in how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:37",
    "text": "configure that and that network and make it work you know real network and here is a brief history of this document in the first version it is version 0 it is accepted as a working group document after ITF Wow - and the first version the ITF then a topology is defined separately and in a second word in the newest version we the document is updated following the feedback from the working group we end the sequence number generation to satisfy the requirements of the OEM and we also end the Tanners service decapsulation transport analytics hack absolution and since there are some changes of the topology in the architecture document so the architecture of this document in the next version will be updated to actually uh really good to synchronize with bal√°zs and the other authors so the flow information there changing the structure and my bet is is the changes that they make are gonna need to be reflected in this documentary yes so work with them before even the document the next update comes out yes and perhaps our I know there is a design team and there is some call meeting for the data plan solution document perhaps we can have some similar working mood for the flow information model and Yamoto if it is necessary that\u0027s great the design team is over because documents so now we just have people who are contributing and yes so I talked to the authors and and set up it\u0027s perfectly reasonable to set up calls to get like high volume changes and of course the results come back to the list yeah yeah just contact them and work with them okay okay I think it\u0027s quite necessary and we can see the structure continue actually the attributes defined in this document we think it almost covered all the attributes that are needed for configure attend that network this is one side but on the other side how to organize this these ultra Buell\u0027s make it simple and easy to use is another topic so we want to in this presentation we want to list some options for how to organize this the ultra bills and this is an option one it is what it is look like in the current version of the draft we can see that the configuration of the attributes is organized based on the role of the tenant node that are defined in the architecture draft there is transient note for cueing and a filtering and rule a note for service protection and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:37",
    "text": "ingress note us note do some mapping between different and encapsulations and the young models have different data plan solutions are also supposed to be defined independently we will have I have done and yes young moto I have done I p.m. model and we we can see that there will be a lot of data plan drafts in the future as we have already discussed perhaps this will make it really complex to to do the configuration this way so we consider that maybe this structure is complex and difficult to do mapping between different encapsulation so we want to make it more flexible so we have another option all the attributes of different and nanos are defined in the same structure we divided into two groups in segments and all segments and all the functions for the ten that are divided in these two groups and if we configure some particular some specified node in the network which has to choose the necessary attributes from this structure and also we also want to define all the data encapsulation based on the same structure and which will make it easy to do mapping between different encapsulations but we we are afraid that this may be go to another extreme that we makes the structure too simple and it is difficult to use it because all the attributes from sub layer different sub layers they we put it together and maybe well we configure network it will make it very hard to understand which attributes should we use so we try to learn something what has been done in IETF this is the structure of ITF unchastity media model we noticed that there is a yin segment which is the incoming label actually and there is a out segment it is the outgoing label and there is an option for the label pub push or swap so maybe we can make the 10 that configuration similar to the MPs that young with some modification and the same structure is showed here there is a yin segment there\u0027s our salmon and there is operations for tenon node and the Yin Simon awesome only labels it can include different than that encapsulations including mps IP and maybe as rs6 in the future and we also define new operations rather than label operations swap a pop or push there will be operations for a service protection and the contrast protection maybe we have to change the terms to the resource reservation and these structure will support the functions for the net "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:37",
    "text": "and it also can suppose the flow aggregation made it simple to do the configuration so here the here are some options we list in the slides and we need some feedback from the working group which structure shall we choose for the next version and another legacy question whether attended queues is in or out of the scope of the networking group whether we should include some it is showed in gray in this picture queues algorithm configuration in the young model and more comments and contributions always welcome I have a question to you as one of the people who have gone through this analysis out of the option three options do you have a preference in the current stage I think this one may be more clear and easy to use what do you think yeah I do think a reorganization is very helpful yes I still think that we have more work to do to align with what\u0027s going on in the flow information as well as the the other the new terminology in the architecture I think the architecture clarifying what\u0027s now called the service and forwarding layers is very helpful and that\u0027s rippling down into the flow information and document and then I think they don\u0027t have to ripple down into here so I think the reorganization away from as you\u0027ve identified the the organization on a node basis really the is cumbersome and doesn\u0027t work very well so a reorganization away from that I think makes a lot of sense but I think you might want to look wait synchronize with the flow information and align with what\u0027s in the architecture and the flow information with the notion of this service and forwarding sub-layers once once you\u0027re there then you could start thinking about like what\u0027s going on in the data plane document that we have a core piece and then we have other pieces that sort of get bundled on top of that and maybe that turns into augmentations maybe that turns into pointers and to other things and when you start thinking about it also look that we have the a lot of work going on and T\u0027s which has which parallels this and we don\u0027t want to repeat all that work so the question is how to integrate with it we augment the t\u0027s models we figure out how to reference the t\u0027s models so I think that there\u0027s still two summary these are still early and there\u0027s I think a fair bit of synchronization that has to happen and that will help clarify which option we end up with I think moving to two and three there\u0027s definitely good steps whether it\u0027s two or three I think maybe it\u0027s a little early at least from from my perspective yes I agree and I think and the point is there should be more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:40",
    "text": "cooperation between these works between the configuration and the flow model and perhaps also the architecture and the data plan solution all these working group documents if we was what work together the second nation will be maybe we can figure out sometime I mean it\u0027s just Wednesday some time to to get the groups together very good my name is Sancho you in my opinion option three is better aligned with exist in Paris a young motor type engine I\u0027m supportive option three yes actually we have collected a lot of useful comments from Rancho I think it is really helpful you more people can get involved in dividing this young modal David black got up too quickly a plus one I think it was Lee\u0027s comment that both two and three are better structures than the node centric structural form okay thank you we are moving forward okay thank you so norm is online but not here in person and okay this is a samanathpur from Cicerone Institute of Technology pfl yes okay can you hear me okay with our latest update over about in Dayton\u0027s draft so a reminder for ya the new attendees the goal of this draft is to provide an upper bound we\u0027re entering latency and not just not the lower average delay calculation and also providing zero congestion laws we\u0027re providing enough for Versailles inside each no and we find it nice to prove these two requirements mathematically well there are major changes from draft two to three that in bangkok we\u0027ve decided to make its document informational and they have we made it in section 3 we added a new part to address the dynamic and Static flow creation as we discussed in bangkok there were some requirements to add dynamically or remove some flows from network we added section 6-4 to update "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:45",
    "text": "delay bound Galatians 4 per class queueing with asynchronous traffic shaping and that the fluid Mission Control is added in this section as well we simplified some parts for regarding deign serve to be easily followed by people who are reading and remove some too much mathematics from this section well in section 3 1 or 2 type of flow creation is discussed so the main thing is that we have two types of flow creation a static one where we have all the information regarding all the flows at the same time and bedewed admission control for all of them or none of them and so this has been addressed in in draft two but what is done in draft three is to address the dynamic flow creation means that if a flow is entering a network or leaving the network how do we manage it and we found it that there are some kind of requirements to be added in this draft so what we are going to discuss is this dynamic flow admission so in the pre class dynamic flow admission decision process what we have is there is a node when we define two types of capacity parameters the total rate that is allocated and the total burstiness and for each flow entering the network there are two parameters well the rate and the burstiness of this flow there are two counters within each node the accumulative rate and the cumulative burstiness there should be less than the capacity of the Baroness and the rate in this node so when we want to have a fluid emitted we should guarantee that in all the know that this flow is traversing these two equations hold well the rate that the flow ones plus the cumulative rate should be less than the capacity of this node and as well this should hold for the per semester if one of this equation in one of the know that this flow is traversing is not holding then we cannot accept this flow because we cannot guarantee its requirements well as soon as we accept this flow we should update this counters and this can be done by just easily adding this the rate of this flow and the person is the corresponding counters and as soon as the flow leaves we should subtract these two parameters from the [Music] accumulative rate and burstiness well are we able to calculate antenna latency bound for that well this is the so this is the model of the relay note inside "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:45",
    "text": "that net that we have the combination regulator and a queueing subsystem the parameters to calculate and the latency bound well we have it as the combination of the queueing subsystem and the regulator at the next node if thanks to the regulation for free property we are able to calculate per have delay bound where the parameters you can see in the formula are fixed and just we know the information that whole person s the delay and rate term of the queueing subsystem and the C is the transmission time so we are able to calculate delay bound over 1/2 and simply by just summing this her hub delay bounds we are able to compute an end-to-end delay bound for this specific flow well there are some updates of your planning to go through it and one is to improve this delay bound calculation that the thing that we are able to do that and from both the dynamic and Static flow creation or problems as well there are some work or if the cqf since this work is intentionally a targeting to formally prove delay bound you would like to have the formal delay calculation for cqf as well to just not give things shallowly related to the cqf delay analysis and as well what we want to address is to provide a buffer size calculation to guarantee zero congestion lost and that\u0027s it questions so at the last meeting we talked about that this would be aimed at being an informational document just to give context to help implementers figure out how they might build a debt net implementation and it would not be anything that was prescriptive and with that sort of framing in mind there was a lot of interest in the room in that and so we thought it made sense to head towards adoption as an informational document to go through the doctor go through the working group but we\u0027d like to confirm that that\u0027s still the sense of the folks here of course we\u0027ll do it on the list as well but we\u0027d like to get the sense of the room first and who thinks this is interesting work for us to be doing in this working group so that\u0027s that\u0027s a reasonable number how many people have read this document it\u0027s about the same I can\u0027t tell if it\u0027s more or less but it\u0027s about the same how many think that this is a reasonable starting point for a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:45",
    "text": "working group document on the topic maybe a little more than who raised their hand before which is perfectly okay but always entertaining how many think we should not adopt this document no one that\u0027s really good feedback thank you of course we\u0027ll take it to the list thank you thank you so now we\u0027re going to move on to there good morning everyone have Leon from China Mobile today I\u0027m going to talk about this is actually discussed in in Canada a little bit update on the requirements for a bounded latency for debt Annette so this is this is really a informational draft the reason I put it here to discuss this is in China Mobile when we talk about evolve our network to support PSN or debt net or PLC in industrial Internet we found that it\u0027s very important to understand how the layer three long long term or long scale a large-scale network to support a deterministic networking or to support bounded latency so this is really a outline of what we understand the problem we\u0027re going to face if we bring data net with Jason to a large-scale network so indebted net now as I understand the data plane take TSN technology as the forwarding technology to to basically enable the bounded latency but when you put the PSN network for example we have a use case of connecting to isolated yet yes an island then the actual connection between DTS and Island will introduce some troublesome for for maintaining the bounded latency so we have denote just as we discussed before that not specifies the technology that that that can work on its own and within ITF technology and TSM is a primary layer to subnet so it\u0027s not a must yeah understand yeah and yeah just to clear from this much it\u0027s not a mess but they say it\u0027s one use case I mean so we we have several schemes that proposed for bounded latency we can find the draft the the first two are busy Kissin "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:47",
    "text": "and then we have the I think I believe it with the next presentation and then we have the segment all team one these draft here is not to compare or analyze any of any of the scheme but just to pose some factors that we think is very important to consider if we are going to adopt any data plane pure layer 3 data playing solution or stand along then an implementation for large-scale network the problem we\u0027re going to face the first one is the use case of teaching Thyssen domains PSN are synchronized we knew transmit data between TS an island then the layer 3 will introduce the jitter on your latency and that basically needs to be taken care of using a a synchronized network to bring the synchronized PSN together that\u0027s number one number two is the propagation delay introduced by long link along connectivity because it will violate the T window that in TS n algorithms or TSM mechanism that is a requirement basically when you transmit a packet if the propagation delay between to TSM knows are larger than the T window on your cyclic scheduling then if they should break the law so that\u0027s something we need to face and in a long link scenario when using telnet as they as the forwarding thing the last one is about the perf low status when it comes to large-scale implementation you would expect the routers with the detonator where routers to be aggregate point where all the flows are I could get there so you expect to have a lot of status for the flow status so and and if we think about different use cases especially for VR AR or more advanced holographic punch then you expect those connections to be really random and you will expect there are frequent activation and then teardown so the status of the flow is going to be in a heavy load if you calculate the if your based on the status to calculate the latency start then and it is really computing and greedy stuff so when we are facing these massive dynamic flows then we probably need to consider a mechanism this is not solution draft but we need this is suppose the question we need to consider how we are going to deal with this massive dynamic flows so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:51",
    "text": "this is really a simple draft it\u0027s not very long and we feel that there are more requirements regarding large-scale deployment are going to come for different use cases so we\u0027re going to have more offline discussion with the authors of those implementation craft not implemented but the solution draft and we believe that maybe there\u0027s no one solution that can address all of these requirements but the combination of those or you know different choice of those may accomplish the these problems okay that\u0027s all from me thank you very much so the the the observations you\u0027re bringing from the operational perspective are hugely important and valuable and very appropriate to bring up in debt net the the description and as I read the document you\u0027re really raising issues with TSN technologies which are probably a hundred percent valid but we can\u0027t do anything about that here because that\u0027s a technology that\u0027s owned by the I Triple E yeah so bringing the issues to the I Triple E and trying to work them there will be great here all we can do is make sure that we have proper bounding on and constraints on what the what implementers do to in using underlying technologies so I think if you we could restate this document to four translate this document into requirements for scalability of debt net that would be very appropriate and helpful and move away from the issues with TSN I mean maybe use that as an example but the fact that that a particular kiss and cueing technology doesn\u0027t work for our standpoint it means we just won\u0027t use it but we don\u0027t have a solution yet I mean that that\u0027s I\u0027m not here to to to you know to bring any new work for TSN but it\u0027s a question for us to consider so we agree I\u0027m not sure we have to specify the cueing solutions in this working group right now that\u0027s sort of out of our scope so we talked about using different technologies so we could have let\u0027s say operate over an MPLS point-to-point link where there\u0027s some local queuing algorithms that a vendor figures out how that meets their the requirements of the debt service and and that would be fine okay so as long but as long as it meets the the real operational requirements so if you think there\u0027s some operational requirements from your your network network\u0027s experience or from your personal experience that\u0027s really useful to capture it would be helpful to this project saying it in the context of TSN just says well that doesn\u0027t help just means go to TSM so we have David and Q and then study met Nora is in Q after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:52",
    "text": "David David Park Lou I wonder if you\u0027re overstating the context of TSN I can read the criticisms in this talk in two ways one is TSN doesn\u0027t solve all the problems that could solve I Triple E could fix it the other way to read it is TSN was designed to solve some problems there are some interesting scenarios for debt net that fall outside of TSN and perhaps something ought to be done elsewhere outside of TSN to go to go address those and I\u0027d encourage consideration of both perspectives what I was saying is that first perspective doesn\u0027t belong in this room I wouldn\u0027t I would agree first respect doesn\u0027t belong in this room however I would also like to avoid implicitly excluding the second perspective and that\u0027s the other thing is this the second perspective probably doesn\u0027t belong in this room but it is perfectly reasonable to do in the IETF in other areas for example in your working group we can have a longer discussion about that now or in a couple of dress when you want to have it norm yang thank you for this for this draft I agree encourage you to present the requirements because that will be that will be useful in trying to improve the situation I think if you keep an eye on I Triple E at the next meeting you\u0027ll at the 802 dot one you\u0027ll find that the recent presentations that will point out that the cyclic methods that 802 that one has are actually more powerful than most of the people in ADA 2.1 realized and that scalability in particular will improve and I appreciate your your your comments on the requirements thank you now keep an eye on naturally progress as well thank you I wanted to come back to your synchronisation slide just for clarification again can you go back to the slide so so in that net we don\u0027t dive into synchronization details but say in the architecture for instance that and this is along the principles that we don\u0027t want to reinvent the wheel that that the idea is to use existing time synchronization of it versus equalization techniques as needed in certain deployments so for example in in this case it could be that the data domain interconnecting two TS and domains implements a time synchronization technique and the TSN domains implement their technique or it could be the same and that that not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:53",
    "text": "ethnic routers could be time aware relays so it\u0027s not not impossible to have time sync over lower end to end we just done dived into those details here yes just just one comments if it is a long link or large-scale implementation like what we are doing in TD LTE network backhaul network that the synchronization yes it\u0027s doable but you know it brings you a lot of work as well but it\u0027s yeah I agree with you but it\u0027s really bad because we know they\u0027re solution for and synchronized with bonded latency so that\u0027s basically why we triggered this here Amalia Mira I\u0027m Christina from Huawei I\u0027m going to present the large-scale deterministic Network draw let\u0027s look at the requirement for this work we have a requirement from than that both the Danna charter and architectural States then that need to provide bounce and delay we Aaron\u0027s we also noticed that the else neutralized the traffic shaping works we are in providing the account underlay however there is no guarantee on lower among the delay that means the jitter is equal to the propagation delay we are regions another requirement is the net should work over faster translate translate a linker speech network like the common off-site building in campus network normally the link speed will be more than 100 a little bit per second so the Dannette need a furling accused option that is available at that speed we also has other requirement included the easy calculate delay or jitter and the data of mechanism not subject to link jitter but following a site mapping the course of this work is to be a information that network into a per document and introduced requirement and framework which is independent of specific for what inference solutions generic applicable to the next scenario use justification and reference for normative working as the working group we will figure it out later but for example the choose model in TS v "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:54",
    "text": "WG o dirt not under the forwarding Frank encoding like the ipv4 ipv6 TCP or UDP extension in TS vwg all the IP basics extension header in 6 month and sr encoding in spray MPI a specific encoding in NPR\u0027s working group this is a classic scenario and dad not we use a dad net demand to connect the two TSN isin and together as the P note then I shall provide the queueing management like shaping or scheduling to provide a congestion can chew so our work is a similar scale about curing solution in the scenario we noticed that there is a kind of solution called cyclic affording have proved work what could work well in TSN that can provide a bug leader latency and jitter it\u0027s a kind of synchronized forwarding scheme with Auto flow curing State on every Hall a synchronized a low synchronous packet for what across all health wheezing a single sink a high star seeker but this kind of mechanism has some challenges the first one is the nanosecond time synchronization requirement among all of note the second one is limited physical size due to the link do to the psyche time the larger the network the smaller the percentage of traffic can be synchronized due to the long link propagation delay in order to overcome this Challenger we propose the largest feel natural cyclic affording the basic idea is Kari psyche identify in packet this is a kind of non synchronized the forwarding of a cycle and saying after all packet of foresight arrived so what we have achieved is we still keep the key benefit of traditional cyclic forwarding it\u0027s easy to calculate the end-to-end delay and jitter have time counter and delay and jitter but we only a limited physical sky limitation has put arbitrary link propagation delay we also eliminate for the time time synchronization we only require frequency synchronization in gold to control drift between two adjacency no psycho time and the we see the frequency synchronization is much easier than the high occurrence time synchronization we have made some change to the rafters in the last ITF meeting the first one is we ate a new figure to illustrate that the common IP and mpls for warden price priority queue couldn t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:56",
    "text": "grantee the bundle latency and jitter due to micro burst and the micro burst iteration if we have new country on package behavior then the worst case will be package arrived at the single point cemetery then the package wait in the queue and produce microburst microburst iteration after several Hoff\u0027s then there\u0027s no way to guarantee bounded latency and jitter and more we also refine the petitioner way to carry many motivates like identify firstly we removed each type of a net hitter from the list and we also add some new approach such as the UDP option the seed of SR v6 the flag field of SRH the two bits in ipv6 destination address and so on we also add some description for two models that implement is a pro coaster cyclic affording massive the RF model and model in swept model or packet carry like identify and at each hop the cycle identify where base wrapped until a new one according to the psycho mapping Tarot instead model a packet we all carry a stack of psycho identifies one for each hop like the SR basics thus each home map based on the next type identifier okay in summary we want to make sure the requirement and solution we are on still stir draft and verify that the networking group agrees on requirement of being valuable and to ask for working group adoption before next ITF meeting we will do another motion resulting from the feedback we received and we saying this is not the only cheese model useful for dotnet but this model is very important Picasa is the least cupcake is pro-hop juice model that\u0027s all thank you so I\u0027m a little unclear on the document when reading it I see that it\u0027s informational mm-hmm then it goes into a lot of queueing details and saying that there\u0027s issues with TSM are you are you looking to comment provide comments on the TSN queuing mechanism are you looking to define a new queuing mechanism were you going with the document this document adjuster provide our basic generic a frame worker to deployed queues mechanism only a string at work and the specific encapsulation a cell reference to do the specific info encapsulation as a working group to do "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:58",
    "text": "the encapsulation yes we need to carry two bits I identified to support that cheers grantee so where\u0027s that queuing mechanism defined the queues mechanism is the internal implementation inside a network it\u0027s not the important thing why we explained securing mechanically it because we need to give you a reason why we need the two bit psychic I think about yeah I think that gets into that definition of the queuing and right now defining queuing mechanisms in the IETF really happens in the in the transport area right so I think if you if you want to come back okay if you want if you want to define support for a queuing mechanism I think it has to be a standard queuing mechanism and so I think we have to run this through the TSV area first and have them give us the answer for the queuing mechanism and then weather what if there are requirements for signaling okay so what we tell us Eckert as a co-author what we try to describe in the document in their slides is the scheme on how to break the deadlock between you know what working group is doing what in response to which other working groups right so we wouldn\u0027t want to define a queuing mechanism I think what we want to define in TS vwg is the proper behavior which is the externally visible result of the queueing behavior so because we kind of typically have the approach in the IDF to try to avoid defining internal behavior so that\u0027s also been said in the slide in the deck the PHP in t-80s vwg but you know our best understanding was that TS vwg to basically accept such work it needs some other working group to show the interest in this and which is exactly what this document is meant to express by being an informational dead networking group document right it\u0027s basically a document expressing the interest of debt net in you know having other working groups creating standardized aspects of that solution yeah I agree with what Allah is saying that this sets up the this document sets up the problem and gives the context of that net then we need to get some work from the transport area to validate the hot behavior and then we need to go to other groups in order to specify the marking in the package itself so there\u0027s three pieces of work will be gonna start somewhere and this seems to be the best place to start I completely understand how the previous document sets up the requirement so I really understand how the previous document sets a requirement I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t understand how going to this level of detail is setting up the requirement it seems to be setting up a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:58",
    "text": "solution then it\u0027s not from I don\u0027t think it\u0027s I think the right place to define the solution for the queuing mechanism to meet the the requirement isn\u0027t is in TSV working group this this seems to be setting I mean this is seems like a nice intro to a solution proposal that you could be bringing into the place to standardize that killing mechanism David black wearing entirely too many hats transfer advisor debt working group tees DWG working group chair and one of the original architects of architects diffserv which we seem to be talking about here we\u0027re seeing could you go back to the slide on microbursts because I think that okay I think what we have on this slide you\u0027ll notice there isn\u0027t a there isn\u0027t the word queue anywhere in this slide nonetheless what I see here is a behavioral spec that could probably the foundation for a pH B that basically starts from actually rights I see your acute memory but what it basically starts from is that we have a time sequenced stream and we want to ensure that it doesn\u0027t pile up and turn and turn into uneven microbursts I believe that can be done by referencing some sort of notion of time interval without the nuts and bolts of exactly how the queues work inside and that kind of careful teasing a part of things can get us to Aitken can get us to a page B spec that doesn\u0027t tell the people doing silicon how to build the queues I think what you\u0027re saying makes a lot of sense although I would call it an in serve flowspec not a PHP because this is on a per flow basis we have to have a long we have to a longer discussion about that one because I think I\u0027ve heard from the authors in other places that they\u0027re that they\u0027re there their interest more interested in the diffserv framework nonetheless I and I understand the unguents or comment the crucial point I want to make is that I believe that that this chart provides the basis for the be the on the wire absorb behavioral spec that gets you away from explaining exactly how the queues work in the silicon that would that would be fine and then we would remove all the queuing behavior discussion from from this document and then we could have something that would be useful here we start getting into the queueing behaviors I think that\u0027s the place where we we passed when we should be talking about a debt mumble mumble you can certainly put the queueing behavior in as an example to prove that this isn\u0027t idle hand-waving of something that\u0027s unimplemented you just have to make sure that it goes in with the words example in all the right places yeah I didn\u0027t see that we did in serve or diffserv and so it makes me really uncomfortable understood this one\u0027s this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "this one\u0027s a little novel it doesn\u0027t hurt my in in my mind to have it to have the details of how of of how you how you could make it how you could make it work but no point noted I told a second appendix might be a compromised position so it may be two points the first point if we still haven\u0027t gotten the point over we still need to improve the text or the slides right so they they when you\u0027re saying in surfing is per flow it\u0027s exactly the point of not having per flow state in the midpoint P notes right so only state really for the class that is basically not having to scale up with more and more flows right so it was at least what we\u0027ve called as we\u0027ve heard in the flow information that\u0027s or maybe it was your honor that\u0027s an aggregate flow so the fact that you have one one what looks like in the large-scale network is one flow and it\u0027s supporting you know a thousand or a million other flows that\u0027s an aggregate in in our our keynote no because you\u0027ll never have a situation that basically more user traffic creates more of these flows even an aggregated flows you will always have you know the notion of a flow is something that has a relationship to you know basically application levels so I think I think that\u0027s the place to focus is the discussion of how you are proposing to change our architecture that to move to have a solution that is not an aggregate flow to deal with scaling right now with all we have in our architecture for handling scaling is aggregation of flows yes understood yes exactly so if you want to move away from that that\u0027s really the point of this draft that should be the focus at the draft throw out all the queuing pieces talk about the architectural implement implications and then we can talk about the how to implement it the queuing pieces are really down in the in the guts and outside the scope here but the the point that you\u0027ve just made if it\u0027s if that\u0027s really the main focus or I thought I heard you say is mind focus that could be wrong but I thought I heard you say the main focus is is to get away from this the aggregate model that\u0027s very new and that\u0027s cool that\u0027s great to bring that in but let\u0027s make that the focus the discussion by the way the the whole IETF mindset of trying to completely eliminate discussing anything internal to the router I can I invite you to 3:00 p.m. on the router architecture a discussion where basically that\u0027s exactly a big bitching point I don\u0027t know if for example any of the TSN specifications would have been able to be implemented correctly if you know TSA you know if I Triple E would have taken the same stance it\u0027s fine Ono understood it but I\u0027m just saying that yes no no we\u0027re not sitting on their toast the only thing that we\u0027re saying is that the or fine with kind of any structural stuff in documents in terms "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:04",
    "text": "of making appendix or something like that but without having any idea of how somebody else could have implemented it right it\u0027s very hard to bring a lot of the QoS technologies I think even the people who wrote the PHP always had basic in the back of their mind and in as much documentation as they could find examples right so and I think that\u0027s all it is a days of insurv I was there building solutions and queuing mechanisms but the IETF chose not to go down the path of standardizing them I certainly agree with you the implementers always have an idea of how you\u0027re gonna implement it it\u0027s just a matter of what we standardize and and where and in what forum but the the notion of doing a different form of aggregation isn\u0027t as an important idea and it\u0027s to me that that\u0027s where really where we should be talking in the comment in this document okay this is a song I\u0027m at Bowie from epfl can can I have the slide for the delay calculation it is two times the parameter T right yes right so I just wondered that this parameter T is the same at every node just same as the same density they are the same at every node right yeah so I\u0027m just wondering isn\u0027t it hard to have a lot of nodes inside is that net network that have the same T maybe one node requires to have bigger T because of a lot of ingress ports or the flow is entering this node yes the same density is actually operating easier to be achieved compared with the occurrence time synchronization required by other TS and technologies yes so in TS n it makes sense because you don\u0027t have a lot of notes and you can make them synchronized on the same T but if you have large-scale network I find it hard to have the same T and if it is not the same teat and there is another issue how can you guarantee that from one ingress port there is there is just one packet from one cycle maybe there is more maybe not just two because I notice in your document that you assume that maximum two packets are coming from the previous node while if the parameter T is different and then for sure it\u0027s more than that right yeah and so how is it going to be addressed in the large scale that yes I think a synchronized shaping cavities of this kind of program but the ATS has another challenge as it couldn\u0027t provide is upon you the traitor yeah I\u0027m not talking about eight years I\u0027m talking about this approach of LDN right maybe there are some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:07",
    "text": "challenges in 80\u0027s but what I\u0027m concerned is the Tilly calculation provided in this document is not accurate I mean there might be some challenges that I would prefer to have the results first in some papers and can be proven somehow and the results reported in a draft rather have the mathematical proof inside the draft maybe it\u0027s more interesting to have the results so I think this is a great conversation to have offline and also well great conversation to have offline given the time constraints I do think good to spend a few more minutes with Stuart and David see if we can get to some resolution of where we go next I will point out that we\u0027re over time on this slot which means we\u0027re eating into the next box but given that we\u0027ve talked about this a few times it seems like it\u0027s the right use of the meeting time so if you could take that that topic the details offline and that would be great okay thank you so three things first off I I don\u0027t think are you listening though first look I think it\u0027s grossly misleading to suggest that we\u0027re treading on the I Triple E toes we as you suggested earlier this is not the intent here the intent here is to solve this entirely at the packet layer which is not the way that so we don\u0027t get anywhere near what they\u0027re doing we want an independent solution secondly the you know the scope and range of we\u0027re trying to address is larger than I Triple E are addressing thirdly I think that one of the things that\u0027s missing here is that we probably need to put a catalog document together that describes the set of queuing mechanism eken isms so that people know which one to pick what its advantages and disadvantages are for different applications but finally I think that this is a perfectly valid piece of work in its own right we do need to find a home for it yeah and and good new queueing behaviors certainly are in the scope of the IETF and I think a fine thing for us to be working on particularly if they support that net to saying that that part doesn\u0027t belong in this group we want to use what\u0027s done in the other parts of the ITF not what we need to do things in other parts of the IETF right you know and so you know an approach here is to incubate the document here and then figure out with the Aedes where it should go rather than the other way around so the thing that I\u0027ve taken away from this is that the main point of the document is is to introduce a new form of scaling mechanism into our architecture and I really like us to focus on that and nail that out and if that means a separate document that\u0027s fine too so you can have a mechanism document and then one that covers those architectural "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:08",
    "text": "implications is that architectural implication is a huge one it\u0027s come up a few times before and it\u0027s important to capture that and decide as a group of if that is something we want to include as a part of a debt net solution or exclude right now to be clear it\u0027s excluded if you want to include it we need to bring that in and and agree to that there right now the only way we have for scaling is the aggregate flows and I thought I heard again I might have misunderstood so you know I\u0027m happy to be corrected either in session or out of session but if that really is the case where it\u0027s a it\u0027s something different than what we have defined for aggregate flows that\u0027s really important I believe it is I believe that that\u0027s the int and and that\u0027s a necessity to get to the next level of scaling so we really should make sure to have a to focus on that part in the discussions and bring that in and then we can engage consensus on it we\u0027re jumping way down into queueing mechanisms without even under the green that this is something we want to work on that\u0027s that\u0027s an important piece okay Lou I think you hit the nail on the head and that lot very last comment which is now wearing a TS cwg hat TS v WG is quite happy to do work for other work moves we\u0027ve done so many times I remember the amazing adventure I went through to get us off the critical path of what path of web RTC so we wouldn\u0027t be responsible cluster 238 so I mean we\u0027re we have lot lots of track record doing this however there needs to be a cooperative relationship with the work who is going to use the work and hence decision needs to be made here that this work is interesting and high-level scope and scoping requirements yeah we can work out details of exactly what the what the forwarding behavior through the node needs needs to be to solve the problem but the problem is going to be defined here right and I think the previous document seems to be defining the problem this this document seems to be more about the solution but with the addition of this new concept of handling scaling without using our creation flow aggregation and again - I think we\u0027ve made it clear to me that\u0027s something that we don\u0027t have and I say to me so because I want to give an opportunities for other people who stand up and say I\u0027m wrong and that we really do have it so in in what you\u0027ve been saying I hadn\u0027t heard the word requirements so because last time around at 103 when we\u0027re discussing the feedback was more we we need to describe the requirement so is it fair to say that the the document itself should also relate to you know how well how as we try to do in the first slide right so how we think there are requirements to solve this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:10",
    "text": "this this this problem if you focus on requirements it seems that you\u0027re doing the same thing is the previous document you know I think we should have requirements in one place sorry the previous documents about requirements the previous documents is titled as requirements for large-scale right right [Music] okay but would it be fair to say that from what I heard from David is that we definitely want to have a requirements document however we split it up whether we merge into one document or documents which are useful I think I said that okay if I didn\u0027t you know I definitely useful we have Norman q yeah my point the bounded latency duck giraffe does point out that some specific queuing mechanisms among them at least one of the I Triple E mechanisms does not require any participant does not require any state and any node along the way and so does allow dynamic rapid additions and deletions of of traffic so I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a wholly new thing to say we have to desire scaling that\u0027s not related to flow aggregation it\u0027s not it\u0027s not clear that\u0027s a completely nin concept I\u0027m not arguing for against anything in the draft which is pointing that out David mark again I think I see two notions of scaling that ought to be carefully distinguished one is scaling in terms of flows however aggregated and the other which came up much more strongly in a previous draft is scaling in terms of network scope I think we have quite a bit of aggregation semantics so until the until we have a good articulation of what the the new mechanism is and what the failings and the current ones are I think it\u0027s a little hard to figure out where the gaps are right and and when I look at this stuff before the meeting my sense was that the the extent there was a functional gap somewhere that this room group ought to be looking at it was it was in network scope things like the can can you extend the time synchronization to art to arbitrarily large networks going back to the earlier the cause of administrative domain are you going to get uniform tight times and ization across administrative domains what happens to high jitter links that kind of thing yeah and those are places where we definitely want to have solutions so we can place those translate those requirements down to the TSV working group and have that group work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:12",
    "text": "on solutions so we have run out of time which means we are skipping the strategy we\u0027re skipping two slots that were individual document zero zero individual documents we do encourage you to take a look at them one of them was on SR and we did want to talk about that and in particular mention that we chairs need to work with our ad and C talk to the SR and also the SR chairs the spring chairs to see where that work might make most sense or that discussion should take place so with that we are out of time we thank you all for contributing and participating and we definitely apologize to those last two presenters and encourage you to go look at that material and with and discussing the list and if someone wouldn\u0027t mind handing up loose sheets that would be awesome and we will see you in Montreal thank you so much [Music] "
  }
]