[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:11",
    "text": "All right, we'll give it one more minute, then we'll start Niels, do you mind taking some notes? I know that there's going to be much to note, but do you mind doing it? Yes, absolutely. That'll be open that note taking I would ask people, but we're now up to three people in the room All right, let's get started. That's the IETS IETF Wish Working Group. Thank you for coming Meals I'm sean turner, one of the co-chairs, Niels I'm Niels, the other co-chair the lazy one. We're remote. We're doing good. Just to note well This is, you know, it's late Tuesday evening, so hopefully you've seen these before You know, all the rules and things that you need to follow BCPs for various things related to IPR etc. Code of conduct and copyright, if you have any questions, you can ask us, or your friendly AD or the Abuts team. This next one is about keeping a professional you know, try to cheat everybody professionally. You can, you know, not like the idea, but you still kind of got to like the person a little bit because we don't want you yelling at it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "everybody. Meeting tips if you're on site, make sure you scan the I don't know if the QR code's out here, you could use the agenda thing to log in, because that's how we make sure that we get to write size room. I think we would fit in any room that they would offer. So I don't know if we really care, but it's nice to have a list. And that's nice to have a list of people that attended. Also, we're going to use this to moderate the queue So if you want to get up and say anything, it's best that you get on the page. So you click it with your finger All right, agenda is pretty clear. We're going to do some administrativeity, which is this. My friendly co-chair has agreed to scribe, so we're good And basically, we're just going to go through the two drafts and one proposal for one of the drafts, and then we're going to be done So we got we got whip uh which will just be kind of a status update And then we got a lot more time on WEP but i looked at the slides and i don't know we'll need 40 minutes And then we got a reconnect event proposal from DevP update. And then we got a lot more time on web, but I looked at the slides and I don't know we'll need 40 minutes. And then we got a reconnect event proposal from Dapang Liu. And it's a PR that's up there So hopefully people have read it and had a chance Any suggestions to bash the agenda? I'm not hearing any, so let me go start to do the whip All right, Sergio, you're up Just tell me next, I'll drive the slides. Hey, hello Yeah, so next Please. All right next You. Come on. Go to the next Oh, sorry. Yeah, so, yeah. There we go, sorry well I will first like to apologize for the last meeting because I mess with the time zone and I thought I'm not sure how I thought it was in my afternoon, so I would completely asleep when you tried to reach me out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "So sorry for that that Yeah, so. It's all right. It happens. It happens to the best of us It happened to me Okay, so the change is from the latest whip, let us say, said, that it is the 15 compared to the 14 was mailing to the address, the IESG and IANA feedback I think that I think that added changes for all the discussed that has been raised in the review. I think that the only one that this is still pending to be confirmed is the SCD review because it was one of the that has more things to change. So we have added quite a lot of changes there, so we yeah so Francis, thank you for joining and it will be wait if you can confirm if we have five best to discuss, so we still need to do homework to do in order to fully address them The main changes that we have made between the 50 and the 14 draft has been to align the whip protocol to the best practice for building protocols over HDP and a part of clearing out some usage about HTTP code response usage, we have added the problem statement body to be able to conceal more explanation of errors that has been based by by the by the by the or WIP resource when receiving there was so we can put more information there and not rely on fully on the on the status code and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "Thank you R suits associated with DC56 might be missing a number. Yeah yeah, yeah, yeah, probably a copy page, a bad copy page, yeah shiro missing, I don't know like that. Yeah anyway so next slide please Yeah, it's 9205. Yeah Yeah All right, next slide Yep. Okay, sorry. So this would be fast. So I think that we need to first, the next step, if all the costs are clear and address if there are still anything that we need to be to be addressed I hope that not but I mean I think that probably the clear and address if there are still anything that we need to be addressed. I hope that not, but I mean, I think that they probably, I mean, I'm I hope that not but I mean I think that they probably they I mean as Francis has some some minor needs but I hope to be able to address them when I get back from PTO so we can have it a new draft probably early set early September now we can continue the EAC I don't know sadly what is the process for So what I do is I got Paul to clear here dIESGust because he wanted to discuss the ion of things and so he was happy with the answer. Francesca says that she going to either get Daryl to do his review by the end of the week or she'll do it which is great. And so then if we make any changes, that'll be great Zaid said he'd do his review by tomorrow I think his, because yours was, that was the stuff about, congestion control that got added. And I think, he already kind of approved the text. So technically we could be like all green by, you know, Monday would be really great. And then all if the are some like minor little changes that like editorial things that need to get fixed, I would like to propose that we we can do them later in the process you can do them in all 40 if they're not that big of a deal. We can have the 80"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "can make the decision on that. And so what we can do is, you can hit our approval. And then if we had some like minor change you can just add those in there and that we can deal with them Francesca just want to mention i'm not even responsibility for this even though i'm now the idea for the working group but I think I said it's a small knit, but I think it still needs a new version this this could because it's like a BCP could, but there is no BCP 14 code defined oh it's capitalized okay yeah yeah there is no BCP 14 could defined. Oh, it's capitalized? Okay. Yeah, so better to fix it, like it doesn't take much effort to just, you know, post a new version for that So that will be my recommendation. All right So we can do that. Depends on how fast you want to done but uh yeah we can we can do that either through the now announcement or you can spend a new version. But I think that there were substantial changes as a result of the HP DIR review So I don't think those are going to be quite as easy to i think it will take more time but we'll see maybe i'm wrong so Anyway, also after after everything is green, then I basically tell Murray like, hey, push this document, and out it goes So then it goes to the RFC editor's queue and we wait for it to pop out So it's like a month after it goes into the RFC editor's queue before you start going through all the, like they, do the copy editing checks and the references and all that kind of stuff Just one thing. I will be well, in fact, I am already on PTO and I will not be back until the 19th of august so i will not be able to make any change to the document. I mean, if there are small needs, it would be ready to it and approve it that's all i'll be able to sort totally fine that we wait as well I just I'll just tell Murray to put it on the backburners okay all right so i've moved on to the web slides yeah so next slide this, yes?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "So as I couldn't present the draft in last meeting, I mean, there was, there has been two persons since we have spoken and the main one was the changes from the one version to the zero version that included all the backporting all the changes that we made for the whip 14 changes to address that we agree on the working with last call this does then this version does not include the changes that we have done from the 14 to the 15 version in week that we will have to back for to to web because I mean they are very similar so I assume that we will receive the same feedback we we post that way so this is something that we still need to do and the and the to Web 01, it has been only resubmitted draft in order to have the spirit in time clear and we can so it is not a space so this is a regarding the changes from the latest web version. So let's slide please So this is one proposal that I have for for a new event that have been having some requests here in in Milicast for this kind of functionality that it is added in SCATI-35 events that it is the metadata that it is using in normal in Pemper that it is adding SCATI-certified events, that it is the metadata that it is using in normal in in in PEG and HLS players to signal a client side at insertion So the good thing about this cat is certified messages is that they have already defined or they have a, if there is already defined a basic 64 civilization for it and it is what it is for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "example, included in the HLS manifest So the proposal would be simple, it is just to add a new SCATified event in the to be ported in for support this a separate insertion that will be signaling now any other web event and the the body of the event will be just the basis for a SCAT certified message that it's good and nice that we can add it into just it fits perfectly in what we are using the server site events I don't think that there is not much we need to add to the web because everything is specified in the SCATI certified specification and the the web client does not need anything to handle that specific just pass this information to the ad layer in that as it will do in the HLS or does so if everyone is a or if there is no objection, I will add it to the next version of the web spec One wants Anyone in the queue? From my perspective, I think I would be interested in I think the Peng is also suggesting like an extension, whether we, what I would be interested to hear if anyone has thoughts on adding these features into the main web spec, or if the working group should try to ship them as extensions separate. I don't know if anyone has thoughts on that i mean this could this could perfectly go into an extension so but it will be really yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "I don't think that it will be more than a paragraph, so I think that I mean, it could, yeah for my perspective is mostly procedural whether we like I mean if everybody agrees of this then it's probably easy to add it to the to the main spec as well um if we get like extensions which cause then lots of discussion and basically hold back the main spec maybe that should be the guiding criteria here yeah but I have something like that in the next steps a feature that we have to discuss and oh this is the next one so I'm moving on all right yeah so the next topic I would like to discuss in this in this meeting is that I have seen a lot of interest for a hybrid with RTC and MPEC specifically playback so being able to combine both WebRTC and IPRTC and in the same player the main reason for this is that typically you will be able to get real-time playback through web. So you can have a real-time fit going into a player, but you could switch to the MPECdus version So you can, for example, start watching an event from the beginning or do the rewind and watch, for somebody watching that you are watching a football game you can go back and see a goal and they go back to life Also, we have seen some some some some users of Milikas that would like to have like different experience for premium users when they offer real time and all the while having most of the people in the MPEGAS streams"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "so this will allow them to combine both videos into the same player Regarding the integration of WebArtsy into MPEC, there has been already some words done specific in the Dasif working group That was they published this report about it I think that it was two years ago, something like that But there was not a clear proposal or specification that it was just a prospectional and putting a possible solution so but it has never become a spec or anything like that and also there was not a web specification available at that time So there are several components not only miligas that has been working on it and it seems to be like a consensus that they probably the ECC is to put the web playback viewer into them to them pay that money manifest so you can just get the when you just get the manifest as normal and then you can have the web URL there and then use either the start downloading the impact assessment or start plugging the web manifest as normal, and then you can have the web URL then, and then use either the start downloading the impact assessment or start plugging the WebRTC via web. So I know seriously how this work in the IETF, but in other things legislation forums with what we have typically, and in the case it is try to write a license statement tool the DASIF group to see we can have any way of collaborating together to have like a copy discussions and and probably as that impact dasis I know if we could do the spec or they will have to do it or however or or it got me on so I think that Yeah, sorry, go ahead. Yeah, no, and for example, in the DASIF group, there was a lack of a Syrian of WebArtsi knowledge, so they were wondering how things were, so I was there, but no"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "fully working on that group, so I provide some guidance. And I think that we at least say, I don't have enough knowledge of PECDAS to do it in in this group so I think that it would be good if we could have some kind of joint collaboration in order to try to find what would be the best way, the best technical way of implementing it So we can definitely figure out how to get some liaison statement over. I've done that in the past. It's basically we just got to get our area direct of the IESG to send it over there. There's not an existing liaison relationship, but maybe we don't need one So I can definitely, I can definitely cue Marie up on that It doesn't exist as well, right? It cut but maybe we don't need one. So we can definitely, I can definitely cue Marie up on that. It's not. Sorry, could you get to the microphone? Yeah microphone? I think as of today, dash I have merged with SVTA Correct. Or SVTA, um absorbed dash-is I think that's that's a fairer characterization okay well I mean I think we can we can find the people, I think, and figure out who to point to. That would be, that would, that would probably be a good way to do that But yeah, we can figure that out Yeah, I mean, when we have like the procedure and we agree that it's something that we can do, I can also think internally because we are participating in those forums to see if we can find the right people to send this two agree that something that we can do I can also pick internally because we are participating in those forums to see if we can find the and the right people to send these these two yeah Thank you for going to the microphone, Jonathan Caught yourself John, I'm not excited. I mean, having my knowledge of this being what I just Googled with my phone in the last three minutes, I'm not sure, I mean, the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "standard actually comes out of MPEG, right? And then that IF is the like, profiles it in the industry forum So I don't know which one, I mean Stefan will be the one to explain this So the dash standard comes out of MPAC The way how dash I have and dash work together is, okay, this is my characterization here, yeah so nothing official. And I'm not a member over in dashiF anymore and so on but what dash i have does is to some extent they do the requirements, the real world requirements work because MPA requirements process is not really set up to do anything particularly useful in this field So the people who really know what's needed in the universe are in dashiF. And then they do things like interrupt and application things there is a little bit of the profiling aspect too these are not the official profiles but yes there's a bit of a profiling aspects as well. Dash too these are not the official profiles but yes there's a bit of profiling aspects as well the dash the dash standard itself is a toolbox right so you have to pick and choose Yeah, so my question is we wanted to say have a, you know, add to that this is how you put a web URL in. Would that need to go to MPA? for the toolbox and then go to Dashif or could that's something that DashiF? could put in on its own? Thank you. Thank you clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "to be the real deep expert here, but if I understand that dash itself can, I mean the dash spec as it exists can already do what you need. Isn't that true? It's just that it's not deployed Would that be? fair? No, I don't think that it is possible to deal right now, or I don't know how to do it. Maybe there are already some ways of putting this information, but I know that I'm spending back that, so I just know the very basic so I know so I'm not sure sadly if there could be something easy to, in order to add this to the turn but as much benefit, but as far as I know, there is no way of of a of implement today yeah in that case a dash itself will have to get active but the best way to trigger them to do a activity is usually to go to DashIS and convince the people there Just showing up in EMPAC with a proposal will probably not work that easily Well, that's, but anyway. After you mentioned SBTA, and I googled, I now have the chair's name We all know. I mean, anyone who is active in this field should have multiple contacts there. Yeah, okay, great. That's exactly what I was going to do here. OK. Yeah I would for sure be able to have contact in this group this group. To being in the water have contact in this in this group. We have to, to begin with what is to do. But I would like to hear to have agreement from this group and that it is something that we want to do away and pursue Agreed, right. I mean, the idea is you don't want to start trying to go down this path of a bunch of people are like no, this is not the way to do it. So I guess my hope is that we can, if you could start a discussion on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "the mailing list, to try to see if we can get some people behind it. And if that, if it turns out that that's the way, then we can launch forward and figure it from just my my personal opinion is that this is a highly desired feature by lots of people. So I'm pretty sure if we point the right people at this proposal they will be like, oh yeah, yes, please but I'm a little bit more concerned about the whether to find the right experts to which know both groups, basically and can get the work going and finish. So I think that goes back to what you were saying earlier Sergio, like, probably in a separate extension spec because I don't know how long this will take No, I mean, probably this would be just going to the impact that we will not have to do anything here because it's not it will be easy I mean it's the other way run, right? They will have to add it to the to the impact that specification about probably a new element in the index mail file or whatever or so. True, yeah only if we need work from our end then that should be done probably in an extension okay yep fair enough all right cool i will go to the last slide Yes, so please, yeah so there's step is if we agree to the into this next step will be to be to, even that we, there is a presentation to discuss about this proposal proposal It tells from the G GESOMPEFINILEEN event. Not very well event. Some not very well. And I think that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:02",
    "text": "a given well I think really a think there is there is one is isn't there a slide before this? No, this is the last slide I mean, the slides for the reconnect events. Yes, that's next no no no i mean this is the last slide for yeah Yeah, okay So, I probably have deleted one, I mean, that the fuck, well yeah okay so um think that there were other topics that we have discussed that it would be nice to add in the to the web specification, but we have not got much feedback or interest in that I was talking from memory, but it was like multiple languages support a metadata and things like that So there has been little work word or feedback regarding those items, so I would propose as Neil was saying, that we remove them from the target list that we wanted to address, and if there is enough interest, we can add them back as extension to the document and try to get this get these things finished and try to go to working group last goal before the next IETF meetings so we can get feedback on the draft because I have seen that if we don't go to working group last call people probably don't will be rising any so I think that the sooner we close those topics will be able to have people providing the feedback needed to add to progress it to the next phase and as we got reviews from IANA and the other groups from regarding the whip I think that the review will be much easier than whip"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "We will have this specification out soon I think that's this seems like a great plan plan What's the? What's the implementation status? Have you written, have you implemented it yet? Yeah, I mean, yeah I think it has been implemented by, yeah specifically the SCATI certified for the whole web specification? And, you know, both the both ends and it all works? Yeah, yeah Awesome. All right, I think this sounds like a great plan Again, yeah. So if we can get the next versions of the drafts out, you know, September-ish on October-ish, well, that'll give us time to get comments going And if you want, when the next version comes out, I can even ask for early reviews. So for example, if you want to hit me, want me to hit like an earlier review for the H.D DIR thing, we can get that before we actually start an IETF last call. We can get it now And maybe that's, maybe that's prudent because we got so many comments last time. I think you will, I personally think you will fix them all and it'll actually go through a lot quicker, but, you know you never know. Yeah, let's let's wait. I, think that it will let's wait until we finish the work on whip because probably when, I mean, the they think that will be the same for both uh documents because most of the HTTP language is the copy paste between one and the other Yep. Maybe the only one that is different is the server site events that we have added to web. But I think that the is best if we finish the address all the feedback in WIP and then we backport all the changes needed into Web so we know that we are not going to have to do or receive that advice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "Okay, great. All right, cool I'm looking forward to it. All right, so let's go next to the recovery event presentations All right the ping, you're up. Just tell me when you want to go to the next slide Okay, thank you very much So this is a very simple proposal for the server sand event, which is we called Reconnect event I have submitted a pull request in the GitHub and I have a very brief discussion with Sergio several months ago and I want to hear more feedback and to see if we can have consensus in this working group Thank you, Shane So for the youth cases, there are a couple couple of use cases for example if the quality of the service of the VIP resource declines, which affects the quality of experience for the end users, that is one typical user cases for this proposal And secondly, for example, the Connect between the VIP player and the VIP resource is degraded, which also affects the quality of the experience for the end users. So for this kind of scenarios happens, this reconnect event could be useful to recover the web session So the proposal is very simple just to add a reconnect event in coverage draft in section 4.6.1 server sand event extension And this event is sent by the VIP resources when the following situation occurs as introduced earlier"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "Next slide, please please Okay, thank you. So this slide shows how this event works so upon a receipt of the reconnect event, the VIP player restart VIP protocol process as currently defining by the VIP draft So basically that means that the extension basically have to parse in the calendar draft. One is some distraud about this new type of service and event we call Reconnect as highlighted here in this figure And secondly, detailed definition of this event The event name is Reconnect and the data in the current version, we put the VIP endpoint URL in the data So next slide, please please So this is a summary of the proposal and you can you can check the link of the GitHub pool request to see the detail. Next slide please Next. Yes next, please. Okay, so there is once more problems. I think you um valuable for the discussion in this working group is whether we put a new web and endpoint URL in this in this or we just use our original URL as Sergio suggested So I do a very simple analysis for these two options If we use for the original URL, the advantage is it is very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "simple for implementation and the disadvantage is that is cannot provide flexibility If we use configure UIL, the advantage is that we can have more flexible For example, if the control plan have a new BIP endpoint to recover the web session, it can put the new web endpoint URL here But of course, it will have more implementation costs So I'd like to hear feedback in this working group, which option is more reasonable? Okay, thank you That's the end of this last. Thank you you Okay, great. Sergio So first yep, go ahead, Sir Joe So, uh, first you can do you guys hear me now So, first of all, I think that this event is very helpful. In fact, I have already implemented, well, I had something similar implemented in our custom protocol And, for example, we use it to when one service over overloaded and we want to migrate one view from one example we use it to when one server is overloaded and we want to migrate one viewers from from one server to another we use this event in a similar way and also, for example, if we want to set down a server, we send the events so the client can reconnect instantly and soon led to the and also for example if we want to set down a server we send the event so the client can reconnect instantly and soon led to another server in case of a down a server, we send the events so the client can reconnect instantly and soon led to another server in case of we were shooting down the server we need to recycle or we want to just differentiate the number of viewers that are connected to a server. The only thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "that I'm not sure is if the user if adding the endpoint URL to the the, to the event is adding the endpoint Ural to the, to the, to the event is a good idea or not. I see the value of it, I see the value of using it for being able to radiate it to somewhere else but we have to be careful that and that the events are optimal so there may be some again to be careful that the events are optimal. So there may be some, there may be clients that don't implement this event so the server will have to be ready and to this event so the server will have to be ready and and to receive the client reconnected into the into the same, into the region be ready and to receive the client reconnected into the the original URL. And if you have to do it anyway, what is the benefit of adding a different URL that may or not be used? So that's my only concern about this URL in the, data of the other And that's it Dapang, did you want to respond to that or should I go? ahead with my comment? I think what Sudo said is it makes sense And I don't want to clarify that even if we use a configurable URL we can compatible with original URL. For example, we can put the original URL in the data then the endpoint, then the we WIP, you know, the client can use original URL Probably that is one solution Yeah, but my point was not about what is the behavior"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "on the server, but that it will happen that even if you put out URL in the in the, well, no, because there would know be even that there will be clients that we will not be able to send the event too, because and if you if you disconnect then they will connect again to the same to the same server I mean just that I mean I know saying that it is something bad, but it is something that we have to know that it will happen Jonathan? Yeah jonathan hui two questions. First of all, this is a complete restart. Like if you were implementing this in a, you know, in a browser, this would be a new peer connection, right? There's no, it's not a nice restart or anything like that It's a full clean peer connection from scratch. Is that right? Yeah, yeah. Okay, I mean, that does have like some disadvantages like you have to do your bandwidth, the estimation ramp up again and whatnot but it's probably the right thing if you're moving anyway The other question I had is this is a server-initiated move. Is there something a client Thank you move is just reconnect because you felt like it? You don't have to do any signaling at all for that For this proposal, yes, it's a server-initiated Yeah. But for client initially I don't think we currently have a proposal but I mean, my thought would, my first thought would be you don't need to I mean, you don't need to specify anything. It's just the client connects again because it wants to okay um i guess the only question i mean sort of the more elaborate question I have is do we expect that? clients are a full HTTP stack and thus doing things like if the server sets a cookie on the first connection it'll be presented on the second one and things like that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "but maybe that's interesting because you know if the because, you know, if the server wants to know, hey, this is the same guy, that sounds like what cookies are for if it's a full HTTP stack. But I don't know if we're expecting they are always Lorenzo is saying on the chat that temporary configurations are a better option and also regarding the fact that the may be some clients that are not able to reconnect that you can use always the 300 there that there may be some clients that are not able to reconnect, that you can use always the 300 in the new URL to restabilit the same URL app before. So yeah, I mean I don't have any concerns about adding this in the event, just if the rest of the people are okay with that, I mean, I'm also okay. I mean, I don't have huge concerns, just didn't have the the idea I was not clear it was a good idea, but if many people see, the value, I'm fine with that All right so we're landing on configurable Mm-hmm. Okay, all right Okay, thank you very much. Yeah and that, I think, brings us to the end of our session. Thank you very much for participating We're going to try to push to get this WIP document done if there's only super minor things, I might be able to convince Marita to fix it so we don't need to spend a new version. But if we do need a new version we'll have to wait till surgery gets back from us well needed vacation in the middle of next month So, you know, the list might be quiet till then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "so we'll see. I'll keep everyone updated as we try to move through because, as again, I said there's two discusses on Josh Witt, Dashwip try to move through. Because as again, I said, there's two discusses on Josh Whitt, dash whip, and one of them, I hope we'll be clearing by the end of the week. And the other one, might take a little bit longer, but I think we're going to be good and then the plan again is to try to get WEP, WHEP, to the state. So we can have a working group last call on September or October so that we can discuss any outstanding items in November at the next IETF meeting in Dublin So without further ado, I'll give you back, you know, 20 minutes of your life Have a great day. Thank you very much Thanks for taking notes, Neil. Appreciate it Thank you. Thank you. See you it you"
  }
]
