[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "foreign foreign foreign will become audible in just any moment once we've gotten proof of life out of costume we can permanently began yep oh he has turned the green"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:12",
    "text": "shall I just thought anyway and I'll assume that costume is currently working on his uh one of your permissions and yes why don't we yeah why don't you take it away take it away James okay I'll do the usual uh good morning good morning just in the nick of time cool um I'll do the usual boilerplate that has to be done uh morning folks this is uh the recording of Jason path working group interim meeting for October 2022 uh as this is an ietf meeting uh uh the usual rules of the ITF uh with regards to participation and the likes of light here so please you know well uh the usual administrava note takers is usually me after the fact blue sheets are automatic uh I'll keep an eye out on the chat there's only a handful of us so it shouldn't be a problem um with regards to a gender bashing Glenn you sent out an email stay um does anybody else have anything they want to add to the discussion for today oh somehow I missed that email in the in the flurry um it wasn't really a input to the agenda so much as uh uh just input to the meeting you know in terms of draft zero seven and all right but I'm not I didn't have um a gender items really okay well let me let me propose an agenda then um I propose that for our agenda today uh we take up the Iraq draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "first I think we can dispose of that fairly quickly and then we will attempt to ascertain what issues are really outstanding on on the main draft and work our way through those does that sound reasonable okay okay so let's start with Iraq um Kirsten so O2 has been posted if I'm correct if I if I if that that's correct right yes so Tim made the the changes there that became obvious from the Shepherd review um so this should now be covered and I think we are ready for working with Glasgow it's anybody who who disagrees thinks we should who uh I think we're ready for a working group last call as well does anybody disagree um I think in in our uh in our discussions Tim and Carson there was something mentioned of an O3 that needed to go out to something to have kicked out before or are you expecting to publish a new version anyway as a result of the next phases of document progress yeah my expectation is that we will get some feedback during working with glass Hall in particular because we will shop this document in in other working groups as well and there may be some people who see it for the first time uh so I think it's pretty normal for a working group last call to result in an updated document and that would be the initial three oh okay cool countries are great yep um in that regard um I have opened a new issue on the Json schema spec uh currently Jason schema uses ecma"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "262 for regular expressions and it's been kind of a point of contention with people in various languages that don't support ECMO 262 fully um and so I've I'm proposing that we migrate to this eventually stating that it is a a work in progress just as kind of a um as a proposal for possible future updates um but that's just one Arena where I I think this could be quite useful uh outside of Jason path as well Carson I um I tagged you in that issue as well great thank you okay very good so in that case we will take that as consensus and move ahead and launch the wglc I guess James we should ask you to do that since you're the shepherd uh yeah yeah I can initiate that after this call okay excellent all right so um uh with respect to the main draft um I'm looking at uh I I clicked this morning on the editor's link or editor's draft button and that got me something that advertises itself as being published on 16th October um is that in fact what you consider to be the latest draft there Glenn or Carson yeah it should be uh zero seven on the uh document name um oddly I don't see any version number at all on this in the HTML version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "oh wait we said that the top internet draft second line down right at the top in small print it just says Json path based latest yeah so when you look into the repository the repository doesn't reflect uh the the revisions of the internet draft this always has the latest version and it starts with the main branch and you actually can select other branches uh to look at um and if you go into the the main page of the repository uh the readme has a link that compares what is in the repository with what has been the latest submission I think that's the the third entry in the list of links in the chat beat me by two seconds yes and if you uh use that link which I am I'm pasting uh you will see that there is a little bit of gratuitous difference between latest and O7 which has to do with the fact that Martin Thomas's template uses different settings for formatting then um the the internet draft repository uh so sometimes there's RCA return sometimes there's data tracker and yeah there's some work to be done but apart from that the the versions are identical uh but that will also change as soon as we push something to me sure okay so O7 is the one to look at um okay so I think for us to work now we need to um uh uh uh have an agreement on what the issues are so looking at the issues list I see um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "one two three four five that are open uh Glenn and Carson do you believe the issues list is a representative snapshot of where we actually stand that's just a great question I didn't really have time to to check it again is it worthless then just going through the issues there's less than a dozen of them there are 10 no permissions that I can see yeah I think the the thickest issue that we still have to uh work on is two or three and that of course also covers 154 um and 194 and um yeah they're all labeled extension right right right right right right right pardon me I was ignoring the extension tank so um Kirsten you were going you were working on the notion of an extension Point has there anything happened on that not yet I was waiting for for the merge which has happened yesterday so this is the next thing to do Okay so does that mean that we're really not in a position to discuss anything with extension on it well it's easier to discuss it when you have the full proposal right I agree so maybe our goal for this meeting should be to uh clean up everything that is not marked extension yes yeah excellent Glenn do you have an opinion about what the best order to take these up in is uh well there there are two which are currently addressed by a an inflight PR so number 260 and number two five two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "are addressed by an employee PL um so I don't think we really discussed them unless someone wants to right I believed we had agreement achievement in principle on 260. um what we wanted that to say and what was the other one 252. yeah I can't remember that one at all we weren't including the input value in the list of items to Traverse in The Descendant selector so essentially it means you you we end up missing out the children at the top level item because we were enumerating just the descendants of the top level item and then looking at their children um that makes sense okay well frankly in the in the you know last couple of weeks before this meeting I have been I think we've all been concerned with getting the the that big pile of PR's sorted and merged which we have so big thank you to uh to Greg and Glenn and Carson for arranging for that to happen um pasta is not obvious what the best to me what the best use of our time here is uh well could we um could we go through the issues I think some we might be able to close uh could I ask you to um to to suggest an order there Glenn yeah let's let's start with 227 because I think that is probably um not something we want to go in here Jason path branding proposal right I'm going to my instinct is to Simply say okay we'll get to that at some point um is that something we would do before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "iesg submission it's not a requirement for iesg submission I mean where we suddenly can edit during record last call um so I don't think it's a blocker for going forward but on the other hand I think it would be nice to have a little bit of FaceTime uh to see where we are with us I mean is it worth spending a few minutes talking about that one now so if you open that issue I see a total of uh five proposals in there but if you look at them iterate if you look at them in order they kind of um show an iterative story I think yeah I think that the main discussion point is whether the the logo should be keyboardable if yes that that limits the number of proposals we actually have to approximately two and if we think the keyboard ability is not so important then of course we uh we have a much much more open field I have been involved in the production of a substantial number of rfcs and this is the first time this has even come up so maybe it's just because I'm a little bit behind the times is there a set of traditions or well-established best practices for um we do often say how people are supposed to pronounce something so that this to me this would be a bit of an uh logical extension to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:04",
    "text": "okay I guess my question is where would this appear in the RFC if anywhere yeah I think this is external to the RFC so why is it a matter this is more Community Based okay yeah where would probably in the just the repo read me I guess I don't know are there other ietf specs that have logos like Jason schema has a logo but it's not it's no longer ietf how do those other ietf so the short answer is so to give you another example the quick working group uh I can show you uh have a this so this is their logo uh the only place that they use it is on this website uh in their GitHub repos in the readme uh and they've even gone to the extent of creating uh merch stickers and and such with them on none of this my understanding is ITF sanctioned this is more of a chairs and regular participants for this working group do stuff with the logo because it's an ongoing thing um I think one thing to consider is is that I well extensions may prove otherwise that we probably won't keep the the Json path working group as more of a one shot where we intend to create these documents and revisit whether or not we want to keep it going so really the only place that we would use such a logo is you know in would be for implementations to use it but then there's a a question mark over or then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "how does that work with respects to intellectual property of the library right so a tangential question is um where is that website uh managed in relation to the ietf so that website is managed by the working group and I'm not quite sure how it's posted I if I remember off the top of my head this is something that the chairs of the working group do um okay so it's not something that the ITF manages its individuals with a networking group who just so happen to be chairs we often have landing pages for working groups and research groups and these are usually managed by the chairs I mean they are not going to do something that's preposterous from the point of view of the working group but they they also are not tightly controlled by the working group either yeah so I I would consider this to be the same thing um it's it's not a standards issue it's a community issue um yeah and that gets back to my original uh argument for keeping the slack server um but that's a different discussion um but I I think having a logo is a good step toward trying to build a community around Jason path um the Jason schema Community is is absolutely fantastic we have a bunch of people asking questions in multiple places and like stack overflow on GitHub in slack and it's it's it's really nice to be able to to interact with people who are using Json schema in different ways so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "that we know how to continue developing the spec um building that Community around Jason path would give us those uh those same things so much to my surprise I discovered that jsonpath.org jasonpath.dev and so on are all available so we could have a website if we wanted having said that [Music] I haven't seen none of these proposals make my heartbeat faster to be honest you know they're not but you know yeah personally I like the dots um it can be keyboarded the the double dot is a thing in the syntax the J the curly braces denote Jason I don't know yeah I think that's good actually my instinct is to defer this issue we'll have lots of time to think about it while the IHF processes grind along and uh we can do better than any of these things I would think so could we Lop into the revisit After Base done category and close it now I think that would be I think that would be a good good course of action at this point I want to you know I don't want to be to be grumpy here but I would like us to focus on getting the spec done shall we add that to the pile yeah I don't have a problem with it okay okay yeah done that um okay what's next then what should we talk about next um we could just touch on uh 265 briefly uh just to make sure we've got consensus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "there um I can't remember who participated and I think Carson and Greg agree with me on this so we're probably okay but just raise it um it's just that we the spec differs from the implementation consensus on this particular one for good reason and I think we need to go with it um Carson's pointed out that we could uh mention something in the spec about interoperability uh for clients but I'm not um I don't think that's essential but we we can consider it as an editorial change later nobody's happy with that we can just leave it open um why shouldn't we settle it now if if we have consensus I mean um well it's just the uh the only remaining action you see the um the spec is currently correct as far as this issue is concerned there's nothing to do um but we could mention that applications that rely on the exact sequence of results will be less interoperable than ones that don't and it's just a reminder to pop that sentence into the draft yeah that seems like a valuable thing to do yeah so let's do that soon and then close the the issue if that's okay sounds good go ahead Kirsten yeah I just wanted to say this is the right way to do it yeah oh it's not myself uh then at least we'll issues with someone assigned we know that something's going to happen uh 260 and 252 are assigned to me and they are in flight so unless someone wants to discussed either of those now just leave them for PR review and merge"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "I thought we had sort of converged so I would be inclined to um to let that go [Music] um and you're saying the same is true of 252 uh we haven't discussed that then certainly Greg has approved the pr includes that change um I think um well I'd like Carson to see the pr before I merge it but we're nearly there foreign okay so are we getting to a point where um we are pretty well done aside from the single outstanding issue of an extension Point well hold on there's 195. I think we can tidy up here okay yes I think we're we're coming to the conclusion that we didn't want to go into um non-singular paths um inside the um filter expressions uh it's a bit hard to discern the consensus because it's it's quite old now we were kind of leaving it open so that we could uh you know just check that we were okay with not addressing that um I think Carson was the only one that was kind of slightly in favor of a existence test for a non-singular person I don't know I was I was happy with it yeah it cost me yeah I was happy with the with using a non-singular path as an existing as an existence test oh okay yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "all right essentially what what we are doing is we're restricting the syntax of the paths that can appear in existence tests to those of singular paths and uh I think that that is an unnecessary restriction um on the other hand that's also something that that is easily retrofits we don't break anything existing when when we actually allow a non-singular paths here as well so it's not something that really must be fixed from my point of view okay I think they the only counter argument I remember against doing this is that um it means that inside a filter expression some places where paths are permissible can can only be singular and other ones can be non-singular so there's a slight kind of memory issue for users there they have to remember which one's which but you know obviously consistency yeah what is that Glenn I I'm trying to to visualize that and coming up empty what's an example uh well if you have a path and you compare it to a literal for example so a path that's meant to identify a string and you compare it to string literal that's got to be a singular path whereas if you have with this issue if you have a path in an exist expression that doesn't have to be a singular path right right right I see I see so you just have to remember which is which what the rules are would it be reasonable is that is that difference called out explicitly in the in the spec language it will be for either yeah it would require users to be aware"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "of it you see uh they probably won't read the spec s but uh that doesn't mean it shouldn't say so so I I would I have no opinion at all as to uh which way to go but I think that if there is such a difference we should call it explicitly so people won't you know think we're fooling them or something like that so the actual spec language should explicitly point out that uh it has to be singular in this place and not necessarily in the other okay when do we proceed as follows I'll put some appear with this change in and with the the warning that there is a difference and then we'll see how the pl goes down okay so just as a reminder that means we cannot ask questions like um is there any Foo in there that has a bar in it because we don't have a descendant selector available a descendant segment available new terminology we can't ask that now but with the if we do this then we would be able to ask that well this is allowing one thing here about yes yes yeah so do we have any consensus information about this uh that's a good one um looks like nobody has actually looked this up well it's not easy to look up because it requires that the implementation has something like an existence check in the first place and um so I'm not sure did you just add one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "item to to Augustus list and and get it that way or for what it's worth I believe my implementation would support this mine is one of about 20 30 implementations at this point I'm just quickly scanning a 91 filter items in the comparison project be cool if the comparison project had to enter your your filter and it would just run them all Doling up work for other people I like that idea foreign looking through the comparison and it's as clear as mud I mean clearly there are some that I'm you know uh at sign dot ID equals to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "yeah so they're um support this I mean to think it's clearly useful you know it's not hard at all to think of a use case um and yet it is clear that there are some that apparently don't now I'm pretty sure it's not covered um okay I'll take an action to add something to the comparison project um to test that Glenn are you um are you contributor on there do you have the ability to merge PRS or are we still reliant on the owner to do this hpos but I don't have the setup to um do a full test locally so I kind of depend upon Kristoff to finish things off for me but he's pretty responsive when I put things up so it should be okay so I think our takeaway is uh that our consensus is that we like this there's nobody who's really against having uh non-singular expression here assuming that it's not an egregious stepping away from what's what's currently supported in the field yeah sounds right yeah um okay going back to the list of issues mayor suggest that 203 is assigned to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "Karsten because it's got in fact all the extension ones are starting to cast it's got the 16th reload please reload ing Magic uh how about 160. yeah that that's essentially covered by but it should be merged into uh two or three yeah it seems redundant yeah but maybe if you could assign it then we've got a track of which issues we're actually going to work on yeah so I think that we'll just leave The Branding proposal and the administrative issue 151 which we definitely don't need to address until the base is done right brilliant thank you I think we're done with that list of issues excellent so in that case I guess we should talk about scheduling um noting that it f-115 uh is about three weeks time and we can't look at either side of it by a week or two if I'm not mistaken um is it worth us doing a meeting at the end of November I'm hesitant to go into December because I know that you know in the lead up to Christmas end of the year Etc people are generally less available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:04",
    "text": "so in November um we could look at trying to meet the week of November 21st Monday 21st okay do we have Americans here oh that's right that's probably thanks Thanksgiving yeah Greg you're you're a sort of an American but you're not there right no I'm in New Zealand I escaped so I think that week is available to us yeah okay it'll be quiet after this yeah are we trying to get uh craft out before the 115 deadline next week I don't know that would be lovely but it seems uh ambitious at this point yeah we'd have to do it by the end of the week okay if that is not the case then we can get the draft out again at the sort of IDF week so on October excuse me November 6th ambitious for the extension Point stuff I expect there could be some discussion about the extinction Point proposal"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:07",
    "text": "unless and I said misjudged it I would have thought we needed to get the proposal out and have an interim meeting to discuss it and then finish it off so it became we're talking about a few months well uh I would hope you know I mean I think we all know more or less what we're going to get from from Carson here um so you know we could maybe just finish it up with email and and GitHub issues and have something pretty well finished by November 20th or whenever it was that we said and uh okay if the devil is not in the detail and if we have a following wind we may manage that let's see yeah the devil is in the ABN but yes are we do we have a um I guess a verbal consensus that the function syntax uh is the direction we want to go with this that's what I took away from the discussion so far okay and are we limiting this to filter expressions or is it more General well the federal expression is the only place where we could use a functional expression estimate all right yeah so where would you like to see it as well I've seen other implementations like tacon and Max at the end or something like that but I don't know that we need to do that I think I think having them in filter Expressions is a good starting point yeah my instinct is that's that hits an 80 20 point of four people would actually want to do extensions movement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "well it would be conceivable to to have a function segment conceivable but practical um so Kirsten how's your availability do you anticipate being able to give us something soon I anticipate that there's an internet drafted land on on next Monday which I have a few other drafts to complete and I should be able to submit something during the week after that I mean during the week that starts with the internet Drive deadlines okay I guess I should just say for the record that um you know our our Horizon on this work is not infinite yes at some point um speaking under my co-chair hat I'm going to suggest that uh our patients you know that if we don't do work on this that means we don't care enough about it so um anyhow I think I'm clear yeah Carson will you have enough Cycles in the next week or two uh to review pull requests yes right Greg same same for you yeah that's basically my job now so yeah right so yeah yeah you're getting a a PR for me with a bunch of minor editorial points great okay yeah I think all of us will stumble about these kinds of things I didn't do a full reread of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "document after the merge yet so that's actually something that needs to be done likewise in fact yeah let me just emphasize that point you know that was a pretty big merge um and uh I would encourage everybody uh to you know read this read the thing at the end and make sure nothing crept in I think we're done with our meetings sorry Greg should we get all the build stuff worked out all the the make warnings and everything yeah that was just uh just had to remove one ID that wasn't needed and it went away I think there's a collision between a um uh a curtained ID and a generated ID and removing the code ID which wasn't used to remove the Collision there's a kind of tooling issue there but I don't want to go near that for the moment I think I I think I remembered that um if we were I think we should check to make sure that all the links lead to where we want them to lead I think we'd get warnings for broken links right but if we had if we had a coded link match up with a generated link somewhere else oh yeah and so if we were linking to the coded link yeah and we removed it now it's going to go to the generated link so we need to make sure that all of our internal links work properly references to the coded link couldn't see any okay okay folks are we done for this evening I think we're done I think so yeah brilliant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "excellent okay well thank you everybody I'm I'm sensing the finish line and I I think it is not crazy at all to think that we will be substantially done with our with our initial cut of this draft by the end of the year hey Tim would you mind sticking on for a second I've got a couple questions for you uh sure you probably don't want to do this you probably want to do this offline oh no it's fine it's just general questions about ietf meetings and such as well still end up on YouTube yeah why not all right so I was I was just curious of how the the ietf meetings work you mentioned the ietf 115 or something like that coming up I didn't know how that worked uh are they open are they ietf only what what kind of things there is no membership to the ietf so there's three meetings a year um and now that we're having physical meetings there's usually one in Europe one in Asia one in North America you can either attend as a remote participant which comes with a lower cost to it and the cost increases depending on how early or late you pay for your attendance um it starts at about 230 us I think and the physical attendance costs a bit more um the uh we we don't generally have meetings in the uh for Jason path because we found very early adding much lower attendance participation because of that barrier to entry um so we just run this working group as a sort of an interim only thing which is generally not an issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "okay okay is that stuff available online to look up like the scheduling yes uh Yes actually and you can just start at ietf.org um there's uh some efforts at the moment to write some uh some documentation to help people uh talk to their bosses about the benefits of attending the ITF and an explanation of it the the costs and all the rest of it um I could probably send you that if I can if it's in a usable State um okay but uh you you work for Microsoft don't you I work for Postman oh okay I was about to say because um uh if you were still at Microsoft I thought you were at one point um that they have many if there's many attendees um and it might have been easier to hook you up with a colleague that would have known the processes I imagine I imagine postman's probably familiar with it as well um okay yeah and and uh Dennis Miller is actually a member of uh very active in ietf and also active in Json schema so I can tack him up if necessary yeah yeah it may be the case that when we go to uh ietf last call um that if a really you know substantial discussion breaks out we may decide that we you know owe the community and I and a presence at some future ITF so that could happen all right thank you all right okay okay thank you everybody talk to you later yep bye-bye thanks chance"
  }
]
