[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:57",
    "text": "you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "uh all right it is 10 o'clock in vienna top of the hour and most other time zones or on the half hour if you're in some unusual places uh india or newfoundland i don't know if you have anybody from there uh and so uh welcome to abt core um not a you know that that's a decent number of participants uh let's see so welcome everybody we have bernard as a remote chair who's here i am the local chair um if you're so the usual tips uh please state your full name before speaking you can join the in session jabber room um if you're here in person please sign the beautiful virtual blue sheets by logging into midiko that's also how you can join the mic queue we will be doing the myq entirely via midiko so as to keep fairness between the remote and local participants um remote participants uh please keep your audio and video off unless you're sharing or presenting um okay um as mentioned there's the the notes on how to use the medico remotely uh video is encouraged but not required but you have to enable videos and audio separately here's the general links for things uh hopefully nobody has any issues but if you do here's how to do them report them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "note well hopefully everybody here has seen this before but uh especially because you had to see it when you registered but in general this is the policies and procedures of the ietf for ipr and consent to recording and code of conduct in particular uh fortunately we seem to don't seem to have problems with this group but just a reminder to treat everybody professionally and with respect and dignity um in general behave like a good person about this meeting agenda notes stefan has volunteered to take notes but he will not be using the uh the cody md because he prefers microsoft word but if anybody wants to take notes and code emd they can um if anybody uh wants to monitor the jabber room that would be appreciated because i might be juggling too many things but if not i probably can help that also um i think bernard said he would monitor the queue while i do the slides in the jabber is that right bernard or people can presenters can manage their own queue if they can see it right yeah by the way you do have a bit of hum bernard so you might want to or maybe that's the room i don't know we'll see what happens over this okay here's the agenda start with a brief discussion of uh crypto cryptex and then skip uh the 7983 bis that's the demultiplexing some stp for rtp over quick and gaming goes over quick and then i think colin had a suggestion for an agenda bash because we have a bit of time colin go ahead yeah i'm just hoping given this time at the end that we could have some discussion around this uh sure and i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "didn't say my name colin jennings uh these short tags on um that we've been discussing for years and i think i've got a way of of us thinking about this that might help really help us get to a decision i'm not proposing we'd get to a decision pay or anything we'd go do that at the end so i'd like to put some time at the end if we have for that for maybe 10 minutes or so that should be fine because we have a fair bit of time as you can see all right uh document status uh i'm not positive these all been published in our last meeting but we have published them so that's good and vp9 is still in misrep because of i think an indirect reference on frame marking which is why we've done back on frame marking uh cryptex is an itf last call but we have a few comments on that some issues that came up uh during last call i don't know if they were because of last call or just because that's when richard happened to look at it but um i think we'll have a little bit of discussion of that in a bit um and we've adopted a few other drafts uh just one issue we wanted to uh ahead yeah this one uh came up as part of when i'm doing the write-up you know it asks if about the ipr declarations and whether the working group has discussed this i did post a an email to the list uh and basically the what the pub wreck requests is that the working group has discussed this and that there aren't objections to proceeding so i just wanted to point this out and allow anybody who wishes to speak to do so okay so if anybody has any issues with these ipr declarations on the bbc payload format uh please let the working group um if we hear no objections we'll assume"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "the working group is fine with that and we'll proceed with um um proceed with uh request publication yeah just just to note so march 8th we submitted the thing to the list we haven't gotten any objections um are there any objections here okay i'm not seeing anyone in the queue so for the minutes i think we should record that there were no objections at least in the meeting okay good okay all right um okay and so that's okay and uh liaison statements um we'll be talking about the what the web transport one from what did you see in a second uh we set the response to the mpeg green metadata uh which i think also got set for it sent to the cc to the list so uh um relating to the green metadata i think stefan you noted that there was some kind of uh update needed to the itf liaison tracker is that right we sent it did we send it to the wrong place or something in contact with us i i i thought this is up to date it should have been up to date i i mean shinzi was gone in 2016 right uh and we had liaison traffic before i don't know where that stale uh address comes from did he use the tracker or or how he used that we sent it using the tracker uh and it apparently had okay i will look into it thank you okay thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "okay and here's um bernard you've been doing this do you want to talk to this yeah so uh uh basically will law and uh jan ivar came to ietf112 this was not a formal request didn't go through the track or anything but um in the w3c web transport working group they've been creating this api web transport api based on a bunch of use cases and they've now discovered that a bunch of the use cases have problems in fact most of them have problems and the reason they have problems is because of congestion basically lack of support for congestion control and possibly other things and so what they're looking for is some kind of feedback on what they might do and it was uh brought up i think by cullen and the mockbuff which is that one proposal is to have some kind of uh enum and a constructor that could give some hints about what you want but they're they're basically some of the things that are potentially an issue um is scenarios where the client is contributing so that would even be something like video ingestion or maybe an interactive use case um where the the client is using is not using low latency congestion control or perhaps is using bbr e1 and the probe rtt is interfering with video ingestion anyway they're trying to figure out if there's some guidance that that this working group can give them to help figure it out and there's two things they're asking here i guess uh is selectable congestion control advisable and second of all measurements what measurements uh they could they could offer i think these are two distinct things they've made some progress on the measurement stuff and stats uh but you know the app can't do its own congestion control that has to be has to be below it so that doesn't necessarily address the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "congestion problem so the question is what what can this working group tell them or advise them to do or is there some other working group that might might be helpful to them so that's uh so i did some next slide uh jonathan so i did post a message to the list trying to solicit a discussion uh usually the best way in the itf to solicit a discussion is to post something completely insane and then people will respond to try to come make something better my uh email may not have been stupid enough so we didn't get any responses so we thought we'd try to get some people to the mic and make suggestions about what what we might do in response to this liaison does anybody have any thoughts moe uh mosinetti we had an entire working group at itf on this uh rmcat and i think as lars pointed out uh yesterday you know that not really success coming out of that you know as a clear consensus on what techniques or what standards or what protocols to use for media congestion control i don't think avt core is going to be able to come up with anything better than armchat came up with over years of of work i think the clear need is is known uh we we know that traditional congestion controls like you know tcp based ones like bbr and you know renoish things are not ideal for media i think everyone knows that a better rate control a better congestion control for for media with feedback to the application about what it's doing so that applications can make intelligent decisions about what media it's selecting and how it's configuring its sources is definitely needed but i don't think avt core will be able to to do anything about it um if armchat uh couldn't then it's doubtful that we'll be able to do something soon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "well well that itself mo could be a could be a response right just point them to the rm calf drafts and basically say something along with lines of what you just said i i think the practical thing to do for people that care about this is let's try to iterate very fast on what exists so take bbr v2 see what tweaks you can add to it to make it more media friendly take gcc and see what tweaks you can add to make it more combination media and you know long live flow friendly and see if by implementation we can iterate into something that's usable um because i don't think you know standardization and you know working groups for years has has been fruitful so uh question mo would you be willing to volunteer to draft something along the lines of what you just said when you say draft image just an email to a list or do you mean an actual yeah just reply to this email and say hey here's what i recommend saying sure no no problem and and i'd also volunteered you know to spend energy with anyone that wants to uh iterate on those uh current congestion controls to make it more media friendly we'll definitely invite that too and i'll add that to the wherever we want to collaborate on that i'll add that to the list colin hi um yeah so as as a co-chair of our own cater i was going to say roughly what um mood just said uh obviously we have the rmk working group and um it did develop um a few rfcs in this space and there are a couple of congestion control algorithms that have been published with rfcs uh and some which have been discussed and not published as rfcs um and as far as i am aware they all work uh and uh you know they seem to work reasonably well that they they haven't got uh uptake for various reasons um in terms of information we need to provide i mean we did do rfc 8888 on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "congestion control feedback um you know if if you can supply that sort of information if web transport can supply that sort of information that that would be useful and probably gives the the sort of information that's needed um to do the congestion control feedback um and i i'd also remind people that the uh with my other hats on the irtf has the congestion control research group if people want advice on algorithms so uh colin when uh if you could also respond uh to the list with some some ideas on on what we might say that would also be helpful so totally 100 agree with what colin and mo just said um i think i'd like to add into this i i think as an overall area thing we should be looking at i mean imagine the use case of a browser that implements web transports and some days the application that javascript wants is doing media over the web transport and some days it's doing file transfer or something more like that i think that we need to start specifying ways of putting the hints down i know there's a common perception that we don't do apis at itf but i don't think that's really true i think we do and we can and that we should i'm not saying we define how what the api exactly looks like but we just sort of you know say like look we need an api that allows you to signal the type of following information up and down this stack of all these things has passed us through and that we start working on um i would be you know i i've been playing with congestion control algorithms uh for media based on vbr v2 um and have implementations i mean it'd be very interesting to just i mean we need to get some progress on this for media now all of that said i want to back up and 180 degrees the other direction i think it's also probably worth reminding these people you know people have run media over tcp for years and it works fine right at some level of file so there is some definite you know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "work better what they're whatever they're doing with nothing is going to work better than tcp uh and less well perhaps than some of the udp algorithms but i i again i think that the the problem we have to fix this as congestion control algorithms okay thanks sues yep i i think uh i agree with most of the things i've said by both colombo and colin so only thing i would like to add is that uh looking at itf as a body and responding to w3c uh and also given that uh there is definitely a need for something like this from multiple site like the mock mock for example or the the web transporter with risky guys they needing something like this would it make sense to uh as an itf responding to w3c but we we make a joint request uh across this multiple uh workforce to quick working group uh with with the uh kind of request saying that uh proposal saying that this this needs to be worked on uh and basically get quick working group more involved uh given that there are multiple places where this is needed and also having said that and also the uh the on the api and the feedback from the quick transport to the w3 to the web transport and also w3c we definitely need uh a kind of uh northbound apis that needs to be that kind of exposes what and uh uh app interaction feedback kind of uh um uh pointer like uh the api endpoint api that was exposed into the application so that in application if not uh can't fix the condition control algorithm but it can react on how the congestion control algorithm is doing which is not exposed into the web transport today so probably there are a couple of things at the api level with what exists today and expose that and second thing is that we uh work towards as an itf to help this w3c and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "other guys to make a formal request to the quick working group and and what are the working groups to work to solve this problem and i i like i i'd like to volunteer uh if if we proceed on this as well so the quick working group has pointed out that they don't handle congestion control that that's done at other places so i don't think bringing quick into this they basically said hey we you know just just use some other congestion control so congestion control group would probably be be more appropriate as as was pointed out makes sense thank you anyway i think we're done with this yeah as an individual i'm wondering it might be worthwhile to you know bring up to the rm cat group using arm cut algorithms with quick or something just as a discussion i don't know what's going to be the how much traction that's going to get but just you know maybe just a guidance on the existing arm cut algorithms how you'd use them with quick and which switch quick extensions you need might be useful just to for the notes um mo is taking the pen and drafting up something with the help of all these people here right uh yes thank you okay so next is uh cryptex and i think uh richard are you speaking to this uh i had some things on the one issue about encryption structure but i don't know if i said you had others just other things the same thing with the next slide i think i may have given you side control but let's see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "yeah i gave you side control richard uh fascinating and i'm not trying to see that okay hold on let me see let me take it back does that take it back for me okay i'm quite sure me try okay i'm clicking past slide control no hold on i think something weird has happened uh sergio drove i might have to stop and restart the presentation what's happened here so i just sent you a request to share slides maybe if you grant that i can just share the deck so one thing i learned is you have okay i'm saying i'm i'm still seeing the slides i don't know how to stop sharing the slides well i can just ask you to flip them oh no i think i i have lost control of the slides i'm reloading myself to see what that if that helps oh now i'm not reloading at all i'm just timing out there's someone with chair privileges i've sent a slide request and i i'm happy to just uh uh do you want me to try to load him jonathan or uh so do we still see this so i still see the slides here but i'm not sure who's actually scaring them so i'm not sure how we revoked that uh i i am seeing them and it says jonathan lennox's slides uh no no it says renowned christian how did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "that happen they click on the wrong person there we go okay all right let's try this again uh share preloaded slides oh wait hold on sure if you go to the slide share here um there okay 15. i'll just i'll just drive them that's probably easier yeah okay so okay so sergio did you want to talk to these first slides sergio we don't hear you now you should hit me yes yeah so we have failed addressed all the all the reviews or the feedback that they were writing the in the in the review and we have also added the content name and the email and the email address for the iana registration and submitted a new draft facing these issues i think that it has already been reviewed and agreed that all the feedback has been already addressed so the only outstanding issue is the one feedback that richard provides in the in the gi repository that it is the nexus light yeah so britain you want to to comment on on this sure yeah i can um comment on this i i just kind of randomly came along and reviewed this didn't see the last call announcements or anything um what i noticed is there's some ambiguity in um how this uh document defines encryption and i think it's a little bit clearer on the next slides um jonathan if you could go forward yeah um so so cryptex wants to do this uh kind of i call it punctured encryption where you don't encrypt the header of the extension data the rfc8285 i forget what the exact number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "is but the the standard uh format for the rtp extension uh and the problem on the next slide is you know if you think about encryption how encryption works like we've got these two encryption frameworks that are universally used aud takes unitary byte strings for aad authenticated data and plain text and of course produces uh ciphertext um right so you can't do puncturing there um you need to produce a provide a unitary plain text for a contiguous plain text and if you're going to use a screen the other interface is the stream cipher plus mat construct um and in that case you can skip around but you need to tell it you know whether uh whether you're skipping or whether you're considering the two blocks of input to be contiguous um next slide please so we kind of need to decide like how we're gonna we the the spike before didn't specify clearly kind of what the input was to uh the ciphers in these in these two cases so in the eid case um we need the continuous plain text in the stream cipher case we need to know like are we skipping over some of the key stream where are we just you know applying the key stream to different spots um so uh the the we kind of explored two options in this pull request next slide um the first option was to do it kind of aead style where you would basically undo the puncture to create uh contiguous authenticated data in plain text you run that through the cipher and then you undo it like you don't have to do it this way you could do it with multi-part inputs to your cipher but you know logically it would kind of look like this um well i'll forward a bit and this is kind of where the option we ended up liking a little better uh because it is focused on aad which is the the way we hope things are trending to go in the future um you know kind of universal aed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "everywhere the main main drawback is that it requires this swapping operation if you're doing things in place or it requires a complicated more complicated interface the aead um but anyway this is this is the kind of the first option to swap things to make the the inputs contiguous um next slide please yeah the other option is to do this um kind of in place uh stream-like authentication with uh you know clarifying that you skipped the uh the chunk of the key stream that points it corresponds to the the extension header um the the downside to this one is that you end up locked into the stream cipher plus hmac framework um which we we already are for header encryption but this would extend it's the whole packet and be kind of a downer so next slide the proposal here we landed on in the in the pr is to focus on this aead like option where you synthesize the contiguous authenticated data in plain text um under the reasoning that you know we should focus on aed and it's not that bad to do um to mem copy the the csrc's around to get the encryption so that's the summary uh sergio uh kindly put together pr which i think is uh in a landable state right now so i think we should we should be ready to go here in terms of solution um but we wanted to present this here at the meeting in case folks have thoughts concerns objections etc uh colin see you in the queue and i'll get into those individuals so so i mean first of all let me just start with yeah 100 proposal one was alright let's option one let's do this but this was discussed immensely before we even adopted this document went on and on forever um and we came to this conclusion that the mem copy was soup was not an expense and in fact if you structured the way in your library that you stored the data correctly you didn't even need to do it but no one's going to really do that the mem cop is cheap um and the um the that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "i that we were definitely fine with being just aead and i thought there was an itf document that said all future work should be aead but i can't find it now that i said that um i i'm sorry i sent an email to the list last night but i realized i didn't send it to you richard so my apologies but i mean i i think that this has been the intention from all along so i don't think there should be huge controversy about this about that cool yeah yeah uh jonathan individual this is what i this is how i implemented it when i did the the test vectors so i think it was what we were always intending and i guess it's basically richard found us that we didn't explain it well in the document so this is basically just editorial improvements which is great cool so us it's just a thought here i support option one as well but on the point that cullen made uh if there is no such document that aea is the future should we be asking to have such a document to avoid confusions like this in the future uh i don't think that's i think don't think such a broad scope of statement is in the scope of this working group if the itf in general wants to do that that should come out of the security area i hope uh i mean i think in general this means that all encryption should be aeid is pretty well established at least in the security community i'm not sure any statement anyway i don't know if it's a document to that effect or just you know common knowledge but it sounds like maybe that's something to take to sag or something if it doesn't actually exist just so that the rest of the community knows it all right uh next up is skip which i think daniel are you presenting this um this is mike fowler uh dan is online too both of us will be presented okay we'll start with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "next slide this is just a slide we keep in place to keep track of background where we come from and that we have deployed devices in the skip in the us and nato community that are presently using the protocol we have written a draft rfc for the problem statement is more along the line the third bullet that the most commercial network administration security personnel are not aware of skip and can result in the skip media subtype being removed from an sdp which is disastrous to us we'll move on to the last bullet this i'm sorry the skip rfc was accepted as abt core work item in january comments received have been reviewed and incorporated into a new draft of this rfc next slide and this is what we're looking at two media subtypes audio skip and video skip have been registered with ayana as a rtp media format media types the rfc is needed to provide additional information for those media subtypes the header fields payload format fields as well as serve as a general awareness of that skip is out there an example of the mapping is shown there with a with the audio stream and the video stream next slide you call for adoption um dan you want to take this sure uh we had the call for adoption back in january daniel your audio is kind of low do you wanna well we'll try that again is that better that's better yeah okay uh yeah we had the call for adoption back in january um during the interim meeting a month ago we had some comments that were brought in uh to discuss um what to change so we went ahead and made those changes uh specifically uh section 4.1 we changed uh i should do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "show again that was legacy text to support excuse me texas some of the very early adopters of the skip in our version of uh internal version if you will of the spp didn't quite do it exactly the way we had specified it but we certainly again we control this skip protocol in our own see a working group so we can certainly make those changes ourselves to bring those others up to date um who also comment regarding uh whether or not to pre-packetize skip um we basically said no because skip is not really a skip is a real-time protocol audio and video so it doesn't really make sense to re-packetize it uh save it as a stream but replay later also because it's encrypted so we added a sentence to stipulate not to repackage skip um we also uh updated this the section about the marker bit um basically saying it's going to be always going to be zero for this discontinuous traffic and market that will be set during continuous traffic based on the underlying media again because during the continuous traffic we're basically uh carrying other other codecs other registered codecs like milk and g729b things like that that already defined how to use uh the marker bit so we chose to allow that to be controlled by that those codex themselves next slide um for sections five one and five two uh that are basically i've repeated the iana registration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "uh again we specified n a because there's no previous versions of the immediate subtype so that's the reason why we chose that and left that in there at this point so and again finally for sections eight one and eight two we move the skip uh to 14.2 and skip to 10 references uh from the normative section to the informational section and finally we renamed and resubmitted the draft with a new name so that's where we are with that the next slide i don't know if mike's you want to go back to talking about this or these issues or sure i'll take that um we're here because issues have occurred between oems and of network equipment network administrators security personnel who are unaware of skip and the ftp contents necessary to establish our secure session so the skip rfc is a globally accessible information as to how to handle this comments we've received from the abt core call for adoption period have been reviewed since then no new comments have been received so the question really is we'll handle questions from you guys and then we need to know what our next step is bernard i'll see you in the queue uh i think the document is pretty clear about what needs to be done in the case of audio basically don't mess with with the payloads and and uh hopefully your sbcs will accept the skip audio type i have a lot of questions though relating to the video use cases like is is skip gonna be used for video conferencing uh kind of in an intend encryption scenario"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "what are kind of the video video use cases because in the case of video as we've been talking about with end-to-end encryption there there could be quite a few other considerations relating to you know forwarding headers and all kinds of kinds of stuff but um i think the best way to look at the uh the video stream is is actually quite similar to how we handle audio we the sdp is simply meant to establish a channel by which the traffic stream will occur there's once that setting up a secure trunk if you want to call it that between two endpoints the the handling of the the actual parameters of the video as well as the audio stream too they are handled by um by the negotiation that'll occur across that link so to the to the networking world um and those those type that type of information is handled elsewhere within the skip standards um to the networking world that's going what they're going to see is the sdp and they're going to see traffic um there will be marker bit it'll be framed according to the ietf standards um so for instance if it's a video stream we're doing a secure end to end application layer conference using h.264 that will be negotiated within the framework of that sdp and to the ex to anyone looking at that traffic stream they will not be able to see what that negotiation looks like it's just point to point like h.264 or is it conferencing with that's left to our vendor community how they wish to implement across that link"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "but it's always h264 abc there's no temporal scale there's no scalability or anything like that it's just well again to some degree that'll be left to the vendor how they choose what what protocol they used to run and negotiate within a secure channel into the network it's it's all gonna it's gonna look like encrypted traffic um so the uh we believe it'll be h.264 we believe in in time they'll be um perhaps more about the uh how they handle the conferencing um within these channels they may be more than one but at least for for now that's the approach is that we consider it'll be h.264 yeah so um did i understand that correctly that you have some some basically invent uh negotiation stuff going on there and if yes the documents that describe that assuming these are skip documents are these the ones that i'm the normative reference and that i can read upon request they are the ones that will be in the normative reference that you can request and remember that that all that will be seen in the network will be just bits um it'll be the the encryption stream will be established and then there'll be some negotiation for instance going back to audio will it be melp or will it be 729 or will it be even a proprietary uh solution for voice or for video i think i get it i'm just interested how this is supposed to work because this is this kind of an unusual way how rtp is employed right it's it's it's a little bit following the old"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "let's throw some mp4 framer frame stuff there right everything's is hidden in that yeah this actually seems to be doing it even a little bit more i'm just interested how this can work and uh but if these documents can be made available then i'm read them and yeah yeah they're actually there actually are two deployed products that use video right right the encryption is is that it's more of an application layer so i mean it's not within the rtp packet itself it's really the payload for example so it's not it's not an rtp layer encryption like the previous slide was talking about it's it's the actual payload itself with mel for 729 for example for audio or even for the h264 for video it's uh it's the payload is once again isn't prickly so the header would the header of the header would look the same as it would for the native code so so cullen is saying something in the chat room uh that might be relevant to folks he's saying as far as i can tell the conferences are all mcu transcode style conferences so they're not the conferencing is apparently not being done using a selective forwarding unit which would need some header info to decide what to drop i know colin you want to say anything else yeah sure i mean basically i want to say like let's say these brought us a completely tran completely black box um thing that says we want to move some data over it we're not going to tell you whether it's a video or audio codec or whether it you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "know transcodes holograms it'd be perfectly fine for us to approve this document with no clue of what's inside that black box we're talking here about just moving it i i don't i don't really see the problem with this document like this has been done for a long time it's widely deployable there's no problem with it uh it meets the use cases people have for it but it's the part that we're reviewing of it is is really just the the registration of the payload type we don't really care what's inside there so i i think the whole thing's fine regardless of what it does um that said i mean i i you know i i don't i think that probably over the long term like maybe they would change to do things in a different way but uh you know i think it works for their conferencing use cases so i don't see a problem sorry i just lost the slides um okay oh yeah um stefan are you still in the queue or is that lingering all right no worries uh ted did you want to mention the thing you said in the chat or are you is that uh ted hardy speaking uh so i think what i was putting in the chat is is more procedural and i think what marie and i were talking about is that just like you have a down ref called out in uh in a last call when when this does go to last call and i assume the next step here is working group last call followed by itf uh when it does go to last call that calling out that the um the the documents uh are are probably not going to be available um uh is the right thing to do because then anybody who reads the last call goes in and evaluates it on the terms that that colin just laid out knowing that it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "going to be treated like a black box okay i will say i did try and request the documents back in november and i never got anything back it's it's possible that requesting them does work for some set of circumstances and i just didn't fit in them or possibly i i'm just in there spam traps for whatever other reason um but uh uh i think we should just treat it uh as a black box call it out in the in the last call as unavailable and leave it at that okay all right so oh uh richard uh just a quick idea that they're the iana registrations for these media published um i wonder if there's some action to take with diana here uh could you repeat that your your little uh broke up a little bit during here but to whom did you mean to addressing that question too sorry sorry yeah it knows me that again um so i'm a bit concerned about coming about specifications not being available given that diana registration these media types lists the specifications as published um now we can quibble that what it means to be published i think um being available to folks on the internet is is generally a definition people use but colin i think you might have insights here so i'm i'm not looking at the draft but i actually recommend i mean my understanding of let's ignore this draft event let's just talk about ipr declarations on these types of documents my understanding is that to discuss sending a media type over rtp you do not actually need a normative reference to the codec okay or any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "information inside of it um and that's very important for our ipr declarations in some ways um and that you can have an informational reference to it i don't even think this is a down raft and last call as long as it was informational reference i sent the suggestion to the list long ago that perhaps it should be an informational reference i don't know if that happened or not but exactly yes yeah so i mean like we're done it's not even a down ref yeah sorry i i didn't mean to to delay this document i just meant to note that um you know in in parallel to this discussion that there there might be an i in a question so again for the notes um i think the conclusion of this discussion is that the normative references to the skipped documents that are there at the moment which say something here's a reference and if you want to get the document talk to these people and ted did that and didn't get a reply for four months that these documents probably should just go into the informative reference i believe that's already been done is it yeah it has so that's it second yes second bullet on this slide okay good thank you so i don't need to note anything there okay uh ted hardy uh so i i think i have confused the matter by using the term downref and i apologize um i i did not mean to imply that this was exactly the same as a downrav i do think spec unavailability is a con is something that we need to call out i don't think it's blocking as as cullen pointed out uh this isn't something that we have to have but if the specs are in there and not available it's it's just polite to the community as we ask them to review it to let them know that they're likely not going to be available so that's basically just a note to the to the um whoever's doing this the write-up yeah that's the diagram trevor okay right well it's it's not that it's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "specs are unavailable they're available on request if you will um again they're controlled by the by our nato skip fortune group so in most cases that i'm sure they'd be fine um if you reached out to them to request them they should be able to provide those to you uh teddy thank you for clarifying that but when i tried it didn't work so perhaps you could send to avt core exactly how to construct such a request because when i sent it to the um to the listed email address requesting the name of the document and explaining i wanted to review in the context of this document i got nothing back so i mean not even an uh thank you but no nothing so if you would like to give us the procedure for requesting it that would be a different way of handling this exact problem thanks okay we'll look into that thank you okay so um for our next step um do we it sounds like you know while you know there's some issues with you know people wanting the documents to review them it doesn't sound like there are any remaining open issues as far as i know so perhaps this is ready for working group last call bernard do you think so yes i do okay all right so yeah i think uh you know bernard and i will uh figure out who's gonna be the shepherd on that and uh let's we'll do the next step okay thank you okay thank you okay so bernard i guess are you presenting this next one uh yeah okay so this is uh a little update on rfc 7983 bis next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "so just to remind people what this is about it's an update to rfc 7983 section 7 documenting quick multiplexing so it's a description of how to multiplex srtp srtcp stun turn dtls crtp and quick and then also a little bit of guidance on handling overlap between quick and turn channels that's something that's not an issue in webrtc and it also updates the dtls content type field diana page to reference a new rc there's no other change needed so one caveat here is that this applies to quick version one it is not guaranteed to work in future versions of quick so next slide so the document has been updated in version o2 so some some of the changes from version one um i did add some text about the multiplexing scenarios uh that this can be used for and they're really i think two main ones one is where we use quick primarily for data exchange and are continuing to use rtp and our tcp for the media with dtls srtp key management so and just to clarify some of the discussions we have this scenario doesn't require any replacement or changes to quick congestion control it's just using it as as data and so that's where you need the maximum multiplexing and the second scenario would be the rtp over quick scenario and that is where you're not using rtp and or tcp so you don't have to multiplex that but you still have to multiplex what's done and turn so the document covers both of these scenarios but the second one has less stringent requirements than than the first one so we clarified that the second thing is that um the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "many of the documents that this depended on have now reached our c status so we've had an update to stun an update to turn quick transport is now in rfc as is tls um so basically at this point all normative references are now published as rfcs there's no reference normative references to drafts um so question is are we ready for working group last call kind of where what do we need to do to move forward um yeah personally i would say it sounds like we are um seeing nodding in the room um so yeah it sounds like since bernard's an author on that probably i should call do a working group last call which i'll do uh sometime after where everybody's home and over there jet lag yeah that's true do it before magnus do you have something to say um bernard have you looked at what happens with quickv2 uh well uh we have had discussions which is that uh in quick v2 you know as it says here they're not required to be compatible with this um i mean that's kind of something that quick the quick working group has has said so i don't know that uh if you're asking whether it's specifically broken with quick v2 i think we'd have to do an analysis uh but do we know enough about quickv2 to do that right now uh i would think so i mean my impression is quickv2 is fairly a long quite along the way on the on the road to yeah so it it's i think you can definitely look and analyze it and see if what happens at least"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "so okay procedurally my only question would be um do we want to have a normative reference on that if it's not coming for a while yeah but okay i would suggest just looking at it see what there and then follow up because it isn't that far off i think from actually making progress so it's um in quick working group it is quick v2 is the same as we won except it's flipping some some of the bits etc so it's basically creating some of this issue here etcetera but it's it's intended to have something to for quick to use to negotiate version negotiation etc and exercise some of these mechanisms so yeah yeah all right uh speaking yeah it's supposed to be completely compatible with v1 uh the the whole point of it is greasing to make sure that metal boxes don't start seeking for specific bit patterns that are only going to be part of b1 so it should be very fast i mean i think we're we're not expecting it to take a year from now um so i think the point lucas made in the um uh in the chat is probably the right one that this should take into account uh the fact that that quick will grease some of these things and it will have multiple versions some of which will be uh compatible and some not but uh from the purposes of the multiplexing scenario that the critical bit is probably that the um the greasing will change the bid patterns well i mean there's all yeah we'll take a look at it but um you know we've had discussion with a quick working group that said that uh they weren't necessarily gonna commit to making version 2 compatible"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "uh ted hardy speaking uh whether they committed it in the past it will be there's a link in the data in to the data tracker in in the uh in the chat that you can you can follow that this particular time what we're using v2 for is uh to grease these things and therefore it will be compatible oh okay okay uh come on all right so so like with v2 you mean martin dukes directly because if so it doesn't tell it um okay and uh let's and i'm actually in the mic line to really specifically for lucas i think lucas the actual issue of lucas was raising is this um draft which uh for somebody is they're greasing the quick bit specifically um if you look at the chat he's linked to the to the reference for that which i think i mean my suspicion would be that for 7983 you have to say you're using that for demuxing so don't negotiate this extension if you're demuxing but i think we probably need to explicitly say that um yeah you could put that in the minutes that would be great yeah i mean the problem is um that uh one of the concerns of the quick working group was you know is this is this document an agreement that constrains them in some way and i think the general thought was no uh but um you know what one one could put in advice like that uh the question is whether that would uh create a normative reference on quickv2 so well i think similarly on gone quick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "quick uh quick bit grease which is hopefully okay just a bit grease yeah probably um but we should look at v2 didn't tell us to just until uh colin uh so i mean you know the purpose of greasing is to meet certain needs and you can go read the whole program edm program and everything else on it but it isn't just to try and make things broken in the internet right so i don't think they're going to do some piece of greasing that deliberately just breaks things that are happening so i think we could discuss with them but i think this whole point just raises the point that really we're going the wrong direction i think we ought to move it to a bcp and then it will constrain all the program calls um that do it and we should allocate a range of bits for each protocol and and say that that's how it is um across those protocols um and that would constrain them uh and we wouldn't be having this discussion so that's my two cents yeah my personal viewpoint is aligned with yours uh but uh it might be so that might be an appropriate thing to do but i'd like to hear what others think colin um my impression is that that may not be a good thing to do but i would be surprised if the quick quoting group would go along with it and i think perhaps a better guidance for this draft might be to say that this works with current versions of quick but be very clear that it's likely to break in the future what it says at the moment yeah and i mean presumably you know they're not going to be strengthened a little i mean quick and quick v1 presumably is not going away so you can keep using quickv1 if that's what you need to use so i mean after all that i mean i guess it sounds like we do want to add that reference to the bit grease to say you know if you're demultiplexing don't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "negotiate it um so probably i'd suggest do a rev with that um take a look at v2 see if there's anything that needs to be said see if we can maybe see if we can reference it as informative um information rather just to avoid too much in the way of uh of reference dependencies but we probably will need to normatively reference bit grease and they don't do this um and then i'd say working with less call after after we've got that uh anybody object to that yes if you can get that in a minute that would be great okay uh stephan nod so that sounds like we do all right i think that's it for this so next up is spencer okay looks like miracles are finding the camera so that's good thank you so i'm spencer dawkins talking about so many issues for sdp for rtp over quick next slide please so what i thought i was doing was basically sdp for a drop-in replacement for uh srtp uh since quick is encrypted and what i was actually doing was trying to keep track of questions about rtp over quick and about media over quick at some level because many of these questions might impact sdp at least and i was keeping those that list in at least three different places because of various reasons"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "so what i have done was uh created a get a new github that combined all the issues from the various places where i had written things down and so i'm going to hold off on updating my individual draft for now but basically collect those questions as github issues and i've already seen someone uh attending the meeting from not here uh who was issu who put in at least one new issue about 2am my time so people are starting to do that and then i'll be working on answers and updating the sdp draft if i could uh get the next slide please so some of these may be issues maybe tied to non-traditional r2p use cases if if you think about it rtc web webrtc by reference and the media of a quick buff that happened yesterday morning by reference but i'm tracking those issues i'm sorry two days ago it's later than i think um and um i'm tracking those issues anyway basically just in case we want to have rtp using quick like other media trans transport protocols do next slide please this is the slide that you also at the interim and i just wanted to say that there's three in there that are in italics uh five seven six and seven uh in the and these and these are actually still in the github for the draft because they were pretty clear and i know what to do but all the other numbers are new pointing to the issues um github next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "i had new exciting issues from bernard and one of the places and wouldn't kind of talk about we could talk about any of these during the meeting that seemed helpful but uh just like i said i wanted to be sure that you all uh saw that that was happening because um [Music] my personal github isn't really tied to a btq or mailing list nor should it be and next slide please i had some issues that were in the i had several issues in the text of the sdp draft before i started putting in additional issues there most of those had actually ended up in the draft itself uh or sorry it ended up as issues in the in github itself but there were a couple of these that were not um the next slide please so i did have some uh some issues that i'd like feedback on either here or on the mailing list just fine and uh these three here um whether double encryption matters or distinguishing between mappings on the streams on the datagrams and quick connection management in case of path failure um next slide please this is why i would like for feedback from the group which was the initial draft defined to uh secure av profiles and that was a great plan because you could ignore the secure avp av protocol part of that going over quick um because it was encrypted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "then more stuff was encrypted than srt srtp would have encrypted anyway but to use that as a hint for middle boxes to forward over unencrypted protocols so if you hit rtp on the other side of a middle box the middle box would not have to guess whether you wanted it to be secure it could just it could just say you know it came in as savp so i'm going to send it out as savp over rtp over udp um and i got a comment that said this is silly and i believe them uh yeah basically just to find avp and uh ivpf and tell the truth uh again quick encrypts more than srtp anyway that we should be using explicit signaling to tell middle boxes how to forward uh things that they receive over rtp over quick and i implemented that as pr9 which is not merged in github because i got another comment after i did that that said not so fast what about apps that are using the secure av protocols uh av av profiles now and so that's kind of like i said that's kind of where that discussion is headed but rather than going back and forth every time i talk you know it's like changing the draft every time i talk to somebody that if i'm seeing if i'm seeing discussions that are have not converged yet um i think it's i think it's fair to ask the working group what the right thing to do is um colin i see colin perkins in the queue uh colin oh i said i should be i should turn slightly to face the uh cue hi colin hello i was mostly putting myself in the queue for you to finish"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "so if you're not finished then carry on and finish oh i i i think the next slide is basically me me finishing and so you can so i can i can come to that one later and uh and we can talk now uh okay um i'm just reading your next slide here yeah um but i i think um i think the the point you're making uh with the double encryption and so on um thinks of hints at some of these issues i was going to raise which is that it's um i am increasingly unconvinced that it necessarily makes sense to run rtp over quick um i think it makes a lot of sense to run rt to use rtp payload formats and media types perhaps over quick sure but once you start looking at the rest of rtp you know the the the transport doesn't fit well the congestion control doesn't fit well the whole rtcp framework doesn't fit well um srtp doesn't fit well the sequence numbers the sslcs there's not a whole lot left of rtp other than the payload formats that makes sense um so i wonder if maybe that rather than trying to fit rtp over quick we should maybe be saying look this doesn't make sense but here are the bits that do make sense and maybe you need to define a different protocol that reuses payload formats for example over quick and then it's trivial to gateway thank you thank you colin thanks for the work uh i did respond to us a couple of issues on the github and and coming to the kind of i i called it away because uh while responding to it and that is the one that the profile started with feedback and having the rtcp there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "it is it is not very clear on how this also in the quick framework and at the same time um for the ones that working with a secure uh kind of thing where uh it's a hop by hawk between it went on the server and uh and and and uh the the srtp kind of kind of the encryption ends right there and their quick course already providing the the needed transport layer security right there and hence having the s did not make much uh was not adding more more security per say value so i i do feel uh if if we are taking some getting the rtp and sdp or tweak we need to kind of think about some of those points like colin mentioned like what are we trying to do it and sdp kind of naturally unfolds and how it gets used but but there's something we definitely have to think about a bit and uh and then we need to provide some guidance on what we need to do here thank you totally totally agree thank you uh bernard yeah um i would point out that uh as as we're hearing uh it is possible to experiment with a lot of this stuff um because we have some you know basic code and apis out there to actually build these systems um and in particular on the web it's a little bit constrained because we have web codecs which allows you to get the to encode and decode frames and then basically send them over either web transport or rtc data channel so you can actually build build some of this stuff and it is actually being done in commercial applications i would actually note that that um that this stuff is actually quite real at least at the moment it's mostly being done with containerized media but people want to get away from that uh because it's basically uh if you don't need content protection it's just a bunch of overhead so people want a way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "of of transporting these frames and what i've seen so far is that they have been using something pretty close to rt rtp so you know a lot of the fields are there the rtcp is usually done quite differently um but but uh in practice i guess to what colin is saying many parts of it are taken out but you do need kind of sequence numbers and time stamps and stuff like that and you know uh and things like that someone in the room just flinched i are yeah so magnus westland uh yeah i mean on the higher level saying here i think the only reason for having double encryption is if you have a middle box that are forwarding it without changing anything so if you have ekt for example and try to do not touched really at all the the key just forwarding the packets that's i think is the only one which would be and that i think in that case you should negotiate savpf otherwise if you're not encrypting the internal just send it to save ps if you're going to have rtp directly on quick but i mean this is back to you i think your written question is what the hell is rtp work we just you need to answer that question first or what's these things it might be several answers i i may be i may be changing the title on an issue in the in the uh in the issue tracker what the hell is um yeah yes so cool thank you thank you magnus uh and cullen so partially i really resonate with call and i i think this is a this is a a a very challenging path that's not clear the value of the end goal of but i think we sailed past that bridge we agreed to do this long ago so at this point i want to help you figure out how to get it done not just tell you you shouldn't do it and thank you i'm sending you big hugs for having to put this on it's not easy um but that's that back up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:02",
    "text": "i think your easiest path here is though it sounds silly to do double encryption and actually if you were doing it over an http turn connection that did you know https would be triple encryption um i think you should just do that that's what it signaled it's the easiest to understand it's going to be by far the easiest to do and there's multiple cases where you actually might want this there's lots of people who there's more in defense sort of type environments who like the idea of double encryption because if one of them is compromised hopefully the other one might be different like you might use rsa and one in ec in the outer or whatever there are times where you can improve your security by doing it twice there's also some cisco makes some products where we um do what we call throwaway encryption where the outer layer is tls encrypted but we know that the middle box is the man in the middle of that tls so we encrypt the stuff inside that again again in a way they can't decrypt so i like look it's it's not unimaginable that there are use cases for double encryption it's it's semantically what everything means and you're gonna have a very hard time redefining everything to semantically mean not double encryption in this case over quick so i wouldn't do it i just like if people signal that they get double encryption that's what they asked for have a nice day cool and i and so i can uh update i can update the uh issue to explain that and that's probably adding things in uh security considerations in the actual sdp draft and things like that so cool thank you and i mean i think i'd say like this might seem silly but trust me the alternative is not we're a path we're going to go down well silly for me is wandering back and forth between uh allow between registering it and not registering it you know with a cycle time of one atf um let's have a look so maybe stefan wenger maybe it's time to have a fresh look at the rtp spec and write up a short document that says what"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "of this stuff actually makes sense uh when your only purpose is to put some framing into the into the datagrams that that are offered by quick right what makes sense and you can ignore the following sections and then comes a long list starting with congestion control and good riddance to that as you all know from my viewpoint so so and the same thing potentially with the with the payload formats right there's also potentially areas in there that that don't make sense and the same thing also potentially for the uh for the um srtp and the the the security profiles so maybe maybe it makes sense to to start there and create this rtp light that i wanted to have you know throw away all this multicast support right yeah um i wanted to do that 20 years ago um maybe it's time to do just that thank you thank you stefan see uh mal those and eddie one final point on the uh srtp uh the savpf thing uh regardless of the protocol and the need implementation wise it actually may be easier to always go with a library that's tightly bound with rtp and srtp because almost everybody is going to have that already it may be actually more work to unbind them and figure out how to how to wedge in your own extraction of just the rtp layer um and put srtp much later somewhere else yeah thank you and thank you mo uh if i'm going to call on james in just a second but the uh i did want to say there is architectural work to be done here um and so trying to think about this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "one protocol at a time when you're relying on quick and you're relying on let's say uh armchat or maybe even asking for help i from crg and things like that that there actually is some architectural work to do there whether that ends up in any in any document or not james oh thank you spencer for working on this um i see a huge amount of value in our maybe even making in a more generic way or the payload formats that doesn't mean we need to go through and retroactively handle all the payload formats that have ever existed uh but definitely a way to decouple rtp uh payload formats from rtp itself so that it could be used in other transport protocols in the future would be very interesting and i think would add an awful lot of value to uh this work and like elsewhere cool thank uh thank you i think i'm hearing a suggestion not necessarily just from james from these questions about whether you know whether we're talking about uh a document like the one that stefan described which basically profiles and says um if you're doing this over quick um here's what you you know here's what you should do here's what you should get from someplace else um and things like that because you know i've got other issues uh about am i doing feedback from rtcp from uh quick or from something that's not either one of those or for both uh i don't think i don't think i've listed that possibility so uh yeah um this has been very helpful and i feel good about only putting up a slide for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "one issue thank you how close am i to being over time um rather but we have lots of time it's okay oh i mean i've only got one slide okay you put up the what happens next yeah okay yeah so you do what happens next yeah um is this a um you're telling me i should have done two slides okay yeah um but um i'm going to hold like i say as i said previously uh collecting answers and um collecting questions from at various places and then working on answers to the questions and updating the sdp draft it sounds like either what i or other people or i and other people would be doing would be starting to think about the pro the rtp profile for rtp over quick um did i get that wrong no hi steph i i i stopped wondering we we have actually an i think a reasonably mature thing they're from from york and and his his student over there right um for rtp over quick that thing that thing describes what's on the wire right it should probably add a little bit a few section um the following parts of the of rfc 3550 are irrelevant don't read them ignore them if your library has them comment them out and then comes the long list and then we're already done i think maybe that's i don't know what what is going on with that draft um they didn't have anything to say about it at this cycle but i think they said they'd hope to have something again by the next one so yeah we yeah well i have to talk to you about that what you're said in the chat that it's active so yeah what i would what i what i thought was going on was basically that they had"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "done their version one or version whatever it is of their draft it had been focused more on the performance you know and performance results of running over quick with two different congestion controllers active and so i think they've been focused on that at least some of our time they are academics they have to write papers and so yeah but still i think i think i think rather than having yet another draft that ultimately will have to be merged into it i think we should just talk to you or get some point and see whether we can do something there cool all right uh bernard hello um just had one comment which is that i think york's draft is focused on quick datagrams uh most of what i'm seeing out there in the wild is actually using a quick stream per message so that they are avoiding their knack mechanism so that that is one thing that is not covered by that breath and and the sense that i have from talking to people here and in previous versions of places like here is that there are reasons to do streams and there are reasons to do datagrams and um it's not like we have to fight over which one to put in we just have to describe both of them right jumping don't want to jump the cube but it's actually it's actually a very good reason to do both in the same system right whenever you have layering you want datagrams for the enhancement layers and possible the stream for the base cool sounds like we're getting closer to doing the right thing that always makes me happy hope so anybody else i don't so just that um george just comments in the chat that his draft is active and when you said that he's just only doing datagrams and not streams he said not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "yet smiley so so it sounds like york is continuing to work on his drafts so that's good excellent excellent going forward we'll have more to talk about excellent um thank you and i think that i think that's everything that i know on friday morning thank you all for your help all right next up is cullen with game moves okay wow i didn't realize we're out when already okay um so what i'm going to talk a little bit about here is taking and i'm getting quite a bit of feedback from the room i don't know if there's a way to reduce the mic gain or something but uh i'm going to be talking about the idea of taking some data around uh game moves in game state and putting them into rtp so next slide please um does that help does that help on the feedback i think i think my um medical client had hadn't gotten unmuted i hadn't gotten them unmuted so okay it's better now i'll keep talking yeah it's way better thank you so sorry um no no worries at all okay so uh goals here is more and more we're getting large systems where people are doing these multiplayer games or applications like metaverse type things here some of these other systems where you're trying to take the state of game objects or the state of user interface things and circulate them over over various things obviously uh low latency is critical to this uh large scale is you know scale out is critical in some applications not others uh and there's many cases where you do want to synchronize it with other audio or video that might have to do with the application or the game uh there are some frameworks for doing this out there there's unity's udp there's nvidia's omniverse there's there's others around that you can be used with third-party service but when we do measurements of those uh they're they're often uh have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "latencies higher in fact than than the better rtp conferencing systems that we see out there that have you know well-designed backbones multiple pops around the world those types of things so next time so the specific use case that i'm concerned about and driving this for is this thing called webex hologram i'm not going to talk about it much but we're displaying a hologram and a user interface conference and people are manipulating 3d objects and we need to pick those up and grab them and move them around but lots of other people have other use cases and this is a very similar use case to um what we're seeing with a bunch of people are doing three-day 3-d meetings with avatars of various forms uh next step so a classical piece of data that you want to use from this is you might think well there's nothing in common between these different apps but it turns out there is an incredible amount of comment there's an incredible number of things where all you want to do is give the location a particular time and velocity for net code type usages of a given object there's also things like a hand so tons of these ar vr systems come up with you know a hand controller in them and microsoft makes this mixed reality toolkit that's used in tons of the headsets not just microsoft's but everybody's headsets it's a very popular open source library and it encodes the join angles in the hands and even people who don't use this library end up inevitably encoding the joint angles in the hands which are more or less fixed by the autonomy the anatomy the bones in our hands so you know that's a common thing for example and so what we're proposing here is like one of the the objects that you can send inside these rtp packets is the the the geometry of your hand bones and the rate of change of them so you can send them to the far side the far side can chill the hand can show can interpolate the hand forward in in motion in time a little bit so you don't have to send these instantly so you have some delay and some of the other side next slide okay so what the solution looks like is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "um yeah you know this is a schema based encoding uh where you know the scheme ahead of time it's not like something like json where you can pull it out all the things because you generally you only use it in ways where you know what the objects are and understand them it's extensible with tagline values it's binary encoded it's very much designed to allow people to make it easily extensible to build their own objects and register them and use them for whatever use cases they have and it's also uh it's really hard to keep your training plot when you're hearing yourself talk with the echo of my apologies um you know it's it's pretty much a cut yeah i saw that thanks um so that's the general form of the solution next slide uh the current draft look it needs a i mean i wrote this draft to give you enough of a flavor to understand what it is you could probably implement it from this there's lots of the normal stuff that you need as you know the framework templates for fully specifying you know for all the diana registry stuff that's all missing but you know how we do that okay i mean the gist of what this structure would really be is is largely in there there's an open source implementation people can go play with they want we have some people using this it's you know it's it's still very early stage that's where where it is today and my last slide so what i you know i would like to move this forward uh somewhere and i need to move it forward relatively quickly this isn't a five-year plan i mean there's a lot of people trying to work on how they can standardize various things and make things interoperable between various versions of somebody might be on metaverse or games or all these things uh if this is the right place to do it it's great i don't think it slows down in any way any other ongoing work going on this working group or anything like this is probably largely a slightly different set of people they're interested in it but does take some expertise in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "the review of how this fits on top of rtp and all of those types of things um so i don't want to be you know here a year from now still asking whether this is the right place to do it i'd rather just get a you know if you think this is if you really wish this would go away and never come back please tell me if we want to do it please tell me i don't even care i just want to have a concrete way to move forward um so with that let me stop taking any questions about about it and then about what we should do with it and how we should go forward from here thanks so um stephanie looks like you're first on thecube stefan wenger uh are you aware what's going on in mpeg with the haptic stuff yeah yeah i've been watching that uh a little bit it it seems uh somewhat related but i may not know enough about it maybe some of that interface with this i think some of that is quite different and it's really focused on the input of controllers more than the state of objects in a game uh where there might be multiple different ones with all different with a completely different list of factors in it but it's it's definitely related yeah um so my my general observation is that uh while the idf had isolated examples where it did good work on what i would call a codec [Music] it also had examples where they didn't do good work there and this looks at least in part a little bit like a codec or representation there's also stuff going on over uh in what these graphics guys uh what what are they called um but it will come back in in in a second you know where intel and nvidia and those guys hang out and play so so there is there are activities going on in this field this is not classic protocol design so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "i mean it's pretty classic protocol design i mean it's certainly going on lots of different places but i mean and it is definitely a codec for game state no question about it right so so so think about whether whether whether you want to go into a protocol group with it with such a project or rather go somewhere else with it i am so us um i i i'm coming from an implementation experience uh on this one and trying to see why something like the rtp would make sense and trying to provide an explanation if it does not make sense i'm happy with that but one thing what i've seen we've seen is that most of these game moves are need to get they tie very closely in terms of synchronization with the audio and video that's happening um uh as part of the game or as part of the like you know then the omnibus kind of multiverse kind of things and and rtp kind of provides that time synchronization point across multiple streams that's happening naturally and having uh this uh all along the plane along the same lines of audio and video as another data stream would uh naturally fit in there and that that might be one reason i why i would think it's in the scope of 50 core uh but i think it's a for the group to decide but that would be my consideration my view on this one sergio hi hello so i definitely think that having this kind of podcast specifies is a good thing i mean i'm completely okay with trying to move this forward but i'm not sure if if this should be something that is carried over rtp or if we could do it in in data channels because for example if you are then integrated into webrtc it will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "require us to expose a lot of apis for all the different protocols in in the in the browser's api in order to use it so i'm not sure if you have a thought of define it something that it is data data channel based for example similar to what the t140 has done to specify the t140 over data channels because for example this is something that i have been also considering to do a for sending live customize with the web bt over data channels obviously there is the issue about how to synchronize the and the data channels and the rtp and the rtp data but i think that if we could or some of this is information is is a we need to to it has to be in real time and not or for example game moves they don't have to be synchronized with the video because they have to be processed and consume as as soon as they are received they don't really require much synchronization with the with the video and and but obviously it's just thinking about the if what do you think about sending this in data channel instead of of rtp but the idea of having something specified for these spaces is is a very good idea i mean i i had thought a little bit about the issue of how this maps into browsers and i actually hadn't been like okay well this will probably gateway over data channels or whatever however we do rtp over web transports type thing was was my thinking but the problem uh the problem with just directly using data channels is that most of large distribution systems that scale out these whole networks that give you the whole latency like a low latency worldwide they're they're not the most of them are not using uh webrtc around it they're gatewaying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "from webrtc to classic rtp moving it around in rtp and then maybe it's webrtc out the far end again so you know i mean that'd be true of you know webex zoom microsoft teams you know list goes on and i realize there's ones that aren't like that but so that wasn't a really very good deployability option just because the build out of the rtp architecture i wanted to be able to leverage that i couldn't leverage that if i put it over data channels um though i definitely was concerned about like well how does what what does this mean for a client running on a browser though many of the um you know mini browser input many things that run on a browser the implement you know an implementation of a game that runs on a browser that you can join from a browser and you can join another way probably have gatewaying of different protocols in the back anyway so i imagine that probably wouldn't be that big a deal but that sort of you know my thought was a combination between that and and web transport um all right donald trump's um i guess mostly as an individual i feel like um this group we have the expertise to do things like okay this is how you get it there you know you know reliably and synchronized with audio and video and you know all that good stuff i don't feel like we have a lot of expertise in knowing these are the correct this is the correct description of the object state and the game moves and all that and so my inclination would be to say um i mean if there's another venue that can say this is the information we want to send and then this group would say this is how you send it sort of very much in the classic codec versus payload format split that would probably probably be the cleanest you know the sort of the best um use of this group's expertise i like i said i don't feel like we i mean if you can get people to have that expertise and have them come here i guess it's as good as anything else we could provide a forum but i don't really feel like this is our classic expertise so if there were somewhere else that could give that you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "know the could define the kodak if you will that would probably that would make me more comfortable but if that doesn't exist we probably could provide a forum if we had to so um so john i'm going to reply to this a little bit i at some level 100 agree with you right but just to follow how it's what it's like to bring new work to the itf of course right i request a time in the dispatch working group to talk about that issue and see if where we should dispatch this kodak work and they're like no we're not even going to give you agenda time this is in the scope of abt core and it's like okay that doesn't quite make sense but okay but the reality is there's nowhere at ietf that is does have that and we have as good a lock bringing it to a group that happens to have an email list called avt as any other email list like like you know what we're going to be able to do to bring that in or out doesn't doesn't change in any way um so i mean i hear you i don't know what to do but i feel a little bit like you know bring me a rock is the standard answer at itf yeah i mean i think yeah i mean so bro rowan's comment is if you can get the domain experts here who know this stuff and they can do good review then i guess we can do it but um i want to make sure that i i don't i i don't i personally would not have the expertise to know whether what we're doing whether the descriptions of game moves is correct or not so yeah yeah no um mo uh mozinati i i agree with uh with stefan and jonathan that there definitely needs to be a split between the elementary stream uh and that should hopefully be defined first and then the rtv payload format for it but i think that this that the hope i think was that this was simple enough and generic enough that it it didn't need an entire working group or other sdo for the codec piece that we're not trying to define a very you know bit tight codec of you know large volume data um you know if there was if we're trying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:01",
    "text": "to describe entire you know entire worlds absolutely this should go to some other you know sdo that's you know creating you know world point cloud compression and things like that but i think the hope here is that this is something simple that's you know uh conveying low low rate data you know low volume data not describing entire worlds but just a few vertices can we do something like that simply in a generic rtp payload format without a really big elementary stream codec document and another sdo i think that's the hope here and if if people are on board with doing something simple like that um i think it'd be a relatively quick effort and if somebody wants something much more complex they they're welcome to go to you know mpeg or ao media or somewhere else who have active bodies working on things like this like game world descriptions 3d world descriptions and things like that i don't think that's what this draft is asking for anything that complex bernard yeah i think one argument for doing in any abt core is i've been besieged by questions about exactly this kind of thing cullen and people wanted to do it at all we're rtp because of the timing and everything the next question they said is oh i can't do it in webrtc so i have to use the data channel i don't really want to but that's all that's available to me so the kind of people who are doing this stuff they are interested in webrtc and they are interested in rtp so if you know it's worth a try to get them in here because otherwise they're just going to bother me and i'd rather have them come here and talk to a bunch of other people and just continually uh you know ask me how why this isn't supported well in our in webrtc so you know give it a try uh you can always failure is always an option but um i can't think of any place better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "like i can't think of any place where i would tell those people to go that's better than here let me put it that way so stefan wenger i have two things that are replies one is to say show about um you have to send the stuff as quickly as you can um potentially unsynchronized in transcend where i work now is is a pretty big game company right and we look into this type of stuff uh a little bit also and um as soon as you are getting away from from the most trivial proof of concept implementations time synchronization is perhaps the most critical and the most important part of of the whole story yeah not only for multi-user games for everything so a protocol that has an inherent understanding of time is required there and that suggests to me that rtp is actually the right transport never mind where that payload is defined so and the other was regarding to those forks who say um let's do something quick and dirty here you know i'm i'm not objecting but quick and dirty projects have a tendency to to mushroom out of first in the itf nothing is quick that's that's number one right you know i i remember when we when webrtc was booted yeah let's do that in a year we have it right and 10 years later we had it finally it's the itf is the wrong organization to do something quick that's number one but even if it were a good organization um there will be always those guys who strive for perfection and add use cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "and that whole thing will mushroom out of control in an in an organization that's really not that well prepared to deal with it right and so unless you have an a a group of companies a group of organization a core group who who goes hell-bent in exactly one direction without leaving everyone else behind like the opus guys did right when you have that and you can't keep it focused maybe but as a single company thing i wouldn't i wouldn't suggest to do this here i really wouldn't and you know if you do it have a buff have a working group just just just do it it that will not take that much more time thank you colin i see you asking to share slides are you trying to speak or are you uh i i'm i'm trying to speak and i can't figure out which button um so i think um [Music] being slightly flipped and following on from stefan's comment uh you can have fast or you can have consensus based and pick one um i i think uh what i came up to say i think jonathan has this this right uh you know if we can bring the domain experts understand the data model uh into this group that then i think adt core is an entirely reasonable place to do this work um and that this seems like something which is uh perfectly reasonable to do it over rtp and it seems to me no more complex than some of the other formats we've done uh and i think looking back to some of the the midi payload formats or some of the conversational media for hearing impaired users for example they were both a little bit outside the core expertise of the group and we brought in people who understood those formats and we definitely defined"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "how they work over rtp how they work over atp uh and i think we can do the same here so so this this seems like a perfectly reasonable home for the work uh and i would suggest whatever you do don't do a buff because you'll be stuck for a decade if you do uh yeah i know i'm i'm with you on that and look i will try and bring that together but like realize that a large portion of the use cases from this what they need to send is a single location and the rate of change of the location and the object id that is that is like the 90 use case so i mean we can understand that pretty easily but i mean like i get everybody's point on bringing in the experts the problem is is unless you start something this is one of those ones where like why would they come here like unless we're doing something in this space they're not going to come this is one of those you know chicken and egg problems on getting work new work moving forward um and you know as ted put it i mean it's going to be a little dirty that's fine [Music] sue us you keep going in and out of the queue did you want to talk or are you being indecisive just trying to try some controls here but one thing i really wanted to say here is that uh going back to most point um well if if you're asking something uh as simple as uh some kind of a tlv based values uh and we want to leverage uh what rtp provides for and payload uh that's that's defined somehow uh but it provides all those measurements to kind of synchronize in in in a way with other streams that are going with rtp i i i strongly think it should be taken by every core and on on on exactly what goes in that uh like it's like sending text or rtp right it does not really uh need a lot of expertise to come come and figure out what goes in the text um if it if it helps i would i would suggest that the draft should basically say what this does not do to kind of not have the kind of the ball the entire"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:01",
    "text": "ocean uh kind of thing and be very specific on what's doing and have at least a way to come and present you know what this actually stored uh or what's been actually being sent that way it might be much easier for people to just think you know instance think of the game moves and everything about the game we know you're not talking about everything about the game but we're just talking about these three things and that way it might make the entire group to decide uh this does not require that much of expertise so probably that's that's one one thing i would like to provide some feedback to colleen max magnus piston uh yeah sorry colin about i mean i think my comment was i just comment on the dispatch list about its suitability for rtp and then i should have said that yes the format question is probably should have been dispatched um but yeah it still remains this question what's the most appropriate when you're here etc and i think anything here will it's going to require some reshortering somewhere anyway i don't think this requires any recharging in avt to be to do this it's hits well with it's like it's much less of an issue than many other things we've done in here so uh okay um no i mean look you know this charter better than anyone i might have wrote in it but i've probably forgotten it that's fair too but i mean like yeah um this is spencer dawkins and uh i may be wrong about this but it sounds like we're trying to figure out where is the right place to send something to figure out where the right place to send it is and that's not a recipe for ietf wins"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "also it's not a problem that abt core can solve but it's not a recipe for itf when well i mean the way we got the real-time tax people to come and participate is by saying we were doing it and putting a straw man on the table right and they did not give us the time of day until we did that right and then we ended up with some protocols out of that um which are now mandated by law in some places um so i mean i you know it's it's one of these things like it's really easy to just say i mean it's it's really hard to figure out how how you bring new work forward i guess one thing that i will say about this is the odds of this you know failure is an option here the odds of this causing any harm to the internet is absolutely zero right this is not you know this isn't going to break our architecture this isn't you know it's not the spin bit god forbid um you know it's a pretty simple thing we could do something no one cares whether the draft was marked experimental informational bcp whatever right it's just like hey is there going to be some work happening none of these people care in the slightest what the status level is um you know is there a way to move it forward and i mean yeah we could have had this discussion in dispatch but it would have been the same people at the mic saying the same thing and yeah we all wish we could get a whole bunch of the experts in here to do it but um i guess the question is how are we going to get to that and uh you know if the answer is go form a bunch of group of companies together this is not going to happen at itf it's going to happen in external codes already uh sergio yep i think that there are two different uh aspects of this proposal one is to define protocol to create this this game data or synchronization or whatever we want and then how to transfer that data our rtp obviously the transcription that we are so that it is within this charter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "i'm not going to i'm not not sure if it is in the just defining the protocol itself is within this charter or not but it is something that it would be interesting for me for the protocols because it seems that there is no real a very good place to do it everywhere else so and and i think that it would be good if we could define the two things uh also a protocol that we could use not only in rtp but in other transports for example i want to say quick to name one and then define also how to to transport that in a synchronized way with other rtp data i'm struggling to see why this is controversial um you know it it's if we're going to do that over rtp it's my tp payload format which is what this group does um we need the people with the domain expertise but uh yeah that is the same for every other codec or every other payload form that we've done in the history of this group over the last 20 25 years as cullen says there is no architectural harm if we get this wrong it's just yet another payload format that people don't use so this seems straightforward all right it sounds like there is at least rough consensus would be in scope of this group um are we at the point where we actually want to do a call for adoption or we want to just say um we're open to it and colin should keep it should iterate something that she thinks is the you know who that do you think would be a good thing to call for adoption bernard you want to go first yeah i um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "i i don't call for adoption might be useful because it it is basically uh you can maybe try to get the people who would work on it to come and actually answer the call for adoption you could say hey there's a call for adoption what do you think so it's it's a way of getting input so stefan wenger the classic question at this point in most working groups is how many people have read the draft let's ask that how many people okay fair enough let's see all right i'll do a poll no we're gonna go yeah that's pretty impressive for this group yeah that's more than most our working group drafts yeah exactly so that's a good sign um so yeah so that's a good sign to us my input and is thinking about getting more people involved would be a nice way to get to get adopted and also it provides authors um a kind of an um a way to clear direction to move forward as well mozinati uh i think uh stefan would be very interesting and useful if you could get uh someone at tencent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "uh to get feedback about about the uh call for adoption if if a game company is not interested in this it would be it would be interesting to know why not and what other venues they would prefer to work yes in impact for very large complex things but for something simple just like you know hand or head locations all right so it sounds like um probably bernard and i should do a call for an option on this because it sounds like people are do you think it's in scope for the group okay and thank you and look also on my last slide was like looking for input co-authors uh work with other things obviously you're trying to build a community around this so anything you can do to help uh point people this direction and connect me up with people that's what we want to do yeah i mean one thing we could do is we could have a call for adoption a little bit longer than usual and then forward it to have people forward it to places that might be interested i have no idea what those are but we can figure it out sounds good all right and now we have one minute to talk about uh short tags i guess short time for short tags i don't think that would happen but uh no sorry but um i'll i'll i'll send the stuff on short stacked to the list and maybe we can have another call on that at some point i i mean actually maybe would i guess the only question here would there be a group of people interested in having uh you know a little not even an intern meeting but uh a phone call sometime on short tags uh going forward but yeah it's also on magnus if you could forward that the link to that paper you wrote about why just doing short gcm is not good that would be helpful"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "all right um yeah okay so thank you everybody um and uh yeah so i mean obviously we need to do something other than just you know something that isn't broken by magnus's draft but presumably there's other cryptography we could do so um colin sent the link to that in the chat probably which i'll send it to the mailing list just so it's okay so i guess um probably bernard and i should try to arrange a short tags call or interim or whatever however we want to do it uh we'll figure that out yeah uh yeah i think we'll we'll uh take that to the list and we're almost we're almost out of time i think we are back out of time so thank you everybody um and uh we'll figure out if we need to do any interims or we'll see you in philadelphia and everybody have a good rest of the itf such as this bye okay thank you everybody send them to send us the minutes i am in the process wonderful on the way great thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:01",
    "text": "100 if you look up but i think it's an environment"
  }
]
