[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:38",
    "text": "if you guys take their seats were get started early hello everybody we\u0027re starting so you are in seaboard what can group meeting right now so that\u0027s not where you want to be please you\u0027re aware of that so today we have an acting chair Matt Joe cannot be here so thank you Matt you have the meaning least link the job and the aether pod four minutes so we\u0027re looking for volunteers take minutes anybody okay great police taking minutes thank you Paul first of all the note well as you\u0027re all the way you\u0027re being recorded and this is a IDF contribution and you\u0027re supposed to follow the rules defining these two RC so yeah I mean if they\u0027re taken this meeting is recorded and your presence is logged and I\u0027m gonna start passing the blue those sheets yes and also we need the jabber scribe anybody else chopper Michael I will interior yeah meet Eko you can get me Tico the okay Michael the other Michael thanks so yeah just to remind you that we have a working group github right now it contains the sea boar and CDL documents as well as other extensions documents the authors are welcome to put the draft there if they want but again significant discussion has to go to the main list this is the agenda for today so after this introduction custom will present the status for the Seaboard draft and Carsten and Hank we\u0027ll talk about CDL again caspin for the the array tags document which is in the Charter and then after that the next two documents are not in the Charter and this is time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:40",
    "text": "tags and support act for seaport templates for okay so another tag will be presented and after that wrap up and we only have time in ten minutes of free time between all this so we try to be either faster or follow this timeline I need anything to say about the agenda anything to add I think Sean will add something at at the end of the meeting and that\u0027s it custom okay okay thank you so we wanted to minimize the amount of swapping so yeah kind of cut we need to lead those slots but that of course doesn\u0027t mean that that my coffers won\u0027t run to the microphone and fix what I said so so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:42",
    "text": "Hank is already very close to the microphone okay so the first one is specification status and before I get to that I just want to relate an impression just very subjective impression Ari and I ran a workshop over the weekend about semantics and hypermedia interoperability for IOT we\u0027re at some age silence meetings silence organizations I do but okay so this is not good audio quality how do I do this I need a space on it that keeps constant distance from my face so we had some 8/7 organization there and it was interesting to see that of course everyone has still some xml somewhere most everyone is using json for all new stuff and it\u0027s interesting to see that many of them then actually interchange see both so i think we have some acceptance at least in these standards development organizations that doesn\u0027t mean that you\u0027re right switch at home already user SIBO but at least the science organizations seem seem to have gotten the message and one interesting other observation here is that a lot of these send receiver over the wire but actually use JSON tools for doing all their work so they\u0027re using formats like swagger - which is defined for JSON and yeah that may be a hint that we should be doing some some work in this space true okay and there\u0027s also JSON schema India and it was interesting to hear that at least some of the organizations are now moving away from that so what do we have to do to get the Seaboard specification to internet standard that\u0027s the name of this age according to 64 RFC 64 Chen so first of all we cannot just move the existing specification with the existing RFC number 2 internet standard we because we have have errata actually those errata are in the explanatory text there\u0027s nothing really knowledge if that is affected by by the writer so if you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:44",
    "text": "read sixty four ten we are kind of killya here because the errata are just bad examples but yeah let\u0027s fix that and and fix another few things as well so that is already done in the current working group our draft people do tell us that the text in some places is not so good so we get input about opportunities for Ettore improvement let\u0027s use those opportunities there also are some violations of the principle of least surprise and we may want to do something on the editorial front there as well explain how this is different from what people might be reading out of the text and and yeah maybe why that is so then we probably do want to revisit the INR considerations in 2013 we said let\u0027s have very very liberal INR consideration so everybody can just go ahead and register something and I\u0027m not proposing to change this completely but we made might may want to be a bit more conservative with the spaces we have and then finally we have to generate an actual document the request for reclassification and obviously 64 10 tells us what what\u0027s in there so let\u0027s talk about the the the one thing that we I think we really have to decide and that that doesn\u0027t have a clear-cut answer so right now we have two registries in NC book one is the Seaboard tags with a registry and one is the simple various registry now the simple values registry hasn\u0027t actually been checked by by other bodies over other documents at all so right now we are still in the original state that 70 49 left I have some sides at the end if I get to them where I could show how that might change so we may not complete want to completely ignore that although we don\u0027t have any emergency there at the moment on the tank side in the tags registry we already were careful with the good tags checks that can represent it in one bite so these have standards action as registration policy but we have already consumed fifty percent of them and for a document that is four years old and it\u0027s supposed to last a little bit longer than four more years that that is kind of concerning but again we have standard action there so we maybe we just want to write a little bit more what we expect the isg to do here when reviewing consuming another one of those tags now we also have a almost as good range "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:45",
    "text": "which is larger a too much tag a tag with 1 byte header and one byte additional information and of that pace we have a two point two percent taken but we have several documents there which each another 10% in one bite so we may want to think about there some more but also this is specification required so if Joe Sixpack comes along and says I have this specification and that needs 193 tags in that space and Joe Sixpack has a specification they will get the space so maybe we want to do something about this base because to keep this space here clear we have to have control over this space and finally we have a lot of space of which can are shaking and not worry about about this part so what could we do we could move the too much eggs and maybe why we do this the to bite range for simple to expert review which is one notch up from certification required both actually require an expert review because if Joe Sixpack comes and says I have a specification which is that tweet which I wrote five minutes ago we are probably not going to accept that as a specification we need an expert to make that decision so we are already doing a little bit of pushback in that space but we can only do so much so going to expert with you with some clear guidelines what needs to be fulfilled so so some of the space that can be used that would be one way how so this is just a strawman of what might be in those gadgets and we also can read retrospectively think about our own allocation so for instance we gave you two IDs a to budge check now user IDs are 16 bytes so once they\u0027re justified I think so and one other thing we may want to do it\u0027s not supported by the current IANA registration guidelines 8216 is that the right number just came out again we might want to put in a circuit breaker which means when we reach 50% usage of a space we actually change the guidelines by which the expert operates and what we also might want to do just just as we need the second range to keep the first range clear we might keep some of the third range a little bit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:46",
    "text": "through that range to move things over from the second wrench like Michael Richardson I think if you want to put the circuit breaker in you need to redefine the second half of the space do you have an expert review at different criteria so you just have to expert criteria rate ranges and there you\u0027re done yeah yes now one thing is sometimes it\u0027s a good idea to allocate a contiguous range and you may want to allocate a contiguous range in a different space let\u0027s think that of that good part okay so this is something that has to be decided and and thank you for the input to that so we probably want to discuss this a little bit more on the mailing list and generate some text proposals for that back to through the procedure RFC 64 10 kids us we have to have five things to get a reclassification request through one we need to independent of interoperating implementations with widespread deployment and successful operational experience so we need to generate the pointers to those so there are implementations lots more than two independent ones there is some initial operational experience but yeah we have we have to see when exactly do we reach the Thresher that we want to reach there and so widespread is an interesting term because much but doesn\u0027t necessarily mean that you have to have a billion customers but in the niche we are occupying we want to have widespread deployment or we couldn\u0027t do something like a registration protocol to internet Senate because only 20 people run this protocol even the second thing is you know errata as I said we are going to have that in the new version the third thing is no unused features that greatly increase implementation complexity I would go one beyond that and because the spec is fundamentally pretty simple maybe we should look out whether we have any unused features and number four if there are patent claims we have to show that the licensing process works but up to now there has been no IPR disclosure and if there is one then I would point to her an RFC from 1978 that was approximately the same things so that will be difficult but yeah people patent interesting things so it might happen at any time so for now I think we have to focus on these two items here let\u0027s talk "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:48",
    "text": "about unused features for a second the best way to check for unused features is actually to do an implementation matrix that looks a bit like this maybe so we take a couple of implementations maybe yeah we choose those wisely I don\u0027t know which ones they are and I\u0027m just just put some something in there on this side and then we fill in which of the features that the document has have been implemented there and also probably for us it\u0027s pretty interesting whether they actually interoperate so let\u0027s find that out even though that the old 64 10 no longer requires you to demonstrate that they say why deployment is demonstration of interoperability but let\u0027s find that out as a work that is done proposing so what what are the rows in this table what are the features how do you enumerate the features of SIBO I made a very rough change here in the syllabus wiki and we probably should look at that if it\u0027s this really the list of features or do we want to be more fine-grained so for instance and just enumerating the tags here maybe a tag has two features in it but that\u0027s so comments on on this list would be useful and then we should just start filling in the columns so who in this room actually has an implementation of Seba that\u0027s always the problem at the IGF the implementers don\u0027t coming the fan has half an implementation in Whitesburg de Provence is that in widespread deployment yeah so I think right now the one where the widest deployment is tiny sea but there\u0027s also the node C bog implementation Joe has also an implementation of the chapter Joe has an implementation yeah that\u0027s notable or does he have another one another one yeah that\u0027s nancy-boy okay so it\u0027s sometimes it\u0027s a bit hard to find out who actually uses what because this is currently often still in products that are used in internal position so let\u0027s try to find out little bit more about those yes what does ipfs us was the question could you go to the microphone please we cannot hear you and say your name Thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:55",
    "text": "your implementations the newest version of our ipfs uses C bar and it\u0027s pretty widely deployed yeah so let\u0027s find out which implementations are used it\u0027s a very good input thank you and that\u0027s also true for other protocols so if I only could Romero names so when we will we will see why deployment of web packages Jeffrey and you have to go to the microphone to answer that question okay good okay so the result of that list should be or could be a list of tags where we think well it\u0027s kind of a key that we put them in 1749 but maybe they do not fulfil that part of 64 10 requirements they talk about widespread deployments and they do increase implementation complexity that\u0027s the other part of the 64 10 and then we could move those over to separate reduction I mean these are registered tags so they are not going away but they may might not be part of the Internet Center right now I\u0027m not sure we will find any of any tag that does this but I think we should make an effort to answer that question whether that would be okay alexei looks unhappy okay good so one other thing we could do in in such a document just as a random idea there are some tags that have been registered by people somewhere with specifications somewhere that actually are pretty fundamental so we might go ahead and collect these tags in a document to make the specifications that are scattered all over the internet more accessible so people will find those tags and and not get into a situation where they reinvent them because they are not lining that so that might be another reason to start a PS proposed energy level tags document okay just an idea now I think I covered that so we just go on the lookout for widespread invitations quiet deployment and try to find what\u0027s Ebola is India so yeah but let me repeat my call to action please have a look at this wiki page I think maybe the first step to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:57",
    "text": "fill up this implementation matrix would be to define which one which implementations are the most employed so I think that\u0027s not at least it\u0027s not very clear to me I don\u0027t know if if anybody I think that would be a good discussion in the main list and once that\u0027s defined like what are the columns then we can ask what people opinion about what do you say Alex yeah just sort of clarification case it\u0027s not clear for any feature you need to have two independent implementations they don\u0027t have to be the same tool for every feature right right so you know if you have four or five which you think are relatively widespread and between them they cover all the features with at least two for each feature that\u0027s good enough right that is the title makes it slightly easier to actually find what so there are no unused features that greatly increase implementation complexity so things that are just another line of code we don\u0027t have to check for that this happened so that was my question for Alexi is we have all of these tags that are optional and so long as defined we don\u0027t know if they\u0027re going to be used in data in there does that count do we have to show uses of the tags or are those considered - those come under the that they did not increase so you\u0027re saying that you might potentially have tags that nobody have implemented but they don\u0027t increase complexity so you want to keep them on the dock I don\u0027t have weeks that we don\u0027t know if somebody has implemented because they said we want we want this as a as an ability to tag things but they didn\u0027t say where and we don\u0027t have their datasets so but yet by the end of next week we won\u0027t have any tag that isn\u0027t implemented because I can implement the rest of the tags in an afternoon that\u0027s not the problem the problems do we have deployment experience with that yeah I need to look this up I suggest fill in the table and see where the gaps where the risks points are and then decide whether they\u0027re small unused features do they increase complexity or not whether you want to them and a separate document or not and then use so just to give one potential example and Paul will hate me for that there is a tag from my messages now what does it even mean to implement that if you have to implement mine to implement that check or do you just have to hand my message to an application Michael Richardson channeling Sean Leonard from the Jag jabber room asks what does implementation mean and maybe you just said that because you can tag "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:58",
    "text": "anything with anything in Seaboard does it have to validate reject you non-conforming data so this is like the question but what do you have to implement in the first place to be conforming with the Senate and hopefully we don\u0027t have to define confluency because it\u0027s really difficult to say that so any implementation can just hand a tag that it finds together with the binary data that it found up to the application and that\u0027s a way of implementing it but that\u0027s maybe not what it was meant you so let\u0027s see whether we find a little bit more implementation there so I would say let\u0027s go with what Alexei has said and also start mailing the mailing list about the tags issue and I was curious about what do you think a timeline is for this we probably should be done by the end of September with that should not take more than two months to collect the information but because it\u0027s really just collecting information okay we might find something after that time quick change let\u0027s aim for an update buddy okay thank you okay and of course the other thing I don\u0027t have a slide for here is please do indicate those opportunities for editorial improvement that that other slide talking about so if you find some text that you think could be improved just type into the github page a comment just make sure that this is captured and and we know you don\u0027t like it or you have a better wording and and we can think about good ways to it when are we done yeah we can move forward okay so the next item yes yes are there any questions on this presentation yeah let\u0027s expose this argument I think it\u0027s important to think about this even if the the enemy side of the thinking is no action the the Seaboard document currently does not say a lot about what the Unicode is you find in its utf-8 strengths it\u0027s very very clear that the utf-8 has to be utf-8 but it is not talking about non characters and things like that so yeah I think this is about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:02",
    "text": "the right level of specification here but people may have different ideas about that so it would be good to hear those thank you let\u0027s yeah any other questions comments yeah otherwise take it to the list and let\u0027s go run right now okay so sweet idea this document is in excuse me it\u0027s such an adoption call in a confirmation call for the adoption decision we made in Chicago the confirmation happened a little bit later so you still have two days to respond to this confirmation call so far nobody has responded to it which means the in room consensus stance so bye-bye first day morning I hope we have a group dark energy so what what\u0027s the status of the document do you always think it\u0027s ready for when group adoption we talked about that in Chicago so the objective is to be referenceable from standards fake documents so that they can write their data definitions in CD DL and don\u0027t have to copy them over to to a fall off stylized English as well so normative text can use City idea and there are two ways of doing that one is going first NF strike the other one is going for informational and getting some some down roof variants there to me it looks a bit more straightforward to go first and it\u0027s tricky but I don\u0027t really have an opinion so I let the ABS and other people who who know about process decide that it\u0027s okay for everybody else that was alexei saying standards track so the second thing that that happened recently is we had a discussion in Chicago and on the mailing list on the name or the name also is the name of open source license that everybody hates so it\u0027s kind of weird to have a name where we know everybody hates it in a different context but that also is an advantage because this means this name is really not used for anything else because nobody wants to talk so when you google CDL and you get nine references to that Sun license and then you actually get the language so yeah so we I think it\u0027s a good idea to stay with that initialism because people already know it out the end few people know what it actually stands for and it originally stood for a seaboard data definition language and the idea was to maybe make it concise data definition "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "language one reason for that is that the RFC editor will change the title of the document to concise binary object representation parentheses CD C bar or parenthesis data different language and you will no longer understand what the title is referring to and the other thing is well it actually works for Jason too so maybe it\u0027s confusing to have a title that only lists C so that\u0027s where we are with a on that Francesca noticed chair just changed the Seaboard to concise if I can quote you on the Google argument I think that the first like you sorta did the other right now is AC bar and I myself have looked for this document as CD DLC board when I ended up on the license of course so I don\u0027t know I I I liked it there but I understand I think Google will help you find it because the term seaboard does occur often enough in the document but let\u0027s do a little bit of googling to find out what what the effect of this okay so since Chicago we generated a - e level and there are very few technical changes in that - a level and actually I\u0027m quite proud that that everything that was - of 5c DDL specification still is a - 11 - detailed specification we changed a lot in that document but for some reason we have managed to say compatible and we didn\u0027t you try particularly hard so the one new thing here in - 11 is we have a way to actually unwrap a group and when you write a specification that is doing something like inheritance where you have one structure that has a certain number of elements field one and few - and you have another structure that has a few more elements you currently have to define a group which will then reference from the first structure and from the second structure and it\u0027s just a little bit easier to just reference the the whole data structure so you have to write much less to get this effect so the the the tilde character here is standing for threading in something so you\u0027re threading in the basic header "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:04",
    "text": "into the advanced header so these tools best vacations here are identical so that\u0027s the only thing we did and I actually have to confess it\u0027s not implemented yet I usually try to implement everything that\u0027s in the document in the CDA rule and this one I didn\u0027t get oh sorry about that but maybe by the end of next week so the other technical change is the ABN F was unnecessarily restrictive in some cases so you had to put things in parentheses in certain cases where it really wouldn\u0027t have been necessary to do that and this is mostly affecting the control operator which is the new name of the annotation operator but it shouldn\u0027t change existing specifications just makes the likelihood that you will get an error message when you write something a little bit lower we also made sure that all Unicode characters can be used now that\u0027s an interesting question does a B and F even allow us what to do what we did I think that that\u0027s currently a little bit under discussion but I hope that question is settled by the time we go to last call on this so why is that important well because people actually use constants that have mineski beyond SP characters in them and having to write them in hex it\u0027s just tedious yeah and the ABF changes the unwed operator we added an appendix that talks about use with JSON in the previous versions of the document we just took this for granted now turns out there are a few points where you want to look slightly closer and one of this is the the weirdness that jason has in its number system or maybe the weirdness that SIBO has in the numbers it\u0027s not and the problem is the witnesses are slightly different so it\u0027s worth looking at that look into this appendix and and find out whether it\u0027s good enough for your JSON applications now why didn\u0027t we go beyond that we have had a lot of discussions about how much CDL should talk about serialization details so if you specify JSON should you be able to say whenever you write an exponent into a floating point number don\u0027t use leading zeroes in that exponent that\u0027s the kind of representation constraint that people want to make and I don\u0027t think Cydia is the place where you should be doing that so yeah we might want to have some some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:09",
    "text": "global representation flags but I think this is fits with the rest of cydia reasonably well okay but the whole number system let let\u0027s make one walkthrough through that number system one other thing that was added is there is an appendix G that extends the diagnostic notation of 70 49 now one could argue this should go into a 70 forty nine this but then that would be a change and would diminish from the argument this is a stable document that becomes internet standard the counter-argument is we even say you are not using diagnostic notation for interchange so this is a change that by definition doesn\u0027t affect interchange but still I\u0027m not sure that that we should do that so that\u0027s why the extended diagnosed invitation right now is in this document but of course we could split it out into a separate document we think this muddies the waters with acidity because really it\u0027s about sea walls not about CDR it\u0027s a completely different syntax and people do get confused about extended diagnostic notation for SIBO and sea so yeah I don\u0027t know we can do that we can not do that would be interesting to hear what people think about that so the specific change here was we we have we not have quite a few documents that actually encode something in Siebel and then put that into a byte string which is then in turn happening in an enclosing Seaborg document in CD DL we have dot C bar and dot C bar sequence as a way to specify that so we are covered on the CD outside but the actual examples that make use of this I can\u0027t be very hard to read so this just provides a way to write down that embedded C bar and have the diagnostic notation Pazza expand that C bar entrance it\u0027s bit hard to generate because you cannot find out from a single document whether something is embedded C well you have to consult a schema for that but yeah it seems to work so try it on Seaborg and years if you want to play with it yeah there are a number of editorial changes the main change that is kind of customized affecting is that we now call annotations controls mainly because we might actually at some point want to have something like an anotation language first CD DL and we would like to reserve the term annotation for annotations when we we started defining "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:11",
    "text": "this construct we thought we were going to use it for annotations but it actually hasn\u0027t happened so right now it\u0027s it\u0027s just a control operator so we looked for a better name we didn\u0027t find one if you find a better name for this please tell us so this is a change in the description of City DL you\u0027ll take the description only the language doesn\u0027t change so it\u0027s still dot identifier as a binary operator now continue to be the most important extension point of CDL so that\u0027s a place where we will see extension in particular in connection with new tags that are coming in and these tags may want to define their control operators to have a way of specifying what\u0027s in their generics which were in an appendix called Nursery know how efficiently drawn up just because we have reports people have used them and found them useful we filled the examples a little bit because the document was having way more examples than definitive text and it still has more examples and different effects but it\u0027s getting a little more a little more balanced so we kept the ones that we think we are more useful and we move the JSON specific parts over into an appendix so people who really want to use CD refrigeration can have one place to look at and don\u0027t have to scan the document for that term yes so those are the editorial changes implementation status the embedded C bars implemented in c bo Derek the unwrapped and a B and F changes are waiting for implementation now I\u0027m currently rewriting the CD DL tool to make it a little bit easier to build tools around that and that\u0027s why I didn\u0027t want to put this into the old two so it might take a couple of weeks before that\u0027s there but that is just one tool and really one implementation is not enough so it would be nice if other people were implementing CD ble except that I can\u0027t really tell you what it means to implement Olivia because there are very very different things that a program can do with acidity a spec so the the tool that I wrote does about five things it can check a CD das back and it does this by just generating a completely random example so it uses every choice point that is in the specification and generates a random result so if you say eggs equals false or true you get the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:11",
    "text": "files or you get a true randomly so you run it ten times and then you get a pretty good feeling of what you just specified this is of course not a new idea there is a trick called a B and F gen everybody who loves a B and F have used a B and F J and has been surprised by what what they actually specified okay the second thing the implementation does is it checks C power in senses against the spec and I think everybody who writes examples into RF sees things this is a useful feature to help the third thing is the tool can actually pretty print some C bar into a diagnostic notation with comments that tell you which part of the CDA specification was being exercised their this apart is still somewhat flaky as Jim can testify I think but at least that\u0027s the idea and the first one we can extract C hefty fines for all the numbers that object in nurse to DD I expect that just we use this type link a bit but you can do lots of other things you could pretty print CD L itself that would be really useful to have you could have some application specific consistency condition that you want to add to a standard CD DL processor you could write tools for the management of number of spaces so something like the same tool we have for a game we might want to do something like that for CD there and I want to support this ecosystem by defining a JSON format for CD DL which of course is maybe a contradicting what I\u0027m always saying you shouldn\u0027t use JSON to define jason you should use a readable language but for interchange between tools that\u0027s a good thing to have so yeah find some right young grad student and and get them to write an interesting gtatyr but still has to be done on the technical side we have had these discussions about the Nurik system in CDL there were some clarifications but maybe the clarifications are not enough so there were some discussions on the mailing list from a guy whose company whose day job is to write a sand one tooth and then he read this back and said how do you handle this case and nice comment series Asian constrains I talked about that briefly we may actually want to have a couple of serialization constraint as a separate language just switches you can flip on it off and yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:11",
    "text": "we may want to think about better error messages everybody who has tried to check their their see bar examples against the city a jewel has experienced the city iho saying no and then you change something and says no and that\u0027s it would be nice if we had a way to get better honest honest and maybe the spec writer has to help a little picture on the editorial side we want to make one terminology walkthrough we have noticed some inconsistent use of terminology and maybe it would be a good idea to actually define a few more terms why we do this the introductory material is lacking so people always ask wait a minute there is young so why is there a CDL aren\u0027t they doing the same thing no they are not doing the same thing and we should explain that and yes editorial comments very welcome again just go to the github repo start typing comments on places that that you think are hard to read or misleading that\u0027s okay comments I keep I think okay one is coming and Joey wants to say something go ahead I\u0027m sorry for sitting on the side of the room that\u0027s not allowed to comment your name sorry I\u0027m Jeffrey Gaskin so I\u0027d like to use CDL from other specifications and the kind of the phrasing that I\u0027d like to use is parse these bytes as this CD dl item hmm with the current kind of arrangement of the spec that\u0027s not precisely defined it\u0027s it\u0027s reasonably clear what it means but it would be nice if in a kind of a future version of the of the draft there were a very precise definition of like where you go in the draft to see what that means so the question that is lurking behind that is when you write a grammar one one the semantics of that wimmer may be an acceptance test so the grammar kind of enumerates all all the valid languages as sentences in that language that\u0027s what Syria currently is defined at now what maybe you want to have is when you pass something with a CDI spec you get an abstract syntax tree that is shaped like this I think that also would be useful but it kind of is a different project i I think that the the way that CDL defines the the grammar the kind of the set of items that fall fall into a rule is not as clear as it should be okay so you want to fix the acceptance part yes okay let\u0027s do that so you did send some some comments to the mailing list already and I\u0027m looking forward to more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:12",
    "text": "comments Joe now we are not hearing you Joe mythical I don\u0027t know why we are waiting for Joe he can cut me off at any time um one thing I don\u0027t have a slide for is when do we want to be done and yeah my hope so yes that\u0027s what the my phone tells me yesterday yes so working with Rosco before Chicago okay before that I wanted to ask who is who has strong objections to moving this to the standard track please speak now and we will confirm it in the Middle East anyway no one okay he just okay Joe Joey cannot hear you maybe yeah try to relate to the job better or see the microphone issue I don\u0027t know I think Shawn Leonard wants to say that he has objections to standards at the track not a solid objection but the CDL document seems to be changing quite a bit with innovations so concerns Joe type see with the round trip time to Joe with okay I think he has the same concerns as Shaun look I\u0027d like to get the name nailed down before we go too far please this is Joe Astaire Joe yeah that\u0027s G R so the nay are not holding that we put in and touching I would now may we have to discuss this offline yeah let\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:12",
    "text": "so the I think the corner heard was we need to get the name nailed down yeah the CDL see the document name so maybe let\u0027s take it on the mailing list and also let\u0027s talk about moving into standard track see the concerns and Peggy yes yeah so this is Hank so we have a set of preconditions we have to satisfy in order to move to the question if we\u0027re going to standards track if I understand this correctly and one of the preconditions is that we nail down the name just to make this clear and if there are no objections as questions on the jabra I would think this is a precondition then I heard that there is a lot of technical innovation in the draft also and yeah I would call it more like obvious evolution but yes we are trying concept that we invented in the sixties yes so yeah probably the innovation might be a more obvious then it looks like but it makes car is more like common sense but if there are any objection to what is perceived as innovation in this graph that might be a blocker please also raises on the list very soon so we can nail this down another precondition also just a note that accepting a document as a working group item does not mean that as the end-all be-all of the document it still evolved within the working group yeah Alex email just a quick comment do you know the status of the document once it\u0027s done has nothing to do with the rate of changes you know I think that\u0027s one thing is asking whether it\u0027s stable and unlikely to change and the entirely separate decision whether it\u0027s information or standard track I don\u0027t think they actually affect each other really it\u0027s just you know changes is about when you\u0027re going to get done or you know what is stable unchanging core of the document okay so we are a bit late for lust that\u0027s comment okay thanks a taxi so this is clarifying from you thank you very much so I thought it would be something innovation might might inhibit becoming stun attract so that was my concern if you are not concerned about this I\u0027m I\u0027m okay with that real last comment now well if you have extensions of features in CD DL you are not sure about you can always move them to separate documents right that that lets you know as long as the core is stable you can publish core and then you know Jill with Reston and also users cannot not to use those features okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:15",
    "text": "there are two more items on the Magna Charta and I think we are not talking about with one because we still have to find out what the authors actually want one to suggest the other one is the array tags document that was originally suggested by Jonathan Roche and so I just helped him a little bit in making this turning this into a internet draft found so I believe this is pretty much cooked it hasn\u0027t changed for a while so this is maybe documented that also hits as an instance for understanding why we want to change the IANA considerations this document requests 26 tags and I think we we have to think about which kind of takes these are going to be so typed arrays should be known to anyone who works with JavaScript all works with graphics or both and this is just essentially a way to transport typed arrays identified as such in a civil action now typed arrays come in a large number of variants so they have five different lengths they come in unsigned signed and and float and yes they come in big endian and little-endian and this is the one way where I actually do agree with the idea of having a way to interchange something in little-endian of half so there\u0027s this this guy from from NASA who was talking to me about their massive hdf5 files and he wants to use SIBO not to replace hdf5 that would be stupid but just to send indexes of these files around so these are way more complicated data structures also hdf5 is not sufficient for that and he wants to use C bar to represent these indexes and and it\u0027s just it helps if they don\u0027t have to swap the bytes for doing that so this is all this hasn\u0027t been invented and but it\u0027s just the JavaScript typed array so you can look into ACMA 262 for the details of that and it essentially this essentially was stolen from the Kronos graphics standards so I think technically this is pretty stable the the way this is encoded in the form of C both legs of course can be discussed and there are two innovations here one is a tag for turning a one-dimensional array into no one because it it\u0027s just a normal thing you do when and your interchange a largely dimensional array in JavaScript you do a typed array and then you will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:16",
    "text": "say oh by the way this is not a nine elements it\u0027s a three by three element array and this is what this tankers and finally there is a tag that I declared an array as homogeneous which is a little bit unrelated to the other because it\u0027s not about typed arrays which are always homogeneous but it\u0027s about normal C bar arrays and it sometimes can help an implementation terminal this is going to be all integers this is going to be all floats so this is so taking a content yeah comments welcome so I think the only remaining comment from Joe way too many tags he thinks he should have one tag with an array tight actual array should work fine so I think he wants to have a tag and then something some some sub part of it and Shawn Leonard says when I reviewed this originally proposed last year I was ok with the quantity of tags but it posed them being the two byte space in the four byte space no big deal but so let\u0027s see what the first thing obviously one one way to do a structure that essentially is two parts for instance an exponent and the mantissa or here a type of an array and the actual bytes of the array is to have a two element array with with a information and and the actual contents tag by attack yes you can do that an implementation will maybe allocate a two element array when processing this on the wire it\u0027s just a couple bites more so since we have tags and we have many tags we can allocate why not allocate consecutive ranges of tags to to do this kind of encoding so I think it\u0027s much easier for an implementation to handle this but of course that\u0027s a style question so I acknowledge Josiah and some of the tags in the original 70 49 actually worked that way so both both styles are now why did we suggest two byte tags some of these arrays are going to be huge and yeah large tanks might work for them very well however sometimes arrays are pretty short and one of the applications that people have rubbed under my nose a lot is having an RGB color and an RGB color is three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:19",
    "text": "bytes and it would be nice if it was possible to attack this RGB color and have the whole thing still be of a reasonable size so the fact that the arrays can be huge doesn\u0027t mean they have to be joe says that taking so many tags that\u0027s a bad precedent it is like a something so it needs a very very good Shawn this is my concern with Joe\u0027s proposal is that now we need another sub registry for the type tag tag not truly a tag it\u0027s an enumeration so I agree with Carsten and the draft and a Joe says we can discuss this offline okay so this is not I want to die on so I not saying this if must be done this way but I think it would seriously it\u0027s the right way we should do this okay how much time do we have left yeah we\u0027re a bit late five minutes okay but before we move forward I just wanted to yeah since this work is in the Charter know how many people have read this draft please show of hand I see four I see and Joe and Trump yeah five six seven okay and I think that it would be good to have some reviews right so please yeah who who is willing to review this from people who have raised their hands well I don\u0027t see behind James okay great thank you and before we move to the uncharted where if you\u0027re done or is there anything yeah I didn\u0027t say it because it seemed kind of obvious but I\u0027d rather have the answer for this question before we make this a working project but we can do it the other way around yeah of course but I I think that there should be some discussion on this document since it has not I\u0027ve not seen much in the mailing list so I would like some people making this this language like is younger than the destruction much yeah okay so Michael Richardson um yeah so we actually should adopt the document simply so that we can allocate enough time to argue over it because otherwise it\u0027s it\u0027s not really you know it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:19",
    "text": "really working group document so why should we shouldn\u0027t spend more than a couple minutes on it and it\u0027s in the Charter pretty much okay so before alternate proposal is to I said let\u0027s move on since we\u0027re late before we or it\u0027s okay before me we move to many ways to skin a cat so let\u0027s get the technical questions answered and do the process questions why we do that okay so the next couple of slides are all about tag definitions that have cropped up in various environments our Charter tells us we should be working on two tag documents one is the array tags and one is the the object ID tags document where I said we the offers still have to fight that one out but sure of course other people are asking for tags and maybe this is the control part here where we just go through these tags and and quickly see our people interested in in working on this one thing that came up with 70 49 is that the time tag in there has some intrinsic resolution issues this is for tag one where we have a POSIX time and we haven\u0027t really provided a way to do a POSIX time to a decimal fraction or to a precision that is better than about a millisecond and of course people need better time and we also haven\u0027t done all the other things you want to do about time and and you know we have working groups working on time so it\u0027s a difficult thing we don\u0027t want to boil the ocean here but there was one specific request we got from the Haskell community who are using time tags that use picosecond and there is no good way to represent them in SIBO and it\u0027s probably better if we have one tag that actually does that that everybody uses then that we have a Haskell specific time job yeah so security automation probably wants to have more intend to information in time stamps and the IOT applications often use time scales that are different from the posix scale the posix scale is non linear and nonlinear is an FML from any control application so you need monotonic time scales there so this is not all done in in this document at this point in time one discussion we had was can we expand the existing tags but we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:22",
    "text": "quickly gave up on that we don\u0027t really want to be shackled by what\u0027s in the document right now so we defined a new tag and we actually have an allocation here because 0 is so allocation friendly we just went to IANA hey give us an F CFS tag and we got one so 1001 is now a tag 4/4 time and while we\u0027re at it we just got 1000 true for duration and 1003 for period you\u0027ve filled in the details but what yell ok ok so the idea is to define these things as maps with member keys and the numbers of those keys are either positive or they na negative the negative numbers are kind of additional information at the positive ones define the time so we have one for a POSIX time like in tag one for four decimal fraction and five for a big float so we can solve all the resolution problems that anyone might have but we also have specific additions in the oops this should be millisecond microsecond nanosecond and so on so you can have millisecond additions microseconds and so on so this this is in the current document this is the document against which the tag was registered but you probably can can go ahead and extend their document and have things like time scales in there and so on yeah so we are not the kind working group and I know there are lots of people who know way more about time but if we do this slowly and fill in this this key space slowly based on a good feedback that we have we might be able to do something by the way on that\u0027s Friday posix time reached 1.5 billion I hope you are celebrated it was at 4:40 in the morning in my timezone so we are at 1.5 billion two hundred ninety nine thousand four hundred when the working of meeting started I don\u0027t know where we are the monkey okay second thing the AP when working group is defining compression mechanisms for doing internet things in milli bit kind of environment where you have about a million per second of sustained throughput and so they are really interested in compression and one thing that is useful is to define something like a template statically so you have a data structure and you define a template and then when you actually transmit things you only transmit the variables in the data structure and then "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:22",
    "text": "the decompressor puts this all together again in a way that can be processed by the application so it\u0027s extremely simple this is just tag for the to is this it has to be allocated it hasn\u0027t been allocated yet but yeah it\u0027s probably a good idea because these templates have to be interchanged on the same milli bit links but but only initially it\u0027s probably a good idea to have something chart here but now we are in the too bad space again I think we have had this discussion so this is for LP we\u0027re not LW pen that would be also an interesting work item um yeah I think that\u0027s something we can keep an eye on something in the w3c work about thing descriptions a question came up how do you represent these things ascriptions between nodes and right now these are Jason Jason ad documents not it\u0027s an LD documents was late yesterday evening and these have lots of shared structure normally RDF no humans don\u0027t have lots of shared structure because RDF is defined that way but Jason Lee idea is a kind of flattened out RDF so you have lots of repetitions and when you actually interchange these things and you compress them you compress them down by a factor of five or so so the question is if we want to interchange these things that have shared structure repeated Springs and a lot of Springs with mostly the same prefixes is there maybe a good way to do that in Zeebo and of course one way is to run conventional data compression algorithm like deflate we have this convenient RFC 1951 that everybody has implemented everywhere so we might just use it and it\u0027s actually very successful in reducing the size of thing descriptions but it requires the receiver to actually decompress everything before they can process it they cannot take part and work on that from memory they essentially have to get generate a decompress a copy while working and that is kind of defeating the purpose because we want to get these data structures into very small systems and they just may not shit in and decompress state so we were looking at ways for instead of using traditional data compression packing the information a little bit and this is actually work that was started by by Joe Hildebrand some three and a half years ago and I took his draft of the time and slightly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:24",
    "text": "modified it by saying okay we take the original data structure but everything in here that is actually used more than once is moved over into a shared pool which is just an array of of centuries and the data point to this array using some some new pointer structures that we\u0027re try and common string prefixes which occur a lot with you is those get their own pool and also can be referenced but those references of course have have the suffix in depth so they they are not clean references that they also have a suffix in them so I implemented this in two hundred five lines of code just to see whether it\u0027s it\u0027s hard to do it no it\u0027s not hot and now the question is how do we actually represent these shared references and these prefix references in Siebel and now this is probably the most ruthless proposal for for spending INR code points let\u0027s see how well that is get accepted first of all because nobody has been using those simple tags we might we take a big bite out of them so I\u0027m arguing that we should take two-thirds of the sample space and chunk of 2001 bytes in the space and a chunk of the to bite simple space and then maybe even allocate a one bite egg to be able to expand on this so this would make sure there is no artificial limitation to the number of shared structure elements so that that\u0027s yeah that\u0027s something and for the prefix references and I locate I proposed allocate number of tags 32 tags in the two byte space and 512 tags in the three bytes face that there are lots of three much tags so we could do more than fraternal tribes but at some point it stops to be constrained device relevant so we only can have 564 best prefixes maybe that\u0027s enough but 640k is enough for everyone anyway so we we did this experiment with one of the the testes sing descriptions that were used in the test bed of the w3c Platt first last week and that is a JSON file that has 300 or 3100 16 bytes there\u0027s lots of white space in there so this is not not a reasonable number so if you take out the white space this is Jason fry with 1447 writes and you can see deflate really lets the air out of those and even cheap algorithms like a jet for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:25",
    "text": "which is something that you might want to do a mile on a microcontroller actually you still give you a pretty good compress compression so this is a little bit the benchmark here and C bar represents the same exactly the same data in 1210 bytes deflate actually is slightly less efficient here because the the Jason stuff really has a lot of redundancy that you can work on and the pepped mechanism using only semantic sharing uses 793 bytes which is not so good but with the prefix compaction we go down to 564 so that\u0027s getting close it still twice as much as ascending the deflate version but then you can work on it you don\u0027t have to decompress it to work it so it looks like this is an approach tool for maintain processability prefix sharing is good for working with urls and well I still have to fix my implementation to actually find all redundancy cases so that there are still a little bit if you look into one of the lists here they\u0027ll feel a little bit of redundancy in years or we could probably get down to like 530 bytes 520 right so the one thing that that w3 is probably going to add is a static dictionary so a number of the strings that are in here are going to be everywhere so a Jason ad document talking about media types is going to have the spring application Jason in it so you might as well put that into a static dictionary that is on all devices and bench don\u0027t even have to represent it because the implementation will know that thing is application chase okay so that\u0027s another keg that once we reach our table we want one may want to look at and from Joe Hill Duran he says I sure it how to do with exactly one tag allocation using more than that is prolific eight yes for the way Joe did it requires that you actually do the decompression wire sequentially scanning document why this mechanism here actually can be used incremental II so yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s slightly different maybe he hasn\u0027t read the document yet yeah so if the objective is to save tag space this is a real bad proposal if the objective is to represent data in an efficient way this is a pretty reasonable the main reason I wanted to bring this up is so you know what kind of requests might hit us in a consideration space 474 Thank You "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:28",
    "text": "Katherine we have five minutes left I know that Shawn wanted to say something if there is any comments or interest in this work please bring it to the mailing list of course so I think he\u0027s just writing in jabbering steps right we do what he writes just a reminder to the working group that there is a charter working group document the wood draft form and support acts join 0-6 for the auto ID tags and other identifiers as well as other topics please sir you the work and it also includes content about fixing or better specifying certain tags it hasn\u0027t changed since seems to March meeting so me we may want to get some reviews on that as well any other comments anything else the blue sheets okay then we\u0027re done thank you very much "
  }
]