[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:24",
    "text": "all right we might as well get started there\u0027s not a lot of other folks coming in right now so welcome to the stir meeting at IETF 102 if this happens to be one of the first means you\u0027ve been at this week please be aware and we are operating under note well if you don\u0027t know what note well is there are links on this slide that will take you to read about it you need to know about it before you participate before you contribute in in this session I\u0027m trying the Chromebook for the first time I have no idea what I\u0027m doing so forgive me as we stumble along here is our intended agenda open for bashing we\u0027ll have a quick report on status of documents that are in flight then spend some time talking about divert and out-of-band and then possibly talk about the rather we have filed on a couple of rfcs with weather and what we should do about them and the call flows draft and P charge info this is everybody\u0027s I mean here it\u0027s not seeing anybody rush to the mic to bash that agenda so we\u0027ll start off with where we are I think that the status of the documents in flight is normal and expected we have some things to being in the progress has been sent to the isg they\u0027re percolating up we have some things that have at the very end of the process with the RFC editor that have been working their way through the last things that needed to actually happen to get I Anna to put stuff in some registries but we have no exceptions and to my knowledge nothing at this point is actually stuck does anybody think otherwise No so do we have anything that we we need to actually talk about with respect to shaken Mary Chris is Chris here don\u0027t see Chris so well I mean the documentary working group last call and we got zero comments so I don\u0027t know if the chairs are comfortable with progressing a document that has no comments or weight we think it\u0027s done right it\u0027s you know and it pretty much describes what we have in the Anna\u0027s document so I gave it coming to Chris who\u0027s not here so I guess I\u0027ll speak to it John Peterson sorry I\u0027m sure I\u0027ll be here in a sec which is just is because we\u0027ve talked a lot especially in connection with some of the divert stuff about the size of passports I kinda wonder why shakiness have a compact form like it\u0027s actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:24",
    "text": "perfectly feasible to do it especially because I understand that in that shadowy world they call 3tp their shadow P headers for which you know be great by the way if the ITF knew about those shadow P headers that are over there in 3gpp but given that those exist I mean there\u0027s no reason why you couldn\u0027t do a compact form for shakin I not in a hundred percent agreement okay right okay okay because I mean we\u0027ve got the document out people are already starting you know to implement and such so maybe it\u0027s something a little cat later right if these things really do get that big that it\u0027s causing people grief and I agree with your point about the the P headers they should bring that stuff here they\u0027ve got another thing they\u0027ve got this very step thing that\u0027s not here either yeah I know I know that\u0027s what I I talked about that in the 3gpp meaning so we need to someone can write it up and bring it right I would just say it seems like a pretty easy thing to add and you don\u0027t need to actually use it in a test if you don\u0027t wanna write you can just use exclusively full form and say maybe later if you one compact form we can use it but it\u0027s like pretty easy to just kind of specify how you do it my knowledge is just saying hey if you\u0027re gonna want to do this in compact form pointing to those shadow headers and and style right yeah I mean we that\u0027s the whole thing so those paint headers are not part of any of our documents right now they exist in terms of a standard in PowerPoint slides so that\u0027s literally that\u0027s that\u0027s the degree of documentation right now so I mean we can push for that and then get that standardized I mean but I don\u0027t want it to hold up this document it sounds like you have nothing to reference at this point correct there we do not exactly there unless yeah we don\u0027t reference PowerPoint so again right but putting the capability inside shakin to have the compact form even though we don\u0027t currently have things that we would point to I need to talk to Chris about that because there was a reason there was another reason why he didn\u0027t want to do it know as I\u0027m in college if he shows up if he shows up he\u0027ll bring I won\u0027t come back to Liz okay so otherwise if he if he personally if he doesn\u0027t end up making it then we\u0027ll take this T take this one to the list before we actually push the Dutton a little bit further up actually John could you make your comment on the list thank you okay so let\u0027s go ahead and step forward into the discussion and divert an out-of-band and we\u0027ll come back to shaken if we have the right people in the room later so I\u0027m John if you want to start working your way up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:24",
    "text": "so far hi so I have very very little say today next slide please don\u0027t give me your evil thing Thank You thing these are awesome I\u0027ll try and make you pay him it looks like the little crosshairs there yeah yeah there you go okay for those who have not paying such rapt attention to this as a few of us have this is the divert draught this is probably the most commonly asked for feature beyond the core features of SIP how do we handle retargeting cases for you\u0027re trying to get to one destination and turns out that some intermediary targets it so the original passport says the destination is one thing and the requester IRET lands is another thing and if you\u0027re that entity at the verifications herbicide you say was this actually for me or did something isn\u0027t me just cut and pasting a random thing that was for somebody else entirely and using that to impersonate what appears to be the source in it you thought doesn\u0027t easy one to fix right well just create this thing that will put in a new field because did and we\u0027ll just put this in a passport that lets you match up what the original destination was within your destination include that as well and that\u0027s the original so is this different from history info and from the long non-standardized diversion header which we nonetheless have an informational RFC for it is for a couple reasons one of course its secured as the signatures of store associated with it but moreover because of the canonicalization features of ster it actually only captures certain categories of retargeting it\u0027s very narrow compared to the way that\u0027s something that wants you save it\u0027s a service logic works so in other words if all the changes about the URI is this is telephone number at AT\u0026T turns into telephone number isin thanks to the canonicalization procedures that isn\u0027t even a different passport first start so what even capture that stuff that\u0027s the big idea here been working on this for a while Addis has been kicking the tires in this hard what we\u0027ve got in it that\u0027s actually new we actually talked about this like a great deal and this is connected with discussions have been ongoing Addis date Hancock who\u0027s been working this quite a bit has been going through use cases endlessly to try to figure this out so far with this nesting issue this question of whether or not you should be able to literally embed within one Passport another passport so that you know which one got diverted so in case you get like 50 of them right in different identity headers you know like which one connects like which one because some elaborate service logic path this went through it\u0027s kind of clear to you like kind of the order in which these things got put together in which passports rely on other passports rather than just kind of get in the bucket and you gotta like sort through this one match with this one we ended up with this shot a recommendation that nesting seemed to work there are some known corner cases related to redirection and redirection is already kind of a corner case first er because it doesn\u0027t it isn\u0027t actually broken there\u0027s no security feature that can be triggered by this this 302 case we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:24",
    "text": "talked a lot about this last time in in London but nonetheless we decided that it probably for the kinds of use cases we\u0027re likely to encounter would be okay to do nesting work for in-band Eric actually made a comment about this on the list like like an hour ago I know if you want to talk about it this probably good good good place to because we\u0027ve got this up here yes what I\u0027d say so Eric Scott was effectively since Obi was one of the motivations for this and it\u0027s true it was the other one was just I mean if you end up with this message with like 50 identity headers and EXO went through exactly the torturous service logic you\u0027re describing your then left as a verification service with the task of figuring out how be related history info can help with that now if you\u0027re using history info as Mary shows in her draft the H I that\u0027s in that will let you be able to sequence them but in the absence of that it\u0027s actually kind of tricky and especially if you\u0027ve got like any kind of recursion or you know things like that that are built into this if you\u0027re doing like dips through forwarding that can get kind of here so I mean and by the way i mean i think that the das thing unfortunately works for either nesting or not right you still end up with this massive request with like 50 different passports in it and the question of whether there are there nestled or not doesn\u0027t really matter the zip might might help I\u0027ll give you that if you really want to save bits if you\u0027ve got 50 of these things you might be but it\u0027s basic ste 4 encoded already too so I mean you know there these things have a lot of entropy in them and like zipping them is you know may help it something help too much yeah the thing is you know it\u0027s one thing to have this my Eric I\u0027m Eric I am Eric Berger state your name a fifth that lets go like someone is doing it a denial-of-service thing a 50 kilobytes it message where it\u0027s you know fifty thousand thousand byte long lines will still probably be properly digested and kicked out at a certain point when you have a header that\u0027s 50 kilobytes long that will probably break things I could go either way in all things I was actually saying if the driver for this is out of band that\u0027s not compelling to me but that\u0027s just to me it may be compelling to a bunch of people in which case do it and the reason I say do it is if you say next thing is should then no one\u0027s gonna do it so either it is the way it\u0027s done or it\u0027s not the way it it\u0027s done pick one yeah we had this last time so we\u0027ve had this session the past couple times but the right way to do it and we\u0027re like should we do only nesting for out-of-band but we\u0027ll do nan Leslie for in band and like so we we\u0027ve kind of gone back and forth I think what we end up with though last time and I mean we took the sense of the room a couple times on this it was pretty much let\u0027s leave it as an option there are pieces where I might not make sense stuff right and I think some of exactly things like history and Bush cases might turn out to be the ones where it doesn\u0027t make sense and so because of that we didn\u0027t want to make it a mosque we wanted to say there are some things you could be doing in addition to dev that might help you sort this out so if people especially since the thing we\u0027re doing this floor is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:24",
    "text": "going to drive people to use history info then then then you know saying well if you\u0027re doing that Evangel you\u0027ll bundle it all together so that actually you know we\u0027re gonna have years of people doing it one way and then they\u0027re probably not going to start doing it another the the reason we\u0027re doing this is to beat impersonation attacks history and doesn\u0027t do that his brain shows the surface logic tracker right right and it\u0027s not our job it\u0027s not in our threat model to preserve service logics and our threat model to prevent people from impersonating things and so when we say we\u0027re not here to do that it\u0027s kind of extra credit I think too like buying this tune in there are plenty of things we\u0027re gonna bind this to there extra credits that\u0027s not necessarily bad but it\u0027s not why we\u0027re doing minibar so I will posit that we did history info to be generic that the motivation originally was service logic but I\u0027m positing anymore you know working through this and shaken that you\u0027re going to do more work to try and capture that information than if you just did history info you\u0027re going to be ending up putting some of that information that you would have with history info into your index built into that\u0027s correct that\u0027s what you think that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying it makes those scenarios easier mystery yeah yeah it\u0027s all what I\u0027m saying and if you try and work around those cases another way some of the things you\u0027re gonna do and information you might want to capture it\u0027s gonna be what you\u0027d have in history and folks we get it yeah I mean I I\u0027m not unset ik I think there\u0027s still a set of ordinary operations use cases that are 99.9 percent of the way more that all calls work oh yeah but we\u0027ve never gonna need these things you\u0027re describing so act where you\u0027ll never see more than one way of nesting in you know again that\u0027s 99.9 percent of the cases right right but there you get some enterprise cases and stuff and that\u0027s what we\u0027re chasing through and shaken right yeah I mean I I you know I\u0027ve heard some of how that enterprise case discussion has gone that\u0027s a different discussion about the security properties carriers are willing to well no it\u0027s it\u0027s both it\u0027s both issues it\u0027s the diversion stuff that you know I think that\u0027s a profile that is specific to the way that shaken treats endpoints treats user agents that I wouldn\u0027t build generically in tester well I really you know what I\u0027m talking I know what you\u0027re talking about but I just don\u0027t think that doing it generically is a better thing but especially given other discussions we\u0027ve had about the value of doing generic things but anyways right just the other thing is don\u0027t when I said you can zip up the different things it\u0027s not because I\u0027m saying oh you can compress it because hopefully the signatures are not going to compress because if they can it says we failed on our choices out there than you\u0027d say but it\u0027s the concept of you if you\u0027re worried about oh I want to put anything into this EPS that I can you know pull back a thin that\u0027s kind of independent of this mechanism I mean II "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:24",
    "text": "and we it\u0027s not the first time around merry-go-round we had this discussion of whether we should just only do nesting the CPS case but then a lot of people you\u0027re like well actually for the 99.9% redirection cases where there\u0027s a single retailing actually nesting makes more sense and it\u0027s these crystal egg cases where but the problem is then like you\u0027re actually forking it you know like in parallel like five different places and you need to make like five different passports that like our each you know and the server-side combination of this works a lot better if you could do nesting for those then if you actually have them all be separate and so and it was really the 302 thing that put us over the line on this right it was the fact that it was we wanted and this is this was this is all extra credit planned as far as I\u0027m concerned I wanted to be able to where you historically use diversion when a 302 came back to USA to be able to find something right have something signed that you would have gotten then from the redirection server there would accompany the new invite that would go out with the new targets that back to this that led to a lot of the complexities say we do need nesting for this action for the in-band cases right and so I would offer [Music] this feed with that and oh by the way this had a band and then I would offer must yeah there were people who argued that they there are cases where you they wanted to do it with separate identity headers and I mean is that on the list yeah so I mean I I think it\u0027s also that we like you pointed out we have some things in there that say we\u0027d like some operational experience with this we\u0027d like to kick the tires of it I\u0027d rather not say you must not do this with individual identity headers I\u0027d rather say you should do it this way and if four people in a profile that out once they discover that it doesn\u0027t work for some particular deployment environment I don\u0027t want our stand I don\u0027t them to be out of compliance with us well although I\u0027d love to do the rich shocky infinite Employment Program if we can avoid saying you know what word we say we\u0027re throwing stuff out there and hope something sticks which means it is experimental but to say well we\u0027ll do something that\u0027s standard which we know [Music] plus plus we talked about what it is for things to be a standard a draft standard a proposed standard and I think that there is enough Mott\u0027s around this that there\u0027s going to be some implementation we\u0027ll be able to see what happened from it I think it meets the VAR four PS as I understand it in the way that we do things so well obviously we\u0027ll leave that to our chairs and our ad I\u0027d like to give it a whack anyway see how it goes this morning I think Chris is texting me that he\u0027s in the hospital or something we also and this is actually something Krista and others raised on here and I think on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:24",
    "text": "list we made opt independent of dibs so opt is the thing that lets you do the nesting it\u0027s a parameter it actually just contains embedded passport it occurred to people there could be some future extension that would also want to be able to use nesting or passports reasons other than diff and so we actually broke that out a bit in the description in there to make it clear that you could do that maybe if this wasn\u0027t just like a sub element of dip that we were describing that\u0027s it next - oh one more thing yeah next slide what this thing is going in this my phone\u0027s my mic one thing I did occur to me actually was a nesting optimization I hadn\u0027t thought of this actually came from some of the discussions we had about this last time that as I was writing this up I hadn\u0027t thought out that is at least when to float this text is now in there it\u0027s it\u0027s soft text right now we could cut it out but this notion that in this case we receiveth 3ot with multiple contact hitters you could of course just create a single passport it\u0027s going to use in every invite you send now that has a guest list that contains the target list that is in the contacted er fields of the 302 response and then as a consequence of that you know you don\u0027t have to sign like you know 50 new passports actually 15 different contacts that come back in the 302 the pro of that is that you know nested passport that you include and all the targets the con is of course that refused it reveals the the target list to every destination and so if you don\u0027t want everybody he receives this to know what all the contacts but lists were then that\u0027s bad so I mean I put this in as a hey in some environments it might make sense to do this but like I I would I would probably leave it in with that just so we don\u0027t rule this out just in case somebody thinks it\u0027s useful in some environments it might be there are a lot of cases for example where like a 302 comes back from a service is just kind of working out your four devices right and like it does since you control all four of those devices you know you\u0027re not reviewing anything to any one of them to show them what the total destination list was and that shows you all the devices you control that end up being run by this particular invite so I mean it\u0027s not always a bad thing to reveal the target list in that way it\u0027s a good idea to haven\u0027t occurred to me um before but there may be other pros and cons at least I haven\u0027t thought of I put some things in there if people want it in or out let me know and anybody have any thoughts on that I\u0027ll stop there head it seemed like it might be useful so anyone object to it staying Mary Barnes I don\u0027t think it\u0027s a good idea so I need to say a little more than that well because you are revealing information and you all have to say I\u0027ll also have to consider when you\u0027re routing some of these things you\u0027re actually putting privacy headers in there and that sort of thing as well so what do you do with the ones that have that in there right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:24",
    "text": "well I have to forgive you I use face example where it doesn\u0027t matter because all of the targets are things that again it\u0027s your it\u0027s your server in other words when you\u0027re redirecting right you\u0027re deciding to reveal the contact list and give the passport back remember you that the three that person who does the redirecting is the one who generates the pass and so they get to they get to choose whether or not they think it\u0027s okay okay so that\u0027s fine ritual we just want doing shakin that\u0027s okay okay thank you master of shaken controller of all that is shaken next slide I\u0027m not gonna learn this I\u0027m not gonna bite I got it I got it that kind of it I\u0027ll attach to my head this time this is pretty close you know I think a das\u0027s kick the tires on div pretty hard at this point I think we understand what it does and doesn\u0027t do I would be comfortable shipping roughly what the mechanism is at this point Mary is also looking a bit at some of the stuff in terms of the HR interaction it certainly needs editorial review I don\u0027t think anybody\u0027s gone through like and redlined this and said if the sentences make sense or something but yeah you got oh I\u0027ve got a red line review thank you but I\u0027m sorry can we get some other people to volunteer to do reviews Eric obviously good one Shawn and Mary fantastic okay Christian me read it Crestor make sure because you\u0027re missing taker put those four names in the minutes please Eric so Eric is done he does not need to be does not need be just smack around for this but I\u0027d say with that I mean I\u0027d become to allows following this at this point I think it\u0027s pretty well understood what this does and doesn\u0027t do and a lot of people seem to think we need one okay Eric again Russ I mean I\u0027ll start the thing that just says muster should on the list button okay and if nobody responds and it should sounds great if a bunch of people say it should be should then should sounds great why some people say it maybe must capitals are see descending from the heavens finest all boob Oh are we you coming for this picture Fred mmm for diverting rich Aki just an editorial reminder that it is at us and the forum Joint Task Force a quorum org membership costs how much now twelve thousand five thousand five hundred very much yes the the other part is just out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:27",
    "text": "of curiosity because people\u0027s attitudes might have changed since the last time everyone met why don\u0027t you ask a ray to raise their hands most verses should so we could just see what people think at this particular point in time Jerris elected you got hang on well what are you saying must versus should for for what exactly for using nesting in band okay so I so to be clear that would mean that there are you\u0027re not allowed to have an identity header with a div in it unless it has a nested passport in it that is forbidden by the spec now is what must meant so that\u0027s what must would be it sure as long as you step away from the microphone [Music] okay so Bahamas you prefer that we must you prefer to be should or you don\u0027t care now you prefer to be must you prefer to be should you don\u0027t care I heard a slightly louder for must but that\u0027s what I\u0027m just but usually these discussions start with what you heard in the world okay yeah I mean I think but I guess I\u0027ll have to write something to list the kind of talks about what I think the trade-offs are of this and what what it means to make a decision about okay next slide it\u0027s me do the next line myself I even less say about this document this is the thing where we\u0027re trying to figure out a way to do stir without actually sending the passports in band all kinds of reasons why you might want to do this it might be that there\u0027s a gateway that the thing you see that\u0027s an authentication service there this game drop to the PSTN and it\u0027s gonna get picked up by another day but on the other side you see the endpoints like all kinds of these weird use cases pretty much this is our story though about how did you sit and how to make stir work when you know it\u0027s not safe end-to-end and they\u0027re just a lot of cases where it\u0027s not sip end and I hear this a lot when I talk to people out in the world this is a great idea if it doesn\u0027t work for cases that are not sip end-to-end you are not actually solving the problem so I\u0027ve been trying to solve this problem so what\u0027s new what have I done to solve this problem recently pretty much nothing actually as a very cosmetic update I tried to make it clear I\u0027d mocked up a rest example last time that pushed a guide for future work that somebody could pick that up if they felt like it I removed a couple of TBD it\u0027s better be honest my plan here is the same if you look at the title this document it is said it is an architecture and framework for doing out-of-band and I\u0027m content to leave it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:27",
    "text": "at that for the moment to just read this as a framework architecture document and if there\u0027s interest we\u0027ll do some kind of protocol specifications for it at a later time there\u0027s enough here to do some implementation based on it if people felt like it but that\u0027s it my plan now is to say we have a charter item to explore out of an this is what an architecture and framework would look like I think it\u0027s articulated enough we kind of get what the use cases are we get what the basic idea is of how you do this and if there\u0027s sufficient implementation interest to take this further we\u0027ll take it further but otherwise we\u0027ll consider this to kind of satisfy the obligation and the Charter what anyone like to convince me that instead we should do a protocol for this here yeah I don\u0027t see anybody leaping up to a microphone oddly enough is anyone working on or know of anyone that\u0027s working on an out-of-band implementation already [Laughter] so this is you exactly see this document but yes let me ask this does anybody think it\u0027s important to solve a case for this case that is not zip and to end I see a couple hands up I see a couple of people shaking their hands like this event I see red Jackie coming up this is rich Jackie yes it is possible at some future date and I think the plan that you\u0027ve outlined which is to advance this to essentially an architectural document is perfectly reasonable and prudent until such time as we can find one carrier on the face of planet Earth they would actually like to do this after they have to be carrier no okay but I have heard personally absolutely no one that\u0027s interested in this however times change attitudes change but certainly taking this to last call I certainly think it\u0027s a good idea now by I think I\u0027m here - I\u0027m here to declare victory man I\u0027ve got this huge like mission accomplished better behind me anybody want to run up to the mic and say we need to go ahead and specify protocol right now I mean so there\u0027s are they gonna lock up right of like what if you\u0027d like to do this with rest in there it\u0027s not it\u0027s not something you actually think about - right it\u0027s just a mock-up it is there just to show what you might do to do something like this so it\u0027s your do we run a risk that people will say oh we\u0027ve solved out-of-band therefore no one needs to work on a solution by saying we\u0027re done and publishing I think if it\u0027s clear this published as an overview in an architecture and not as a concrete "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "proposals protocol and I don\u0027t think we have a problem and if anyone later says oh we\u0027ve got a different solution that doesn\u0027t follow this architecture we can\u0027t do it because we published an RFC do I get to shoot them in the head I mean I don\u0027t believe that is is okay that\u0027s all I got Chris you\u0027re here you want to talk at all about chicken and I raised the demon question whether shaker should have a compact form that\u0027s the reason why yeah but you weren\u0027t here yet it\u0027s like yeah I think I haven\u0027t received any comments and I think we talked about or we actually went through working less working last call on the list so yeah so these we have a you know this late comment that you might consider putting in but what was it going I\u0027m sorry I and this what you said oh yeah I spread out that because because the chair said there have been no last call comments and so should we just advance this and so I actually well actually I did say to you privately yes shouldn\u0027t you come back for him in this maybe I thought they should stop the discussion sure do you want to have the discussion well I already had some of that I said that if you care about saving bytes and because the shadowy headers for origin and so on exist over and reach VP I mean surely those are what you would then use you know to point to from the contact form of shakin well actually we don\u0027t those peanutters what they do is actually we build the passport from those P headers those being headers don\u0027t leave the service providers network I mean your entire network as a service project you you\u0027re designing an N and I it\u0027s not I\u0027m just telling you they\u0027re not letting those P headers link there no each service provider that\u0027s how it works in the PowerPoint well I know you say I I have some documentation elsewhere so I can throw a you know drive together so you\u0027re telling me that it\u0027s illegal for you so you go for the key it\u0027s illegal for the P headers to leave your network but it\u0027s not illegal for a passport that contains the literal values of those P headers to leave your network that\u0027s madness we can bring the draft in and discuss it then right but the intent was that they\u0027re taking those headers off and partly because they\u0027re not standardized right he was in them are in your passports that leave your network it is madness one second so my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "assumption my my thought when you mentioned that was that it wouldn\u0027t be P headers it would be sort of like info or those types of you and is that a parameter yeah that had exactly the same function as the LOA and is that they had at least that would be the easiest way to find it I mean the point is these headers exist right and I I\u0027m always kind of annoyed when these things exist in they aren\u0027t any idea but it like very sad you know that I\u0027m still annoyed about so I mean I\u0027d rather that the the way these are being done be things that people are aware of outside of that that community and that they\u0027re in public specs but I mean right now in at least in the IP N and I task force the plan is probably not to use those but if we think that there\u0027s a non-controversial way to define compact form just to be complete and add them as identity header parameters I mean I would do I\u0027d any parameters it\u0027s fine yeah that doesn\u0027t matter to me I this all started again for our conversations about the fact that no passwords were getting too big and like if you want to reduce the size of them we\u0027re talking about different ways if you try to cut them down the obvious way for this would be to do a compact form for shakin all you would need for that is for the two shakin parameters to actually appear somewhere else and this is ProQuest and then you be able to do it and so if it\u0027s not the P hitters when it was parameters that\u0027s fine it\u0027s just I what I and I said this earthquake you man what I don\u0027t want to do is to you know prevent that right from being possible in the RFC that we put out and then have to go like fix it later and then and we would also want them to be optional so if you\u0027re doing full form you wouldn\u0027t you require that yeah correct right yeah right but I don\u0027t necessarily want that to be a dependency for this document I have that all documented right because you\u0027re gonna have to put in the in when you describe how to use the compact form that you\u0027re gonna need those headers there right but you need to define the you know the normative behavior for those right yeah but your pre appear Lee there to support compact form correct no no they\u0027re they\u0027re not in the proposal right that wasn\u0027t the intent in the proposal at all the attention the proposal was to capture miss soon as they come into the sorcerer\u0027s network so if it leaves their network they build their passport then so they\u0027re not signing as a hub so their network is a large percentage doesn\u0027t cause conflating the P headers which were just meant to be internal to the network this is purely representing the or Ajay D and the attest parameter so that if you\u0027re using compact okay that\u0027s a different thing that but he started with trying to suggest we use the P headers so we\u0027re not gonna that\u0027s fine no that\u0027s fine I\u0027m okay with that all right that\u0027s fine that\u0027s fine yeah okay we hadn\u0027t discussed that part and I maybe just assumed that would be the solution but okay that\u0027s that\u0027s fine I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "fine with that then if we do that yeah okay and we do have editorial comments from mr. Berger here that I have in my hand oh so I\u0027ll do that here okay so I think so I can quickly add some text around that and that so would you please send a note to the list outlining what you\u0027re planning to add yeah and I might even be able to just write up the text and yeah create a new version all right thank you thank you so you need to put him at the present I\u0027m over there actually if you told us Ferran yes I mean if you can\u0027t drive the slides I would appreciate it right first it would be about if you Arata which possibly may require in my opinion some changes in 82 24 and 82 25 and I already received some comments on those particularly from John and next slide please first let\u0027s go over the first one right the first one pertains to how ayat\u0027 is populated okay now 75 19 right defines that ayat\u0027 needs to be populated with the time of passport issuance now at the corner in my opinion it is relatively clear it should quite clear what issuance time for a passport means so currently right relying on date for that is in my opinion risky to say the least and if one takes a very strict approach a very purist approach in my opinion one may even argue that it\u0027s the wrong thing to do because I said I think issuance time is well the time when the passport was issued granted if date is really close enough and if you want to use compact form you may rely on it but rather than favoring use of date for populating ayats heavily in 82 24 and 82 25 then I would have expected a more neutral language we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:31",
    "text": "using take is specified indicated more as an option than certain conditions are met toga can i this is John you said it risky can you help me understand what actually the risk is sure sure and if you can go to the next slide please okay now let\u0027s consider this scenario that Yui is generating in white and tan for example you have an access entry point right to your to your network and you is populating the dated right and now initially some announcement is played some digits are collected from Yui etc you are still in the originating Network right and then there are cases and this is really something we face in reality where people want to generate signature only then the call is going to leave their network cuz the line of thought there is if the called originates in my network and terminates in my network then I probably don\u0027t need to sign it verify it because I trust myself I tend why do I need to you know pay the cost for signing and verification pretty much unnecessary so the signature is generated only if the call is leaving the originating network and at that time the difference between date and the actual time at which the passport is issued could be different in a non-negligible way now one could argue then when you do that just you can also update the date header well let\u0027s that may be problematic for some other reasons right and may even not be allowed at certain network deployment models based on jurisdiction or based on some other factors sure no I I didn\u0027t see on again I I got that I did read your mail about this analyst I guess I got two comments about that the first is I don\u0027t I know we don\u0027t define what a species do because no one defines what a species do but a species love to just create invites and like recreate things like dates I think they would in these cases they would recreate passports in these cases and I said say more particularly that this is not what I would consider to be an example of ordinary PSTN operations that have 45 50 seconds of post style stuff and that for that reason I\u0027m okay with that being the main case and you know the one that\u0027s in the documents now being the showed case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:32",
    "text": "because I expect that the showed case is what you should do most of the time if you\u0027re doing very unusual things like this I know these unusual things they\u0027re all happening in the originating network and that\u0027s a necessary part model here right where the the t ones and T twos and so on all that that stuff is being all controlled and tabulated it\u0027s like I I just you know I\u0027m unperson persuaded this would convince me not to just create this loose coherence between date that we have today because the the style of impersonation attacks that we\u0027re trying to defeat these kinds of call flows just aren\u0027t things that I consider that significant to the threat model like what what what hacker is like using things like this right it\u0027s you know I guess what what I\u0027m trying to feel how you exploit this as a hacker to be able to impersonate someone that you couldn\u0027t otherwise all the only reason that this would lead us to you know another impersonation opportunity would be because it encourages us to make our recommended date window larger right which that does actually means easier for hackers I mean I think just just based on like to kind of the 8020 argument this is not the way most telephone calls occur and I\u0027m okay with what we have as a should being the way most telephone calls occur and okay with there being a may for ways that sometimes things need to happen so actually basically then I believe you had another point in your comment on the list that you know you wanted that coming the main reason why reliance on date was introduced it for the sake of contact form so how much practical value is there really saving on the time information itself is it consider it as something well tangible or something non negligible something negligible compared to the total size of a message II so I mean I guess that is the trade-off you have a compact form we assume that we rather save bits then care about what is under ordinary operation again 99.9 percent of the time very small difference I guess if the difference is being is within what we expect you know in our threat model is okay kind of clock drift right and you know where we don\u0027t think that there\u0027s much likelihood of an impersonation attack being launched like as a cotton paste attack basically in that time window where we expect for example that the UAS and the terminating side would still remember facts about the calls at scene Gila correlate the fact that this is replay or things like that right yeah I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s because of that that we assume that that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:33",
    "text": "difference is insignificant and I did ask some people that knows stuff about jobs about this bit too about how they interpreted ie like how strictly we should understand it and I did go back and look at 75 19 and I I really don\u0027t think it\u0027s you know that that it really mandates much in connection with that so Chris went I just want to reiterate John actually told abroad it haka on your comments on the list and sort of the going back to the philosophy of correlating the date and the ayat as sort of our primary replay attack mechanism and I think you know even since ni p ni n and i we\u0027ve been focusing a lot on full form and not necessarily correlating thing those things it\u0027s good to go back and think about the fundamental reason why we did that and i for me that sort of goes to the point of you know what did we want to represent the ayat as it\u0027s meant to be the date we should keep it that way if you do have these application scenarios that are holding up the invite in the network then that\u0027s just part of the things you have to do when you\u0027re doing these types of applications so personally i I would even tend to say let\u0027s go back to the fundamental philosophy and sort of try to stick with that one comment / question and what is the general feeling called opinion about making use of current time the preferred form is full form is used rather than compact for this is John again soda I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s a mana document right now it says if you\u0027re using both abilities as well if you\u0027re in full form you must use the register if the I T is different you must use for for basically they but what about if you will turn into terror intent okay if you need to use the full form for some other reason right then we\u0027ll teach be preferable to use the current time over date or not right I mean I think doesn\u0027t mean if it makes a difference I think we have real problem it makes difference in terms our threat model then I think if we have a problem then because it doesn\u0027t make a difference in terms of our threat model we don\u0027t have a problem so it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of I don\u0027t care either way if it\u0027s you know 500 milliseconds later you know I don\u0027t it makes no difference to the way that the verification service should should evaluate the passport that\u0027s okay remember up Tolga - we designed this for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:35",
    "text": "cases where imagine you\u0027ve this graph you\u0027ve got up here now and this is probably something I should miss a list imagine like the things in the Yui side you know have a is built into them they sign this it goes the first SPC the first SPC does a you know basically acts as a bwa and puts a new date on it and you know if you did this full form at the start and you have a passport with nighty in it the dates different from that because of something that an SPC did to change the date in the SIPP message but preserved the original passport it should still work right so we want to allow these things to be different because this SIPP stuff get smudged in the middle of the network and so that\u0027s like one of the main reasons why we want these things to be able to be different yeah I understand of course if you change the date today then you are supposed to generate a new passport but I can again tell that in practice species evolved quite a bit now I think most of them at the capability to pass data ders in an animalistic way I mean it is really not a given that an SPC or a device similar to that would definitely change the data just for general information for folks there okay Mary Barnes I\u0027m actually gonna get up here and agree with mr. Peterson I don\u0027t think we have a problem and I think it\u0027s better let\u0027s get some operational experience and see if there\u0027s a real problem out there you know we\u0027re seeing here saying we don\u0027t think there is right this is a theoretical problem okay the next one is about the fingerprint attribute currently there is some takes in I to 24th which ties its used to use of DTLS SRTP actual there could be other reasons why it is needed for example TLS fits self-signed certificates for MSRP is one use case and probably there is also no good reason why its inclusion should be tied to some specific use case anyhow so I would suggest that it is included whenever a fingerprint is present in STP Callaghan so remind me when you\u0027re doing an atom or somebody you probably know this off the top of your head when you\u0027re doing TLS which also inserts from SRP would you have an equal fingerprint attribute and STP yes mmm are there alternatives like we would store it in another attribute perimeters "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:36",
    "text": "to be here not IMF Arif um yeah okay probably yeah um okay I could probably see that in terms of how we\u0027re gonna fix that I\u0027m not sure I would a rata that in a 224 I\u0027d probably do something that if you wanted to have an MSRP usage for TLS with self-signed search for this we do a separate specification that describes how you\u0027d integrate that in with this I had to speculate just organizationally how we do that I don\u0027t know there\u0027s like a burning interest in that at the moment there is no maybe a burning interest in it but then for the approach you proposed wouldn\u0027t that run into the risk of then whenever you need to use it for something else Tandy TLS SRTP then you would need to come up with a new document it is and I think I\u0027m ok with that risk again so even if you get back to remembering our threat model here what are we here to do we\u0027re here to try to beat a class of impersonation attacks they\u0027re largely based on telephone calls they\u0027re largely based and now I\u0027m not gonna say it has nothing to do with messaging MSRP is a little different from the traditional text messaging cases though where you\u0027re doing numbering impersonation based on telephone numbers right this is deeply tied to telephone numbers it\u0027s deeply tied to the semantics of your receiving you know communication from a number and trying to figure out if it\u0027s being impersonated or not I don\u0027t know that there are a lot of use cases for that to be honest out there in the world and I\u0027m not sure how likely it is that like then what\u0027s the thing that you and Ross are working on what Martin Dali and all that that is doing isn\u0027t that like a messaging yeah like what does that use for so you know self-censor it\u0027s it doesn\u0027t use TLS but it\u0027s it is it @m MSRP here what does it use okay it\u0027s a transport neutral right messaging secure messaging thing but it\u0027s but it is for roughly these kinds of use cases so I guess again I\u0027m not I think I\u0027ll say it certainly say this we put out once pack that updated RFC 82 24 to say if you want to do a equals fingerprint for other applications we\u0027re doing it for this and if you need to do it for other ones here\u0027s how you do it I what I would I would not want to do at this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:36",
    "text": "point though is speculatively based on the fact there might be interest in doing something kind of like this say actually equals fingerprint is not tied to TTL SS or GP I\u0027d much rather say there are you know if there\u0027s a specific use case that define what it is and put it out there and get consensus that that\u0027s actually something that want to be able to capture and stir maybe that\u0027s that\u0027s my initial reaction to that okay then just wondering clear why was that restriction or reliance to put there to start with so because I don\u0027t know the history behind it so yeah this comes back a sip brandy work you heard a sip brandy this is a working group we had here in the ITF we\u0027re trying to figure out ways that we could use this to provide basically secure a chain of confidentiality we had a whole bunch of the speed of both about this they would think was called like RTP sack or something like that where we vetted a number of different solutions for doing secure basically score voice or secure real-time media and the ITF and after a lot of experimentation of argumentation that things like ZRTP and things like that we ended up upside with with DJ LSS trophy is our standard for doing this here for moose the types of media that we\u0027re setting up here with STP and especially for the stirrer issues cases and so kind of we you know it it was in consideration of the against ur threat model which is really based on mostly telephone calls coming in and they need to make sure that we were providing adequate protections for this to be like a class of attacks where and this is like hydral Kaplan is all coming back to me now this is like back when like he\u0027d roll Kaplan was here and we were we were gonna have something in the passport that was going to sign based on like an IP address or something like that hey jewel got really uptight about it and said that we were ignoring all of these best practices like IP security and so instead we wanted to tie this in a mandatory way to some cryptographic instrument that was going to be built into the device basically to prevent attacks were like the sip signaling is coming from a slightly adjacent module or device than where the media is coming from and I mean yeah I understand the neat and completely Glee for DTLS SRTP itself I was asking more in the context of why the restriction of including MKIV and not only when fingerprint is present but also that it\u0027s needs to be used for DTLS SRTP I mean what type of optimization is aimed for when generating the password for that I mean forgive me rather if I\u0027m rambling anyone interrupt me for ramble more your what need you know ramble just a little bit more but try to keep it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:37",
    "text": "again like I said it was just that our key piece acting right way so we had our kind of like Thunderdome for what the right way was to do this and we decided the right way to do this for the use cases we cared about was DTLS SRQ PA and there was a lot of people in the big room that talked about this for a long time and all of our security smart people said this was the right thing to do and so when we built stir it was built and a lot of artifacts for how that that came together was built in the way that we wanted to create again that binding between the signaling layer and the media layer and we felt that in the mandatory strength requirement to the thing that had won and Thunderdome was required in Campbell I don\u0027t usually have to pull the mic down I just wanted to confirm that MSRP does require the use of the fingerprint attribute if one is using self-signed certificates and actually the definition of that comes from the commedia over TLS stuff so Jon\u0027s reminder of the conversation that we had in group when we put this the the the must that were basically talking about here into the specifications was a well considered and widely participated in decision by the group so I think that that I puts this one pretty much to bed I mean this was the the the group came to the decision to do it this way I think the possibly the only shortcoming that we might have in the documentation that\u0027s leading to us having to have this conversation is we didn\u0027t write down enough why at the time well like I said it\u0027s not it\u0027s not crazy either to say there should be a way maybe to do this with MSRP I mean I you know now that I think about it I\u0027m like oh it\u0027s not telling that\u0027s wrong or something I don\u0027t think it I don\u0027t think it was what we needed to beat our threat model which is robocalling because those robo calls are like really really annoying and like or not MSRP but you know I wouldn\u0027t like I said I wouldn\u0027t object having a document that said there should be another way to do this for a specific use case that some people are gonna get behind and that we really want to do this for something like MSRP that\u0027ll be fine and the properties get betted as opposed to trying to just generically create an open exactly rather than a ratting point you are in saying hey anything goes yeah I don\u0027t want to do that so to our area director Adam we just talked about to errata that are in the system you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:38",
    "text": "officially have to process them do you want anything from the working group well you\u0027re gonna push one of three buttons right okay I think with what you just said we will listen you have all the information you need unless you say otherwise later okay great I think that is the the last slide here is that was that or do we do I think we had it on the agenda to do the h2o call flows first okay so I went ahead and start putting together some call flows looking at some of those that we had done for history info and trying to show how what it looks like when you\u0027ve got the div passport and history info just to kind of show how some of this information court lights um so just a little bit of background right so there is the optional h-hi element and the div passport right and that contains the index of the related history info header field when you did the retargeting and you so therefore you know you can correlate it and so you can get for example we have a reason field out there that might be helpful in some cases right without having to add that you know into the div passport um and then history info capture again it captures the request URI but we also tagged that the type of retargeting and that was something we added in the bids that wasn\u0027t originally there so our C is the target user remains the same basically registered contact is what you\u0027re using the MP is when the target user changes to an AOR that is totally unassociated with the AR of the original target user and then NP there\u0027s no change in the request you I think about history info when we would visit it we do internal retargeting we capture every bit of how that request is retargeted and how the request URI changes okay and if you go look at the differed it\u0027s pretty much being added in the case where you\u0027re doing the MP right that ALR is changing okay so I put together an example so I\u0027ve got over on the right to passport for the initial request and then when you do the diversion the day of passport what that looks like and then I tried to just show how the history info the information you\u0027re gonna have now here you can see that the MP isn\u0027t actually the last H I entry right you\u0027re pointing to one to one because that\u0027s at the point in time when you actually retarget it to the new AOS and so but you still can go back and look at your MP attribute and know that you know you had you you had the diff you you might expect if you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:38",
    "text": "implementing you know secure identity that you\u0027re gonna have a div passport there Krister it\u0027s just quick just a question for clarification I haven\u0027t read this text into drive so I\u0027m asking here the only thing you\u0027re actually gonna sign here is this index value right so so it doesn\u0027t say so if someone goes and this doesn\u0027t say anything about whether or whether their history info the ID our information has been modified or compromised or whatever they did well this doesn\u0027t really sign the history in for its it doesn\u0027t sign history info but you do have some information right you have the original you know target you know AOR and the request you are and that sort of thing so you want to make sure that\u0027s the same when you when it gets to the application so it\u0027s giving the application a little bit more confidence that this stuff wasn\u0027t luck with it is there text about that I just look in the draft I don\u0027t remember now it\u0027s pretty rough right now but right it\u0027s in right I think there\u0027s actually a good draft in the sense of all we\u0027re protecting here is these H is have no idea what they point to then it\u0027s there to help you sequence this to understand how the things that are in devs connect up with whatever is nehi and here\u0027s a look at it and see Anakin\u0027s well you ten right so yeah I have some text in there for the use cases right and I only only got through one use case cuz this stuff is really tedious and I had to change I got to add telephone numbers back in there you know we had normal sip URI so it was a little tedious but I found it helpful myself because Maryann majalis gonna have to do this at some point in time because she does all the history info and the version stuff over in 3gpp so Krista you know that\u0027s all fine I just you know I wanted to be clear that this is this is not a method for signing the whole history correct absolutely correct and this is the whole thing let me go to the next one I think I couldn\u0027t discussion points right so history and flow again captures the new target when the entry is added and it has the same value as request you are in the request we capture the new one so it\u0027s there for when you do retargeting just to refresh people and so then the dude password is added when the request has been retargeted in the destination AOR changes so they\u0027re not quite like I showed in the example right you\u0027ve got index 1 2 1 but really that the map being happened one step further but the fact that you have an MP in there then you should have a corresponding if you\u0027re you know you\u0027re doing into an authenticated identity ok and so this is my point here is their value and adding more information to the passport for example the reason right some of the applications base what they do based upon the reason header field but that\u0027s that\u0027s you know in the history info right so I again I was going through the use cases and just trying to see if it would be helpful in terms of the confidence and the information that you have in the history info to put something else in there and this is just a thought I just start doing this ok and then I was going to go ahead and do some more use cases and the second one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:38",
    "text": "actually this is what I realized so there\u0027s a you know voicemail scam where they call in and they guess the password and then they kind of hijacked the account because they record a new breathing and they have the words to use in terms of accepting collect calls and stuff and so then they hijack your PBX and start you know transferring to making outgoing calls and stuff so that that\u0027s a real one that is going on but see it turns out it\u0027s not history info doesn\u0027t really to me this is just the thing that that store in general helps with right although in for example you could block the calls you have more information now the calls coming in right so if it comes in with a gateway attestation you might well not want to even let that get to the voicemail system yeah Christmas playing the game attestation is not what\u0027s protected by the passport right it\u0027s it would be this this this would be in your passport yeah oh I\u0027m sorry I\u0027m sure you mean the attestation you\u0027re shakin no sorry shakin attestation sorry about that yeah I guess I should I should have been more clear right that\u0027s right this is our shake and passport this is in case you\u0027d have that yeah okay and so my question is is there value and doing more call flows and stuff I thought it was helpful because we really don\u0027t in general have a lot of call flows for any of the stir stuff and I think once we put you know diversion in there it I think it\u0027s helpful personally but if I\u0027m the only one no one\u0027s gonna read it and find it helpful and informative than I obviously will not continue working on it any feedback on that no I support the work okay I think it\u0027s a good idea to document obviously we\u0027ve doing a little bit of that on the IP ni side as well and these issues do got complex so I write this value okay thank you yep yes cursor I think as we are defining this H I this this thing we should have examples whether it\u0027s in the same document or separate documents I don\u0027t really care but I think it\u0027s good to have examples okay right and I personally prefer separate call flow documents personally many ways okay and if anybody wants to help me do this sort of thing that would be good right especially if anybody has prototypes in real flows that\u0027s always very helpful so of course I I just had another comment because you had a question there with whether we should also include the reason yeah in the first word I think because this could go down a slippery slope then someone wants to add something else I think if you want actually information from the history and where we should just define a compact way of doing it this these are the elements that I take from the raising header and then you calculate it and put the value into the passport instead I know and I have a little bit of discussion about that in the document on what\u0027s the better way and maybe it\u0027s worth just considering still right again once we work through some use cases we might see right if the other information really is important and has an impact on you know the end service where this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:38",
    "text": "might be used then yeah yeah okay so Lawler\u0027s support for continuing working on the call flow documents do you have a good feel for when it would be fine to submit this thing for publication and if other reasons came up to make call flows put in this up a document I don\u0027t want this to be you know forever frog morning exercise sure I mean my plan was to go through the history info call flows and pick some of those out right because we figured we had a you know fairly diverse range work through those and then specifically some of the ones that were kind of hustling within over an IP n and I so I mean I can try and have something much more complete you know for the next meeting target that and that we can see how people feel about it right do they think it\u0027s sufficient you know rights enough information and again just just to convince myself of whether or not we want to do some of these other things right okay okay you see what I just did I closed the tab that had the next presentation in it and now it\u0027s in a place that I had no idea what he what he did how do I get back to where I had my tabs I didn\u0027t close the whole thing of tabs thank you very much all right so we will attempt to reopen the P charge info slides and that\u0027s going to be the very wrong thing nope go away we don\u0027t want that yeah and you\u0027re going hear that and that I don\u0027t think this thing has saved this time maybe after you know some training but so totalizing you\u0027re still there yes Tolga swearin so basically then I submitted this draft because P charge info is used in practice and especially also when still is used mainly in shaking context and it contains "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:40",
    "text": "sensitive information because it pertains to be linked and I would like to hear whether people would have interest in me continuing this work that\u0027s the reason why I submitted it and I received some commands from Krista and taking thank you very much for them so if there is interest and then I will submit a new version with some improvements based on feedback and other missing pieces so next slide please so P charge info right I mean first let\u0027s go over it it\u0027s in use for tempt last year\u0027s globally and it conveys information about the party to be built right and it is a bot be an informational RFC it\u0027s currently in the last call and Pro I guess for another about three weeks or so and they said bitch I that still T charge info is just to provide some verification on day on this sensitive piece of information it\u0027s the main idea behind it and I said if there is interest and I will continue working on it and I was haven\u0027t a new version Chrisman I guess maybe I had two questions one is you know passport is really based on origination destination things I I\u0027m not a P charge info expert but I thought that was something that was more on one side in a trusted domain I get the idea of maybe signing charge info because you don\u0027t want it to change or something like that but I\u0027m a little curious if passports the appropriate mechanism for doing that or you know I don\u0027t have strong feelings about that but I just wanted to bring that up as a potential issue here grocery go ahead notice yes ghost I had a sour I think you had a question I\u0027m worried actually this was what\u0027s going to be used I don\u0027t think I ever get an answer of this because I think this is just used between trusted trusted notes I think that\u0027s what a draft even says so so I had a question about that and unless I missed it I haven\u0027t received an answer but but then I think it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:41",
    "text": "procedure wise I\u0027m a little worried about this because which is also say said here that this is an informational draft it\u0027s the purpose is to describe something which has been deployed and so on so what about if someone comes and say yeah I want to do a passport for the diversion header you know are we gonna do that too and my last comment related to that is that since this is an information on draft or would we do a standard stack trust draft for the passport I mean those things can be sold out but I think yeah I think my technical question is really why why is this needed because it\u0027s used to put in a trusted environment and then so why do you yeah I think you you know the notion of trusted environment it\u0027s probably not 100% black and white so there are really different shades in between and but again I understand I I mean I understand the concern at the point just this is I said I mean I am not sure whether trusted on trust is really an on/off definition John Peterson how long how long have I waited to hear those words Mark Watson what would have been when 3224 was done 1999 something like that we talked about spec T\u0027s and Trust domains the scope of P headers and how they got removed and all the assurances we got about how black and white they were and it would never leak and of course of course it always did but that doesn\u0027t mean that it\u0027s on us to define standards that make up for a problem that we can\u0027t solve and legitimize something that we you know that we know is broken that\u0027s basically what you\u0027re telling me so I mean if you\u0027re asking us to create something with the force of a document that we could have consensus around or on something we know is broken this way that we couldn\u0027t get consists in any of the other documents listed up here and York\u0027s thing and you know then I mean what why would you even imagine when we do this and start - Turner this apart pretty minor comma I just skim the draft really quickly PCI is also an acronym used in another space that\u0027s fairly well known and so I know this is P charge info but there\u0027s this payment card industry thing there might be some confusion so I don\u0027t know maybe pick a different name but like I said if it\u0027s minor thanks my initial feel my initial sense of the feel of the room is that there\u0027s not a lot of enthusiasm for taking this on and pushing it further and in fact a few small but none "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:41",
    "text": "insignificant reasons not to so as I am I am i characterizing that correctly as a million room disagree with that characterization okay togas that do you understand what what I just said sure sure and you know if in the future if somebody suddenly has a change in opinion just they can expressed on their on the list but until then I assume there is no sufficient interests and need to progress this further alright I think that was the last thing we had so do you have any wrap-up items I\u0027ve got one I\u0027d like to get a feel for the folks are here whether or not they think we actually need to meet in we\u0027re going to be in Bangkok and cut next so it feels to me that we\u0027re in a tail mode and with the possible exception of some conversation on the history info call flows drafts I\u0027m having a hard time imagining what we would actually need to to talk about in person sure and this is just irrespective of whether or not want to be in Bangkok that\u0027s something we can we can figure out here but I mean the two things other than that that I think I still kind of need to work on one of them is actually the search stuff sort of starts stuff which has we\u0027ve been ramping up an ACME and figuring out what the right architecture for that is and I think we are reaching a point of coordination between like Acme star and what we want to do for our cases where it might actually possible to take that document we have that\u0027s kind of parked now and say here\u0027s what should go in it it\u0027s I wouldn\u0027t say that\u0027s super pressing but it would be kind of just it would be the stur document that kind of organizes all that Acme work into something that you know explains kind of what the interplay is here it\u0027s probably worth doing that like I said I wouldn\u0027t say it\u0027s super urgent the other thing that I\u0027m kind of interested in is the connected identity stuff that Chris and I batted around last time but did not have time to do anything more for this time but you know if we get motivated and there\u0027s a fire and just try to fix that it\u0027s something we that I keep hearing now in the world that people want it these days so but that that\u0027s highly dependent on basically the usual suspects doing work right you know that sometimes doesn\u0027t get done okay so what we just muttered up here is it sounds like we should request a meeting but it should be short but just clear "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:41",
    "text": "yeah I do think we are and we\u0027re at a point now where we\u0027ve got enough of the core specification out there there\u0027s a lot of deployment implementation interest in this let\u0027s take a look right and see what people do with this and you know like div there gonna be things that rise quickly I imagine that need to get done and so yeah but I mean the good news is that yeah I think we were over the hump on this definitely any other other business I think we\u0027re done thank you very much for your time today [Music] [Music] "
  }
]