[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "everyone could someone send audio make sure I have testing thank you yeah give a few more minutes for people to finish joining"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:22",
    "text": "[Music] the join rate is starting to slow down someone who has access um nud Lars see if he's planning to join thanks everyone for taking time out of your day to visit with the tools team and um help us keep track and on target for our priorities for the things that we're working on the agenda has been out for a couple of days is there anything that anyone would like to add or reorder in the agenda that we've published in the notes all right thank you again for sharing your video we like for this to be an in-person meeting as close as we can get um but do remember that it is being recorded and the recording will be posted at YouTube um after the meeting is over I will jump in then on our hot topics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "uh the hottest topic for most of us that have been working on it is the infrastructure transition project it saw a lot of activity um at the end of the year and um it is very much the the hot working spot for us at the moment we're working on building a road map that we can share with the community to provide insight into um when to expect the different applications that we're working with to move um for now our focus is on having a proof of concept deployed and production of different kinds of applications starting with the simpler ones um we're expecting to have author tools deployed end of this week beginning of of next week we're expecting to have the um analytics. f.org basic Momo instance um deployed by the end of next week and a the wiki the primary um instance of Wiki JS the wiki. f.org instance moved um onto the new fabric by the end of next week as well the will um have exercised us deploying applications that use all of the different kinds of databases that we intend to use and we'll be moving on from those into the more complicated applications like mail archive and the U um data tracker itself we are also working towards having the mail chain transitioned in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "this first bit of work we are um very close to being ready to move to mailman 3 as mentioned before that Ma that transition is going to happen directly on etfa I'm working today on building a message to the community on what to expect when this transition happens for the most part it's going to be um mostly transparent the UI changes from the web- based interface in mman to what borus provides there will be a dance that um people will have to go through to claim the mailman 3 account associated with their email address um the message that I put together will explain this but it will basically be a roundtrip with the website to approve ownership of a mailbox and the U initial transition of mailman 3 mailman 3 will have a different set of credentials then the data tracker credentials like mailman 2 does now and we will subsequently move to integrating mailman 3 with the data tracker to Via oidc to use data tracker credentials to get to the the the mailman admin interface um as many of you have seen before our very long-term plan is for subscribers to not have to interact with post orus directly at all it would only um be U through the data tracker the data tracker would manip manipulate mailman 3 using its rest API on their behalf but moderators would still end up touching posterus to take care of moderator tasks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "all right unless someone has questions or additional um things that they'd like to go into on this high level discussion over infrastructure transition project I'll move on WE we'll be coming back to details on individual things we're transitioning later in the in the call I see two raised hands let's start with John you can tell me whether this should go later but we currently have mailman hacked so basically if you subscribe to any list you can post to every List have we moved that forward or is that stuck with is that related to post confirm so that is tied up with postc confirm and the plan is to move that forward okay so Eric you and see just to say thank you because I did my on my own the mailman 2 to mailman three for my own list is not an easy task and integration of data tracker uh will be very much welcome all right Cindy would you bring us up to date on where we are with the IAB website is Cindy here um I think we lost Cindy but she put her updates in the doc um the public Wiki has been moved to Wiki JS so the I will hopefully sign off on that um this week um and we're just compiling the final bits like the list of redirects um and a couple of small content updates awesome so T be clear speaking of this in terms of transition to the new infrastructure we will deploy the new IE website on itfa replacing the existing website and then move it into the new infrastructure when its turn comes around the next item under Hot Topics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "was to point to the um Clarity feature branch that adds a banner to nonf stream rfc's and internet drafts uh the isg and the stream managers have um approved the what that branch is currently producing and we expect to deploy it um probably Thursday of this week additional eyes on the branch are quite welcome follow the link that's in the notes if you see anything that looks a Miss let us know um we would appreciate the opportunity to correct it before it hits production all right those were primarily the things that I expected that we would spend a lot of time talking about and we haven't spent a lot of time talking um the we've got the FYI and some discussion of the transition projects below um I will touch on those briefly but for the format for these calls in general I would like to take these sections as red so unless somebody has has questions about the follow on to the deployment of feat RFC I'm going to move past that one the same with our next post confirm change although John if you wanted to just briefly sketch what that PR is actually doing for people so they don't have to decode it it might be nice yeah I'm trying to remember this this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "this is this the one that fixes the the bounce address or is this more than that it's it's the last one that you put in so it it it applies the fix to the bounce address to more things I believe yeah I mean the given the uh always exciting interaction with large male systems and their and their and their more strict authentication rules um forwarding stuff is really hard and so what what we are now doing for forwarded mail is that we are trying very hard not to change the content so it has a deom signature the deom signature remains valid which makes most recipient mail systems happy and for things that AR deim signed um if we just forward it without changing the bounce address the existing um bounce address will be that of the original sender which you know and and the SPF validation will fail because it's coming from our our server rather than their server so we so we basically invented a fake address forwarding something at i.org and we're going to put that balance address on everything that gets forwarded so that would means that at least at Google and maybe Microsoft that makes stuff more likely to be to to be accepted because then the at least the SPF will will always be valid I mean I think in the longer run I think we're gonna have to think harder about how to make forwarding work as the rules get harder and harder but you know it's first as a short-term Band-Aid this certainly won't hurt and it'll make things a little easier and as always like if the change makes if if we make the change and you see things are worse let us know we can try and figure out like did we break something or we just noticing something that was broken all along all right so things that we have in transition at the moment we've moved the Yang catalog into digital ocean as a um temporary step um the instructions to bring up an instance from scratch have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "some gaps and the configuration of the system as it comes up from scratch have some gaps um Joe Clark has been working um calling in from his vacation to um help close some of those gaps the service that we have deployed at the moment is not fully functional there are some missing modules and Joe is going to be diving in to find out why they haven't been picked up but it's not likely to happen again until next week when Joe has um Cycles to dive in to look oh and Joe came in right as we were finishing there you go yeah yeah sorry I had had to take care of something yeah uh Robert said it well um essentially the it is the vendor modules so Cisco Huawei um Juniper that are missing and for the life of me I haven't been able to determine why so I want to look at what they had what Pantheon had and and see what were missing um there are a lot of moving Parts open search the The Cisco confd Reus um and some magical incantation is is likely going to allow that all to work uh however for the most part the tools are working with the it F modules and as far as I can tell all of the ETF modules are there um so things like the uh search the module details the impact analysis those are all working uh right now with the digital ocean instance we just need to figure out why those vendor modules aren't coming in one of the other um portions of the application that's not yet functional is the um oidc authentication for the administration so section of the website we've Band-Aid that by blocking the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "basically gating traffic to it using Cloud flare until we can um straighten out why oidc is not um being used as we expected it would have been by the by the Admin and the API admin portions of the site most most of the rest of these things that are in transition I'm going to leave to be taken as readed unless somebody has questions about them we touched on the high points that are in here um I will call people's attention if you've not read carefully to read the section on mailman 3 and how much of the prep for what we're doing for mailman 3 is feeding actually back into the mailman m 3 project next we've got a series of updates on the development work that's continuing to happen in parallel with the uh work on changing the infrastructure that we're deploying on again I'd like to take most of these as read quite a lot happened with the data tracker um quite a lot has been happening with XML RSC we have um significant progress happening on preparing the mail archive for the infrastructure transition and there is a lot of work going into um the modernization of the rpc's workflow and and editing not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "as much as we would like on those latter because we are spending quite a lot of time on the infrastructure transition but they are not at a dead stop anyone have any questions on any of the above all right we're now to the open discussion in any other business section of the meeting if there is something that you think we should be addressing that we're not if there is anything at all that you'd like to bring up for discussion just one thing uh Roman brought the staging discussion to the isg we have not yet reached um a decision simply because we were not even too many people in the last week T chat uh I guess it will be U on Thursday this week but of course the discussion will be the result will be yes right in a sense remove and Purge the staging directory there yep that is the plan and for those that haven't seen this go by there's a directory that for um historic reasons is completely exposed at www.f.org that is the place that people who are that that submissions of drafts are uploaded into other submissions of other things also uploaded into it but for the purposes of this conversation we're talking about drafts um it is not being groomed over time so there are things lying around there for um a couple of decades um it's inconsistently what has and hasn't been removed we're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "adopting a new policy to remove things and in the long term moving to a model where that is not a publicly exposed um thing at all that um internet draft submitters um the a a draft that has not yet moved all the way to posted would only be viewable by the submitters and authors so U requiring data tracker account access and that's uh that's the thing that the um one of the things that the isg is going to be discussing Jay you had entered the queue mine is a separate point to this okay um somebody has questions then I think we can move on yeah go ahead please uh so just to update you all that we have um now employed another developer uh um he will be starting in mid-February um we budgeted for um one or possibly two more developers um as we continue to um invest heavily in our software development side um we'll introduce him closer to the time I think than now but just to give you a heads up with that's to way yeah the Q management part of the new medical interface looks intriguing um pop quiz at the end of the call are there any topics that people here would like to spend time discussing as a group at one of the upcoming tools team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "meetings if anything pops the top of your head jump in with it now otherwise um feel free to send a note to the list or directly to me this is a time that we can use to have a group discussions of um some of the thornier things that um we're facing and I apologize for not having a couple of them queued up um on this call for us to to spend time on I remind everybody that we moved March's meeting the meeting after next a week early to avoid the travel window for people that are um traveling to the ietf meeting in Brisbane beyond that I think we've hit the end of our agenda and I want to thank everyone again for investing their time and we will see you thank you Robert"
  }
]
