[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:13",
    "text": "oh one give it a minute or two we have time I I think we're gonna have to hold it because this does not Define so while we are waiting another minute please do make sure you log in with the big QR code thingy up there or your laptop one of the two so we get accurate counts of who's in the room it's important to get a big room so while we get started um I'm Wes hertiger and I'll turn it over to Joey here in a minute uh that today's graphic every time I have these skewed up graphics and I keep finding better stuff and I have to thank Michael Richardson for actually finding this he actually saw this sticker on somebody's laptop and actually sent me a picture of it and I assume you found like the actual Source image on Amazon or something yeah so uh so this is today's today's graphic is sponsored by Michael Richardson all right so let's get this party started so hi everybody uh welcome to this ITF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "session of Dance um we are your chairs with and Joey um a reminder for the people the new arrivals to scan the QR code to make sure that you are signed in the blue sheets next slide please all right so let's begin by mentioning the note wheel um which I'm sure most of you are already pretty familiar with either with the at this ITF meeting or at the previous ones um this is to highlight um for you guys to remember that um there could be some legal repercussions right or some legal implications to some um actions here right to keep it to keep that in mind right Wes next slide please and then the second part of the note will is to highlight some important BCPS uh like BCP 54 that includes the code of conduct which is uh mentioned in the next slide all right so the most important thing here is to continue treating everybody with respect this group has constantly been quite respectful right so let's keep that going um let's try to speak slowly and clearly remembering that not everybody is an English native speaker right uh so on that on that's on that note and also um uh let's not be afraid to ask somebody to repeat themselves or ask slower or speak more clearly all right uh similar reasoning for whenever we are discussing stuff right and well a couple more notes up there next slide please yep um so here we have some dance information right pointing to the data tracker the mailing list uh hopefully"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "you've all already survived I mean subscribe to it and also hopefully you will survive the mailing list discussions um and yeah hopefully you've also read uh at least the abstracts of the of the three drops that the working group is currently dealing with next slide please um so another reminder that this session is being recorded and very very important for everybody to remember to wear your masks um unless you're actively at the mic right and then uh in that case it will be optional um so here this couple of notes for both in person and remote participants and I think we can proceed to the next slide all right so this is for the agenda and I don't know first uh West did I miss anything in the previous slides no all right all right so um thank you first off for the note takers Jim Fenton and Tim wazinski you have both offered to take notes um I'm sure that they would appreciate help in fact I know that they would the note taking application is a little pencil icon on the agenda and the more people that help the easier it is for everybody um so we're going to start off with the sort of the current document status and then talk about working group activity level discussions a little bit as we always do and then the two presentations we have today are sort of one is about the architecture and the other is about sort of some dance use cases um we'll have an open mic for anybody that wants to discuss other things and then if you guys don't use it all of the time the scary chairs are going to introduce a topic because because you guys didn't give us enough agenda material so uh what's our current document status we have three documents one is the ietf dance architecture and then the two other are the TLs Dane client ID and the Dane client ID certificate the last two we have just put into last call yesterday so awesome uh that we have actually progressed to the last call stage in two of the documents uh these"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "came in the door to dance you know pretty well established and it was time to kick them in uh so we set a three-week last call and Joey and I did it I want to say two days ago so it puts the three-week expiration on November 29th so please do read comment uh most importantly indicate whether there are changes needed and even if you see nothing wrong please indicate on the mailing list that you are happy with the documents and they are ready to progress and you support them uh we need active counts of who has read it the mailing list activity is still generally you know pretty slow there was actually a fair amount in September but only three in October and and they were announcement related stuff not actually active discussion and uh zero in August but everybody takes vacation in August so um we still wonder you know uh maybe there's just not that much to do but we have so many interesting use cases we'd love to see them discussed more so with that we are going to turn it over um to the to I guess we agreed uh you were going to go first right okay with the architecture document so let me load your slides and you're welcome to come up okay next so I'm Ole Johansson I got dragged into this by Ash who started it all uh by not keeping my mouth shut and now I'm standing here uh we can take the next slide we're going through the documents uh the way I see us sorting out the documents because I have a big problem with the current architecture document is to have one document that covers the general idea of dancing right an architecture document and then we have documents now about secure dancing meaning the TLs changes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "and I would like to see how to dance a document that is if I have my own protocol how would I implement this how would I write a document what are the requirements for applying dance to all kinds of protocols then we have dancing with Wes or Joey or something else that is protocol specific currently the architecture document I'll have a little bit of everything I think Ash has just collected all kinds of information you know rather unstructured way and I would very much like to organize up that so this is how I see us sorting out at least the horse addiction architecture document that I'm struggling with next so it's a mess as I make sure a lot of things and I can definitely go in and cut out a lot of stuff but then I need some responses I can do pull requests or something so I need someone to step forward say yeah let's do that uh we have one pull request now that will add a lot of information on lauravan I would like that to be a separate document on how to dance with lauravan and maybe have just a small use case mentioned in the architecture document yeah we have someone in the queue Rick go ahead hi my name is Rick Moran I'm a modern dancer but also I was with this group when it was founded lost track of it I'm afraid um what we discussed in the beginning is will be really attractive to have users just people behind browsers or behind a milltool to also be able to use something that t less and authenticate towards towards an end point I didn't find it back in the architecture would"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "search it such an extension be welcomed is that the sort of thing you're asking about sorry I think once again um the dance standards speak predominantly about devices that register as clients it doesn't speak of end users people sitting behind desks and that is the sort of thing we discussed okay I have a slide coming up on that okay um so in this direction we've done a lot of architecture work and we might be able to help uh dmess or upmiss the spec great I mean that's basically how I entered into this because I had been spending too much many years in Sip and then see if we have user related things and I think this could be beneficial facility but we need to have some concern there as well so that was my starting point in this so yes okay we have our candidate to help me next slide please uh I've seen in the documents we have that all of them refer to a very flat namespace and I talked with some of the DNS gurus that I regularly meet for various reasons from fish and ships to real DNS discussions and they say that well you really want to consider that if you're going to have a lot of entries you may not need a flat namespace you need a tree of some kind like enamor ptrs for DNS to be able to manage this properly uh for me this is how to dance a requirements document for setting up various records types and so next and if we like Rick Mansion producers into dancing then we really need to consider how we can protect the privacy of these uh I've checked around and talked with people and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "there are a couple of documents describing ways to handle this by putting hashes into DNS instead of saying oag at Edwina net or something like that and this could also be mentioned in the requirements document on protocol implementation next Rick is the queue I don't know if you want to oh yes absolutely sorry I don't know if it's okay to interrupt Rick from Ryan modern dancer um one one other way typical of keyless a records would be to have a root certificate Authority that's representing their plans yep cool let's discuss that Brendan hello I just want to know if you have seen RFC 6920 naming things with hashes it's a surprise Uris containing hash extensions great I think this is just experimental or informational so okay well it just seems relevant RFC 6920 1620. I'll get that from the notes thank you next or did we have go ahead Paul sorry I'm not too customer um just just a check on the previous comment I'm actually the author of this RFC um there is some subtlety there because with SMTP on the email level There's issues where Paul with a capital P is a different endpoint and Paul with a lowercase p and in DNS you have no K sensitivity so so there are some more complications if you're doing anything with users mapping to DNS great we have a lot of input for writing that properly thank you so now I'm stepping on shimon's toes a little bit here but I prepared him for that uh the the clients are document uh we could take into a implementation requirement document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "but since we're entering uh last call we may have to reconsider that it was just an idea uh we need to find candidates people that can help us write protocol specific documents so we at least get a few up on the table early so we can test our ideas and focus on where we have energy in the group not just all the ideas that was in the original architecture document we need at least one for the underscore service and one for underscore device one document each one example if we still want them both and maybe discuss if we want some other tags I'm kind of hesitant for underscore service because it kind of syntactically is very close to the tags used for SRV records and it's only half the tag for SRV we have service and protocol and right now the document refers to that registry but only use half of it and we need to figure out if there are other patterns we can use not only email addresses or device IDs or so uh how to code an identity into a DNS name but uh as well said we need energy so we maybe we should try to get more practical closer to the real application problem we do need a TLS extension so Sherman a big thank you for promoting that and moving that forward but uh now we need to start looking to rest next I know that there was some code somewhere at some point I lost track of it but do we need to prepare some cool stuff happening maybe a hackathon next to ATF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "and look into some libraries like I mean this won't get anywhere unless open SSL and the libraries people use have it so curl open SSL some server some co-op libraries something need to figure out how this works and how big changes we need to do to the existing platforms okay yeah see what that was any questions that is the last slide any discussion on the architecture document um originally in the charter during the buff we agreed that the uh the architecture document would be part of the deliverables but we knew that the other ones were sort of you know much more done but this really describes the use cases that most people had a hard time wrapping their head around by just reading the protocol documents so hence this is an important one Jim hi Jim Fenton um as I was reading through the architecture document I got to this section on use cases and I thought oh great this is going to describe the problem that we're solving and it seems to just dump jump right into details without describing the problem so I'd like to suggest that some use case information you know you know probably the problem statement therapy be included somewhere yep I mean those details is the stuff I want to move to the other documents I'm proposing to make the architecture more an architecture overview foreign so I think I'm going next so I have a bunch of comments on your slides so should I do it up up front because I'd like to watch I use lights later that might be easier okay you're cool okay Michael Richardson so um one of the things I quickly noticed today was that there are other documents don't actually reference the architecture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "um that might be intentional so that they don't get caught in that um but I suspect it should be a normative reference um but that's a decision to make about what we're doing so so let me ask a follow-up question to that um I don't remember the intended status of the architecture document but there's a good question whether it be proposed or informational and I think I could make arguments either way so I will let the working group decide what to do but is there something in the architecture document that should be normatively referenced like you cannot and you cannot do or implement the other protocol pieces without it without having read it that it's the having read it that's the point it's you know so we may not have protocol content uh but generally they're informative not not pro not proposed and so referencing them non-normatively is okay um so just something we should think about before we get too far um for the simple reason that if we suddenly change things then we're going to change our our timing uh and our process for these documents so I think that's an important part so that's a good point so can I ask you a favor and on the mailing list respond I'm with the last call comments about okay I'm going to say exactly that yeah so but I thought it should be useful to do that as well um the the other thing that that I I wonder about and based upon my understanding of where we're going is that one of the things that this is totally unrelated sorry um second comment um one of the the scenarios that we imagined is that a manufacturer creates device populates it with certificate which they populate into manufacturer's DNS Zone and device says I am device 4378 blah blah blah blah and that gets us out of the whole a lot of our our issues"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "okay so that's a kind of well-established pattern the question is are there scenarios where owner operator of device actually wants to own that zone and I think that it doesn't matter from the other end's point of view from the the there what it is but if that is that if it is a scenario that we want to support then we probably need to decide somehow it goes somewhere and I'm actually not sure that it's not another document or I'm not even sure it requires any text but it is a different pattern of who trusts who and um and it also matters who you're talking to and there was a bunch of of comments about you know browsers and this kind of stuff I'm pretty sure that I'm not going to get a browser with a ID in google.com if it's Chrome right so I'm pretty sure that the browser use case if someone has that that the DNS identity that I assert as a client is going to be in my zone or in some friendly zone so that's a case of that that I think that if that's the space we want to go into that it immediately invokes that other other piece of space I think the important thing to remember from a dance work item point of view is what in order to support these use cases and I think all of your use cases are wonderfully valid and should go into the architecture document as possibilities what use cases require changes or additions to the DNS or the DNS protocol itself or the TLs protocol so the interesting thing is that I don't think there's any on The Wire changes I think it's conceptual changes and as to what's going on and so I think it's more subtle that's why I think it's difficult to decide whether what we need to say because in some ways there's nothing to say right um it just works it should just work but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "but suddenly says well but hang on here what's the what's the relationship that I have or what are the other things and I think we're going to get Security review feedback on that question and so either we say as little as possible or we wind up having to say a lot well it kind of borders to BCP but your question is basically I mean if I have a device ID and the manufacturer creates an entry and I want to take over that if I create an answer should it be my zone or should I've been his uh we need to figure out what we want right and do we allow to concurrent the entries in different DNS for the same device I don't think we can even we I don't think we can even control it right in particular I could go and copy your entries out of your Zone and put them in my zone without your knowledge um that may be meaningless foreign ownership from the manufacturers it's very complex but yeah I think we should mention it absolutely we have a couple protocols for doing that but and that's where I'm actually coming from ah yeah thank you so Joey just pointed out this is a great discussion for the mailing list that doesn't have enough traffic on it so uh Michael let's start a thread please and Ben hi I want to support what Michael was saying that if if we don't have a clear solution to this problem dance risks creating an enormous amount of E-Waste gener and generally making the sort of obsolescence and lock-in problems of iot works because it creates an authentication Paradigm where the device can only authenticate to anything if uh if it is if the Zone the manufacturer zone is still live basically and if the manufacturer goes out of business or drops this product line then the device is bricked so I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "really think we should not end up in that situation and I do think that there is some actual protocol level work to talk about there for example being able to con ask the device in a standard way what is your what is your tlsa and potentially for example defining a profile that really says you use the Dane ee mode because the other modes are not as portable okay I think that's a good point too um I mean the Tails extension covers that a little bit too um again having these discussions on the mailing list would be absolutely fantastic and I think I think one of the takeaways that I heard from this conversation personally is there may be elements of the architecture document that might actually pull into some of the protocol documents to make sure that the protocol document is Standalone enough so especially I hope you might have guidance you know with that of what pieces might be injectable into the other ones if we feel that the last call is not a readable document on its own that's an important I would personally like to focus on those should take your documentary get in that into shape by throwing out bits and pieces and leave the leftovers somewhere else in the GitHub repo and then we'll start working with the bits and pieces but trying to get an architecture document that is easy to read and get an overview of the protocol like we said earlier the solution I don't quite remember but was the GitHub repo uh studying the additional resources for this draft because if it's not then it would be very very good to put it there architecture document I'm still have to force Shimon to bring his documents into"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the same GitHub repo and so we have everything in there but feel free to go in there and do pull requests and help us okay thank you very much thank you uh shiman you don't have slides right that's mirror collection thank you yeah I don't have science am I ready to go okay um so uh although I may refer to all those slides if you don't mind so you may want to put those back um so before I start I just wanted to before I forget I wanted to quickly mention uh to all those questions about implementations uh AF Nick the French registry actually has one so I think Sanders if you're here you are yeah he may want to mention that when he speaks later on so I just want to put in a plug for that uh on uh all those points so the architecture document I agree it's a little bit unstructured uh in my view it was intended generally to be a general framework to describe how things use uh dance not about specific application use cases but over time what happened was people to kind of describe how the things work they had to describe applications so that's why iot came in and various other things and I think one of the prop challenges is the application architecture for iot may be significantly different from something else like SMTP Transport Security or Sith for example so that makes it a little bit challenging so we should take in that into consideration if we want to as you suggested separate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "we have a separate architecture document and a use case document so we need to figure out how how those two would work in concert so that is my comment about that um so um on always assertion that most of the our docs document a flat namespace I don't actually think I agree with that um the record name format specifically defines a structure that is very amenable to hierarchical structure right so uh I would like to Olay to read the document and tell me if you disagree and I can explain to you why that is we can elaborate and I can show you examples maybe the couple of examples that we gave show something that looks like a non-hierarchical namespace but it's perfectly amenable to doing supporting that and both the examples both the server-specific identity and the device specific identity those are the two examples uh that we put in which is um I don't remember if any of the current documents really discuss handling transfer of ownership so when a device moves from you know one manufacturer to be owned by an institution that that or that wants to overtake the the client authentication yeah they don't right so that's a good thing so that would be an iot iot architecture specific discussion uh that doesn't belong in the two protocol documents I wrote belongs somewhere I think so that's a very good point um as far as the email like record name formats I think Ole has affect where you're coming from is the Sip user case which uses those types of identities so um again the draft uh if you read the draft carefully it's not prescriptive about the record name format so it shows two examples"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "none of them uh hashes any component of the client identity because the two examples were a service uh specific identity and a device identity presumably those are not as privacy sensitive so if a Dane client application we're using uh email like identities or sip user agents I think it would be perfectly appropriate for them to use the what about the truncated hash formats that you have in your document and and ask my absurd is the other one that uses that format I think right so um if if it helps to include an example of such a record name then we can do that I have no objection to doing that sorry parlocks uh just you're referring to the the open PHP hashing mechanism yeah that's not a privacy mechanism that's just a normalization so you can you shouldn't be using that as a security that's a masking or hiding identity property it's definitely not meant for that okay fair enough no security right okay yeah so there's an open question then if you're using applications that have privacy sensitive client identities should we use should you be using this protocol at all right so that's another question um I'm not going to answer that now people want to weigh in on that please do so are you in the queue yeah um yes it would be helpful to have an example for a client at using uh youth at domain name example okay um personally I would also be interested to have something that's not for a specific service like I'm happy but also to have something that just says in general I use all sorts of protocols and this is the identity I'm using this is the Dane record that specifies it I do not care or do not feel that it's uh in line with my privacy to publish all sort of protocols I'm using so maybe something with a wild card that might do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "this sure yeah it's a wild cards and Dane ta is one way to solve that right so yeah I feel really care because World Cup's really difficult but yeah yep sure um so yeah I guess the question is that discussion does that belong in the protocol document or some application architecture document we have to figure that out right um all right so let me uh Okay so your other comment about uh the uh service specific identity only including one half of an SRV record that's true that was deliberate because we thought it probably won't be the case that a client would have uh distinct security credentials for distinct transport protocols UDP or DCP right so if you want to make a case that they should and then we should design a record name format that accommodates that we can discuss that it's just I didn't think there was a need to do that um okay so I think that's the bulk of my comments back to you Olay and feel free to uh engage us on suggested changes to the core protocol documents their last call but you know we can take additional feedback and and adapt them as needed all right I'm Victory syndicate oh yeah Victor [Music] Victor go ahead hear me in the last meeting the topic came up of having yet another TLS extension that asks servers to solicit a client certificate I haven't had a chance to progress that uh is there still need or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "interest in seeing that move forward ah very good question Victor yeah I think you anticipated something I was about to say so Michael Richardson and I just had a chat about this prior to this meeting and we do we were intending to put out a draft so this is the TLS extension to explicitly solicit a Certificate request message from the server is that right I was uh Victor uh agreed but yes we are planning to write that I think there's several people uh who have come up with use cases for that we do intend to do that I was gonna make an attempt to put it out before itf115 I failed uh but we will do it uh the question is that extension is more General in nature than dance so should it go to the TLs working group or where should that work be done so that's there is an open question about that is an excellent question I think the dance chairs will have to climb it closely how do we get the document out and then we can negotiate between the dance chairs and the TLs chairs where the best place for it to actually be published is okay right here's a personal document for now and then okay great that sounds good to me it's hard to talk about a document that's not written yeah I agree um and I think that's all I had oh there's one last topic so the other thing that's come up a few times is uh the suggestion about doing uh Dane Klein authentication another way such as moving the authentication to the application layer using TLS exported authenticators and Channel Finding uh I don't think I didn't see any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "appetite for uh for for uh proposing such a mechanism but anyone wants to do that that's there's an open question there right but I I don't think we're planning to do that right now putting it in the TLs deck go ahead so this is so that uh right now the pr authentication happens in the TLs layer right so there's a mechanism well TLS exported authenticators where you can do it at the application layer and then communicate the results back and bind it to the TLs Channel underneath right so that makes it um there's a set of use cases like I can't remember all of them but if you want to do things like uh you know authenticate with a different certificate later rather than a different identity later in the Taylor stream or a variety of other things you can do that right so the problem I think this poses for dance clients is that each application has to complicate their infrastructure by implementing this authentication of the app layer rather than just punting it to the TLs layer right it's it's easier for applications there may be some benefits of security advantages to the applicational layer authentication architecture but uh I don't I don't see anyone jumping uh up and proposing to do it that way right so Victor you have an open mic but not a queue there we go go ahead um right on that topic uh you know if we were to attempt to authenticate let's say uh email users to their submission service uh then indeed an application layer authentication makes a bit more sense and then one would want such a mechanism to ultimately be a sassal mechanism uh leveraging tls's export capabilities and so on so we would design a new Cecil mechanism that incorporates today on the other hand if we're talking MTA to MTA"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "uh then the current kind of ntls that client auth makes more sense yep thanks uh and I think that's all I had right all right sorry um Rick foreign I I'm still figuring out what you mean exactly but when it hits upon authentication and extracting either identities or keying material I'm very eager to look at that at least and not say no at this point sure okay yeah let's have a chat about it later and then we can we can discuss thanks uh maybe also um talking a bit more about it in the mailing list your mom hi my name is sandosha and today this is one of the use cases for the dance working group so lauravan is a long range wide area network it is the iot technology that comes under the lp van range LP van is local right area network so here we are using the technology as low very low bandwidth next track please so lauravan also has the usual challenges like in other iot Technologies where the key needs to be shared with different stakeholders so these are the root keys for the device which needs to be shared with different stakeholders who will be operating at the IP end so that is a problem and that is a problem for all most of the iot Technologies so next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "so this is the architecture for lauravan it's a star topology where we have the end device and the end device is connected to the radio Gateway via the Laura technology and after that uh in the internet side we have different stakeholders a different servers sorry the NS is the network server JS is the joint server and the as is the application server so there are cases these different servers can be operated or managed by same stakeholders or could be operator or managed by different stakeholders so what happens is that there are two keys here root Keys here one is the network key and the application key so the network key and the application key is with the device during the manufacturing stage and after that those two keys are AES 128-bit symmetric Keys has to be shared with the stakeholders in the internet side either the network server needs to have the network key the application server needs to have the application app Root key so yeah so this enables so the price sharing is needed to enable the iot device onboarding so the com once the for communication the the communication between the end device and the network server is encrypted why are the session Keys generated by these Network root key and the communication between the end device and the application server is encrypted by the session Keys generated by the app key so that is for end-to-end but uh for this to be done we have the JS which is the join server it acts as the AAS server authentication and authorization server so the network server and the AS application server needs to communicate with the Js"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "so for this they need to do Mutual authentication and as per the lorovan specifications how the network server for example the network server and the joint server mutually authenticate each other is not normative so it is up to the implementer's point of view how how they do that so what we try to do is that we wanted to do with the web pki when we wanted when we do with the whip pick I and the certificate Authority model uh we found out certain issues for example from a cost point of view Laura is like one euro per year and if we need to buy a certificate for doing this much Mutual authentication then that is an issue another issue is that the protocol stack that this network server or the application server uses they don't have the ca bundle as in the case of the web browsers so also we were not able to use certificates like let's encrypt because here the device here the identification is hierarchical and it's like a Mac ID we had which has 16 digits and it is possible that there is a point between these 16 digits and so let's couldn't do it more than eight labels so these are the different issues that we found out so the solution was that using selfline certificates but when we use self-signed certificates what happens is that uh there is a requirement for all the servers in in this ecosystem needs to get from one root CA and that is an issue so next slide please so Dane Comes This Dance architecture and the Dane client ID and Lane certificate authorization drafts comes as a solution for this issue where we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "need not have a single root CA we can have Federated Cas and each of these C ecosystem or the servers could have could create self-signed certificates but could authenticate between the servers in the different ecosystem based upon client or add an identity so we had an implementation and this implementation has been presented during the ietf 113 and my colleague here a gal he has implemented that and next slide please excellent sorry so I I'm not going into the details of this because these are already been implemented so my colleague here he took the go library of uh Dane tlsa authentication that is done by Shimon and he developed it and uh he implemented both the client ID and the client certificate draft so these are the details of what has been done so this we we were able to test with the different uh servers which had a root CS from different certificate authorities of self-signed certificates and were able to mutually authenticate each other each other so that was a point that was one that's why we are here because it proves that uh the Dane uh the dance working group uh documents uh or the work enables Mutual authentication with the Federated CS and uh yeah ID of one on five next slide please we were sorry yeah uh this is not actually client-side authentication but uh because for the I from the end device point of view uh it needs the server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "needs to be authenticated so my colleague here implemented that also he tried to send the DNS authentication chain from the server side to the device even though the network is very constrained we were we fragmented the complete uh chain to so that the device can authenticate the server but I think this is not part of the dance chart on it so that's any questions okay thank you for the excellent use case is uh anybody have questions about it I see people leaning but not standing okay I think that's good um Joey we have 15 minutes left do you think the dance working group is ready for The Talk I think it's time to get scary foreign I hope that sounded ominous no is there a way to force meet Echo to reload slow where is the reload button thank you it did not reload the rate list"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "it's not ready to be shared pretty scary well I can do it through screen sharing too is the other option so I will do that yeah I'll I'll do a screen sharing too scary yes foreign so we need to discuss something about how Protocols are made and they they go through many changes you may have noticed that that we're changing a little bit as we as we move toward last call and and things are developing and changes are happening see first off protocol start is just this fledgingly of specification and they're not able to dance yet they have they haven't actually done much in life they're brand new and so first they must learn to interoperate and play nicely together and they get together and they play and they learn how to behave and be nice I found a bunch of pictures of not nice that I did not put on this slide but um it was tempting eventually specifications decide what they want to be when they grow up and they they really mature and that's what last call is all about right we push these specifications to the point where they know what they're going to do in life this is what we hope this is what we aim for um but I searched for work by the way I just have to call this out the one on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "the left you know the minor came up and I thought well Bitcoin miner that's you know like it's perfect that's that's a protocol sorry but to reach adulthood it requires testing it requires compatibility it requires making sure that things work well together and that is that is critical so we scary chairs have a few questions even if you answered some of these questions before in fact we've just heard a couple in the presentations I encourage you to answer them again but I'm I'm looking for commitments I'm looking for who's actually done something I'm actually feeling like I'm running my second buff for the day because I just ran one last session and now I have some questions they're going to sound very buff-like so in the beginning we need implementations so I actually have you know questions of because it's been working on implementations on the client side on the server side are there any obstacles we've had some stuff at the hackathon so the hold up thank you so one of the first questions is I am planning on implementing Dane Technologies right you're an implementer I'm going to put it into the counting Cube because I'm curious how many people out there are actually going to actively work on this if you do not raise your hand that means that you are intentionally prohibiting and going to get in the way of somebody implementing so just don't don't use the do not raise hand button it doesn't make sense that is true Christopher go ahead and talk if you're raising your hand that way otherwise you're clicking the wrong"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "raise hand button this is not my first buff today I'm experienced and I know why people did that all right so excellent so that actually shows 11 people that are you know actively working on deploying or implementing I should say dance Technologies I think that's very good although there's eight people that I can get in your way so I watch out for them but okay great is there anybody that wants to speak to the challenges of oops did I just make the slides anybody that wants to speak to the challenges of of anything you encountered that wasn't a surmountable no okay well I'm not directly uh answering your question but I was just reminded that uh I think Robert Moskowitz uh dropped in some questions earlier today about Dane and did we about dance and did we address them um I think one of them was he wanted to ask whether we should Define a new Dane usage mode and Michael already answered and I think I agree with him I don't see any need it's probably going to be Dane e or Dane ta so unless there's a compelling rationale for new semantics associated with the Dane usage mode I don't think we need one yeah I think that's an excellent question and I I had the same brain thinking wow I hadn't thought of that but um okay but I just wanted to ask aloud to see if anyone else had any contrary thoughts and the second question uh was a little bit more interesting he asked whether we need to define a new Dane selector for seabor encoded certificates"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and that one I'm not sure I have an opinion on but uh like to see if anyone else does so right now if I recall the Dane spec has two selectors one is the full certificate in endure format and one is the subject public key info in their format or or a raw public key there's nothing else I wanted to say there was more than one I'm sure Victor will Shaman and give us an exact list off the top of his head but yep there he is is there are there three really Victor why don't you answer the question since I'm blanking on it in front of a room indeed uh there are only two selectors it's the public key and the full binary blob uh the binary blob I guess is defined to be der uh but really I don't think it was necessarily the case that it must be there it's just the full certificate in whatever form it appears in so we could make that clearer or Define a new selector um is seabor supported in TLS you see the tlsa record is TLS specific if seabor is outside TLS then the whole question is kind of moot right because it's no longer tlsa um so I've never seen TLS use Seaboard coated certs uh so I don't know what we're talking about exactly I mean so I think Victor your point is perfect right if you're if you're doing the whole blog or even just the key then it doesn't matter because we are taking a we're taking it at its word right we don't actually specify what the encoding of The Blob is um Rick fluorine I'm so eager about client certificate recognition I already have to implemented in a TLS demon where I go all the way look up sap record and showing dnsack looking up an ldap server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "parsing what's in there and so on and so on I'm really eager to rip that out because nobody's using it and I would very much like to have something as simple and elegant as this excellent okay uh any other comments on that I think we probably have time for one more question then so my next question is going to be I am planning on deploying dance so we need operators right we need people that actually you own a dnsl and you own something rather where you can actually make use of dance technology I don't care if it's a gigantic infrastructure you know a company that's going to deploy millions of iot devices or if you're just going to use it you know in your small operational Network foreign could mean I plan to never deploy dance that might be the way to think about it note that you can unclick and you can you know choose to do nothing as well which is meaning you're not going you're not sure yet okay I think that looks pretty good um as I said in the last buff I just drilled we don't actually attract operators here much you know the ITF is not an operator convention so um having having any is actually somewhat of a good sign um if anybody wants to stand or raise hands to speak to how they are planning on using it um aside from we've seen some you know presentations in the past anybody that hasn't spoken yet that wants to give a quick description we'd love to hear it thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "foreign with no hands I think we are near end of time so I'm going to give Joey the microphone so she can close us out um well I guess we can just close for now with yet another reminder to try and keep the oh we have somebody here all right good idea you need to ask if if there's participants that want to discuss something well uh what topics do you think should we should be discussing at the interim and are there other people that feel the same way you put it another way the chairs are always happy to hold meetings that's never a problem Michael Richardson the microphone so I think the short of it is that we need to have deadlines earlier than March and virtual interims are good ways to do that we had a lot of discussions about things about the hat to go to the list and this and that and that you know usually motivates people so what are the topics pretty much everything we talked about I think that the architecture document and the other use cases we're not in uh we are in working group last call for some of them so that may be appropriate after that point to deal with whatever issues that we can't res authors can't resolve so I wouldn't mind seeing two virtual interims before the next ietf that would be my goal I think we would make much better progress that way okay that's good I mean so we are your chairs and we will do whatever the group wants in at your behest so it sounds like probably January for an interim um and what we will do is propose that people pitch topics for they actually want to discuss right so we actually drug you guys drug agenda items out for this one in probably even the last hour"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "so we need we need stuff more in advance uh it's very hard to put together an agenda at the last second so yeah I guess uh the very least it could be a follow-up on the topic streamon was uh telling us about um but yeah just like we said it will definitely be mostly up to you guys all right so then that seems to be it for today um thank you everybody and see you next time"
  }
]
