[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "a lot of things for good night good morning it\u0027s 9:30 so we\u0027re gonna get started welcome to dead net thank you for staying until Friday we have I\u0027m Lu Berger patellar and the Archos is joining us as a new chair I will talk about chairs in a moment our secretary is remote see if this works there we go no that\u0027s so we\u0027re actually going to start out by calling Deborah surprise surprise so we\u0027ve seen this a couple of times but this is Det Annette this is Pat\u0027s working group so we really want to state a special tribute and thanks to Pat as we\u0027ve heard that who\u0027s retiring so they\u0027re retiring okay so as we know Pat\u0027s retiring and well we\u0027re very sad to say goodbye to her we do wish her all the best and happiness going forward so we have something for her and then because she only brings a carry-on with her and purposely got her something really heavy so but it\u0027s small hey hey thank thank her for this she really kicked off the debt net and really made sure we stayed with I Triple E and I have on this slide I mean she she she\u0027s much more beyond the debt net she has been the go-to person for ietf for anything on entrepot a most poor she helped kicked off the coordination group in 2012 which has made a huge difference in the relationship we just had the meeting this morning we meet once a week even here at ITF and it really makes the things go smoothly and and it\u0027s really of course the people involved and Pat\u0027s one of those people anyway we think 50 was her first IETF probably it could have been earlier and in 802 they had a big thank thank you to her because she "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "is known to have been the one to have she\u0027s chaired and held leadership positions the most of anybody at most varieties so we were really thankful to have her here as our debt net chair for these first couple of years and going forward of course we have a very good video knows to continue on but we will miss her so thank you all make me proud let\u0027s get this thing finished up so I hope we\u0027ll make some good progress on this today thank you thank you so much so here is our note well it\u0027s the end of the week everyone should be familiar with it even though it\u0027s a new form if you\u0027re not please take a look at the link on the bottom and read about it so we are doing audio and video streaming we\u0027re also doing our joint minute taking through etherpad I just sent the link to the list so if you want something easy to click on just click there it\u0027s also it\u0027s also in the jabber room which I will do my best to watch if someone else can enjoy it and jump on jabber that would be good because sometimes I am busy focusing on the discussion rather than jabber the the etherpad link I want emphasize is very helpful to make sure that we capture the discussions that go on the presentations the what we have slides we don\u0027t need to worry about that but the discussions are pretty important to capture particularly in this one we\u0027re expecting a lot of discussion in the second half if you make a comment at the mic just jump on etherpad and make sure that the comment was appropriately captured so that it\u0027s reflected in the minutes route that would be very helpful thank you and of course signed the blue sheet so we get appropriate room size our initial RF session our first session is a bit packed it\u0027s this is definitely an eye chart the point of this is we have a lot to go through and we\u0027ll try to stick to our agenda int by the way we will have to remote presentations our second session is a little different we are going to have a real working meeting and we\u0027re going to try to confirm some of the discussions that have happened in interims in that since the last meeting we have had three of them and also highlight issues that are still open and we would really like to try to close on what we think the the direction is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "the working group and as always we don\u0027t do final confirmation of decisions in here we do it on the list so the discussion follows on to three in terms that took place it will we will have hopefully a good discussion make some progress hear the results of that progress will be captured in a document and then that document will have an opportunity for everyone to review and comment on list so that\u0027ll be the focus of the second session the we\u0027re going to adjust the timing a little bit partially to allow for a for Stuart Bryant to talk a little bit about his enhanced VPN framework which we expect to show up at ease but is actually answers one of the questions we have on our slides is how do we that we need it we need some text covering our the the VPN behavior we\u0027ve always talked about about carrying TSN no for debt net and that\u0027s going to provide a higher-level framework of it so we want to make sure to give some time we\u0027ll put that at the end as well as if we have time this is this other presentation on control plane which is definitely out of scope of the the working group but it\u0027s good to be thinking about where we\u0027re headed particularly as we\u0027re trying to develop our information model and yank parameters for describing service and describing middle behaviors and Link behaviors as always we really like discussion on the mail list and we have an IPR disclosure process where basically before adoption and before working group last call that we we asked all authors and contributors named in a document to explicitly state whether they know of IPR this is also the time if you\u0027re working in the working group and you know of IPR that and you can look at the definition and then oh well what that means know about they are if you know of it that\u0027s the time to disclose it if you haven\u0027t done so before so where are we in our documents we have three documents that we keep saying we\u0027re good at last call and this time we\u0027re not kidding we really want to last call these three documents we thought we were going to be into last call on two of these the architecture in the use cases but each time we went to do just to really start the last call the author said that we have one more thing to do and in the case of the the architecture document we we\u0027re there now in fact it\u0027s not on the on the agenda for that reason we think it\u0027s done I did talk to Pascal who\u0027s not in the room but is a co-author and he says he thinks everything\u0027s incorporated if it\u0027s not you\u0027ll send it to the list so hopefully we won\u0027t have anything but even if he does we can capture that as a last call comment use cases will here shortly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:04",
    "text": "the problem statement has an asterisk next to it because we talked a few times that it it\u0027s a document we spend time on and be nice to produce it it\u0027s an informational document we spent time on it so it\u0027s good to capture it but if the text is a little too dated now and it causes us a lot of problems we may bring it back to the working group and say do we really want to spend focus our energies there perhaps it\u0027s better to focus somewhere else so we\u0027ll see how that one goes on the agenda we have three of our working group documents that are not yet ready for last call the security document Ethan will give an update on that hopefully he\u0027s online it\u0027s seven hours earlier there and the data plane solution is the focus of our second session but we will have an update in the first session on what\u0027s changed since since the last meeting and the flow information model is on the agenda in terms of our deliverables uh welcome Ethan that\u0027s good bodies there so in terms of our deliverables and milestone we\u0027re actually moving along slower than we had initially hoped but we\u0027re still we\u0027re moving along on three of the four in terms of what we have is adopted working group documents we don\u0027t have any yang documents or yang models as working group documents yet but we do have an individual draft on it that\u0027s on the agenda that we\u0027ll be talking about today and with that I think I\u0027ve gone through the list oh yeah I forgot to mention something we are in a lucky situation that the ITF and I to Plato to face-to-face meetings are back to back in the same hotel in Bangkok and we discuss it in this morning as well that it\u0027s an opportunity for a joint session I mean for the coordination team between ITF and I to play to two and we are thinking of as well potentially having a Saturday afternoon joint session between at night and 802 dot on TSN this would be the first opportunity to two groups could be in the same room and I think it would be good for proposed loops for a collaboration and and many many items are our interest for four groups this is an idea so far we will have further discussions on the wrist and so on so just purification are so Saturday before ITF meeting on Saturday Saturday after because ITF is first then we have the weekend and then the article limiting "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:11",
    "text": "norm fin right now I checked the published schedules and ITF is first it\u0027s the third starts on the 3rd of November and then I Triple E 802 starts the next Monday on the ninth so I I think or Sunday on the night I think it might be that at one time they were the other way around or something because a couple of people have thought they were in the other order but but I checked online this morning and it\u0027s definitely ITF first and I Triple E 802 the second week go ahead right now the I Triple E 802 that one has a joint effort going on with ie CSC 65 which is on industrial a profile for time-sensitive networking for industrial uses if we can get them to come that would be a third group that would be I think it\u0027d be really valuable for them to see what\u0027s going on in debt met because I think that will be relevant to them as they get into larger networks also I\u0027ll be pushing to that right well we did discuss that this morning we would certainly invite them Glenn seem to think that they might not be available for some reason for that but but we should certainly invite them and and whether they show up or not is up to them welcome Ethan we can see you and hopefully we can hear you when you\u0027re ready for me to switch sighs just say slides say next okay yeah you sound great okay so I\u0027m you think grouse go be laboratories and this is the update on the debt net use cases draft and next slide please the current status is that we did put together a use cases draft 14 but it has only very minor changes from the last one the main one being that we moved all of the authors which all used to be on the front page to a contributor section because as you know can\u0027t have them all on the front so that\u0027s what we decided to do fixed a few typos basically the same as it was we consider the draft to be basically stable ready for working group last call there was a couple of things that we decided we would defer till the last call process instead of trying to get him into draft 14 one is that there are some texts related to network slicing that we\u0027ve been working on we\u0027d like to get that in there but it\u0027s it\u0027s just a more clarification it\u0027s good stuff and I sort of wanted to bring up the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:13",
    "text": "topic of whether we should say something in the youth cases draft about ipv4 because we\u0027ve got a lot of conversation about it generally speaking in the UK draft we don\u0027t attempt to suggest any kind of technology or solution but on the other hand there was this sort of moment when we realized that for a lot of the use cases it it was important to have at least a solution for ipv4 even if it wasn\u0027t the complete more complete solution you could get with with ipv6 for example I don\u0027t know that I want to actually have that discussion now because this is a very short update but I just wanted to put it out there that that\u0027s another thing that we maybe should consider on the list or if somebody already knows the answer then it can just be done with that so I put on it so that\u0027s the end of the update we\u0027re ready for last call and and that\u0027s it so I did put in a couple more slides if anybody is interested in reviewing stuff about the use case just briefly one of the things was the notion of the use case common cleans in the only reason I mention it because we\u0027ve gone over it enough times is because it does get referred back to in the security draft update which I\u0027m going to go over next so Lou maybe just let\u0027s just page through the slides and all spend fifteen seconds on each of them and then we\u0027ll just move right along the next slides are part of this presentation on security this draft or on security it\u0027s there in this one okay okay so just I mean the goals we provide the industry context for debt net a yardstick for functionality of any proposed design and we highlight the commonalities between the use cases so that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of what I\u0027m getting at about these common themes and so next slide please okay so we\u0027re gonna go so future plans even though we\u0027re gonna have last call we\u0027re still going to use the use cases draft as a yardstick to consider the value of the proposed solutions next slide please before we go there Ethan I that\u0027s Lou I have a question you mentioned earlier that your plan was to go to last call and then to add text that\u0027s not typically we don\u0027t do that typically if you have text that you think needs to be added we would add it now before a last call oh I miss have must have misunderstood then because I thought we had had the conversation and that there was going to be when we do last call there was going to be one more oh sorry I must have just misunderstood if you have the text ready to go I think it would be much more efficient for the working group if you do an update and then we issued last "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:13",
    "text": "call and everyone has an opportunity to review that new text does that is that work for you how long do you think you need for to get the next Rev out with that text that you have in mind on the order of a week the text is basically prepared it just needs a little bit of editing honestly yeah I think it would be much better to hold off last call until that\u0027s ready and then because if as soon as we do last call we\u0027re asking a lot of people to look at the document and if you then add new text that it means they have to look at it again and it\u0027s less likely to get as good review then okay that\u0027s my fault I just misunderstood no problem I thought somehow I got a different a week is easy so that\u0027s fine so we\u0027ll look for the next version and then and then last call it okay it sure brought is the community\u0027s name please Stuart Bryant I said oh I didn\u0027t hear orrible is the confusion that actually quite often another Rev is spam as a result of the last call comments so there will be probably be several more revisions afterwards it\u0027s just that we should start with the cleanest ten yeah I think I heard what Stuart\u0027s saying it\u0027s a good point it\u0027s not that the last call comment the last call version is the final one we may have updates based on last call comments but if the author\u0027s know that there\u0027s texts that have to go in we shouldn\u0027t start last call to that text is there either does that make sense yeah I guess I was thinking more along the lines that it was a minor enough provision I thought we had discussed it but I just must have misunderstood it\u0027s alright it\u0027s not an issue I can get the text in there in a week or so great ocean thank you do you have an opinion on the ipv4 thing is that just a non-starter can we just say we\u0027re not going to mention to you aren\u0027t ipv4 is I think ipv4 is in our Charter so you know the fact that we have to deliver an ipv4 solution isn\u0027t surprising but if you think there\u0027s a place to mention it that that\u0027s not unreasonable it\u0027s in our Charter so mentioning is fine okay okay I\u0027ll just put some kind of brief mentioning yeah certainly the it\u0027s a good issue to highlight to those in the room so that when they\u0027re reading the document they keep in mind ipv4 and ipv6 and make sure that the text is adequate to cover the those cases as well as your own use case all right we can proceed okay so I was just going to there are two of these slides on that show the common themes and I was just gonna show him again because when I talk about the security draft I refer back to these so I just thought instead of having to go back from there we go forward from here so the point is that these are like the least common denominators of all of the different use cases because the use cases are many and they\u0027re complicated we decided that it was good to identify "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:13",
    "text": "the common elements of them so we refer to these as the use case common themes and they have things like it has to be scalable in size it has to have high availability it has to be secure the flows have to be deterministic I use this deterministic flow is isolated from each other that one I\u0027m going to mention that specific common theme I\u0027m going to mention in the security update so that\u0027s the only reason I\u0027m pointing it out okay that\u0027s it for that we can move on to security okay this is the update on the security considerations draft next slide please so the current status is that it\u0027s still at draft one which is unchanged since the last IETF the draft is considered currently to adequately cover the general topic of security for debt net that is to say it doesn\u0027t yet include the security considerations that are specific to whatever data playing protocols we choose to use so that comprises what we have to do next is to add the security considerations that are specific to the data playing protocols once those decisions are made note that the scope of the debt net security draft is limited to security considerations that are specific to debt net ie time sensitive things that we we\u0027re not trying to cover anything that\u0027s covered anywhere else we\u0027re just trying to focus on these specific things so that\u0027s the update I thought since again since it was a short enough update I did prepare two very brief slides just talking a little bit about the draft and what\u0027s the structure of it and part of it that maybe is new and and I might be worth a word so let me just spend a minute going over those next slide please so the overview of the draft abundant one minute I cover security threats for example delay spoofing and so on the impact of those threats you know is that a financial impact health and safety impact mitigations in other words what do you do about those threats and the association of attacks to use case common themes so in that this way we\u0027re trying to narrow down the problems of securing a debt net based on knowledge or the specific application or use case it\u0027s hard because there\u0027s so many use cases so instead of by use case we organize it by use case common theme as I was just discussing so if that particular theme is important to use your use case and you\u0027re involved in security for dead men you should pay attention to that section if you do the last slide this is an example of that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "for example the deterministic flows one that we just discussed this for example the third paragraph here says a flow modification or spoofing or header modification or control packet modification act attack could cause packets from one flow to be directed to another flow thus breaching isolation between the flows so this is this is bringing together the properties of a debt net with what the effect of a successful attack could could could do to that particular property interesting way of sorting that stuff okay I\u0027m done that\u0027s it Thank You Ethan and thank you for being up at what 3 o\u0027clock in the morning or staying up until game time yeah wish I could be there well thank you very much for participating nonetheless I like the background with the mics there are eight I think the last night hello my name is Balaji Olga this will be a short update on the ethnic flown information model this draft became as a very I will do it in that way okay thank you so this draft was adopted by the very group recently at the last after the last meeting and what we have discussed there is that this draft will contain not only the flow information model but also service information other specific aspects and practically this is that we have updated in the draft so this is about a VSO very shortly in the slides regarding the service information model we have identified only the basics many things will depend on law also on the result of the data plan discussion so but we have put in the draft in a conversion is ingress related information element egress related information element that not domain and service day to a specific information element and we have was a distinguished two type of service over the dotnet domain one is a layer 2 or TSM connectivity service but flow contain Ethernet frames and this is what we are transporting over the data domain the other service type is IP service type where the floor contains IP packets and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "these IP packets are transported over to service the basics of service attributes were also listed it is the bandwidth parameters delay parameters loss parameters I think nothing surprising the connectivity type which is selected what type of service connectivity is provided a layer 2 or a layer 3 connectivity in order delivery and the service rank we have added also based on the architecture draft some reference points this is there in the text in order to have some better further discussion so they might be removed if we don\u0027t need these reference points for the service definition but I think some of them will be definitely needed so what we have added is just what we have in their architecture draft the application flow endpoint the Uni interface and the neural interface regarding the service scenarios we have not added yet the interim results the two service scenarios the internal service and the darkness service this is what is referred in the current version of the document and practically that\u0027s it the plan for the future is to incorporate the conclusion from the data plan discussion because that will impart the attributes and of course contributions are welcome thank you I told us Eckhart is there no support for the model where the end device itself also performs dead net so for example I\u0027m aware of a lot of the video application devices that are you know performing something like what we call press meaning receiving both streams aren\u0027t able to merge these and so I think that the use cases are maybe not explicitly mentioning these details but obviously these video services and so I\u0027m wondering how that would be captured in that architecture I really that is important scenario but let\u0027s wait for the discussion and that not data playing stuff but the general question of whether or not host is described in the information flow models it is it there they are yes so so to take a look at the hosts description I use the mic please we definitely have people who remote the Uni looked is is exactly not saying that the the user interface is dead net that the user that the host is dead not capable right so it\u0027s kind of just consuming the edge representation of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:15",
    "text": "dead net service which is not the same as as the full data just specifically I think a breath yeah I think that\u0027d be definitely an important piece to cover and if you have some specific suggestions on changes the document remember it\u0027s a working group document please ask for change and even better suggest test that excuse me text for the document and maybe I think you need also new reference points for for that discussion so let\u0027s discuss it for them in the the model should be independent of a necessarily first step that we take so later on we\u0027re going to talk about some first steps where we make some compromises but the the model should support even without those compromises the target is in order to have it\u0027s practically service provider independent and and co very generally yeah that is the target thank you [Music] [Music] [Music] but stay in the pink box okay I\u0027m sure so and I will introduce our work about done that configuration remodel this is the first time of this part work presentation so we will go to kind of detail and some and first I want to introduce the dinette models and their relationship we can see from the picture the user will send the flow data model and service data model to the controller and at the same time the network will collect the topology data model and send it to the controller and the controller based on the these data models will do path computation and comes out to the configuration in her model send it to network and the network is configured and then M flows are being transmitted through the network and the network awoke collects the status data model and send it to the controller and a controller will send it to the user and the user depend on the current network status maybe change the flow and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:15",
    "text": "service data model we can say this picture shows the circle often that control and manage and the blue box shows the flow and service data model is covered by a current draft which is just introduced but then I\u0027ll flow information model and our work then and a configuration model covers the red box including three parts topology data model configuration data model and the state has data model the first I will introduce the then that topology data model the net topology data model is used for than that features and resources discovery in the network and we do some analysis about the current working a ATF and the know we have network topology data model and now we have te data model and in the t\u0027s working group we have te topology data model and then that data mode does not polish it in the model is the augmentation to the current te topology data model and including two parts know the attribute augmentation and the link annotation and let\u0027s do some a detailed introduction these are the attributes are included in our work and which is necessary for DES net but not in the current D each of Holliday data model versus in no time in the architecture drafted there are three no types internet as node relay node and the transient node and that way well specifies the elimination and the replication capability of the node and we also include the queueing management algorithm the type and their corresponding basic parameters actually as we all know there are some queuing algorithm defining in actual ETS or tasking group such as time of are shaping credit based shaping and secured a lot of the of them it\u0027s not in the scope of the current than that but perhaps it is an interesting issue to consider that whether them that should have their dedicated queueing management algorithm or we should do some should have some new queue management of rhythm and question later okay so I will continue and different queue management algorithm has corresponding basic parameters and we also have a resource reservation base which is also has been defined in the maximum thing imports maximum packet "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:17",
    "text": "size and maximum data there\u0027s not a classes let me a little explain about what is standard class especially we should have a tetanus traffic class to distinguish 10m flows from mountain air flows and the question is whether we should have more than one traffic class for ten that to distinguish different data flows that means the 10m flows have different priority and the different process in the device and we also define the bandwidth and the delay metric for test not in the delay metric we just do the delay classification in the into three parts link delay processing delay and output queuing delay link delay has already been covered by the counter work and packet processing delay describe delay from the packet from the packet goes into the device and arrives the output queue and the queuing delay is the from the output queue and outside device so we think this this classification is not the only solution and there may be other opinion it\u0027s open to discussion but we think it\u0027s a general classification for this period yes I blog mirskiy is et yes my question is on a link delay and usefulness of this metric because I remember correctly this RFC\u0027s specifically exclude queuing delays and actually that\u0027s what we are interested because queuing delays introduced jitter to the packet the rest is just physics so because of that link delay is not characteristic if we can calculate link delay based on a distance so what we need is residence time and the residence time is not interphase residence time is measured by ingress egress of interfaces how we traverse the node so it\u0027s an ordered pair and order it characteristic because it\u0027s directional so ingress to egress that\u0027s more useful and helpful information and we have this already included in SFC document and preparing some document and more general use of residence time in calculating T Greg there\u0027s mothers may be multiple ways to to measure you\u0027re actually making a comment on the information flow document not on the egg model you know it\u0027s a Yank more though as well because they salute Lee but it\u0027s derivative of the information model so the the base concept you\u0027re saying that here is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:17",
    "text": "represented wrong please please go please go look at please go look at the the previous document that was presented and see if you think it\u0027s right there and if it\u0027s not suggests a correction okay list yes I just want to clarify I\u0027m not saying it\u0027s wrong I\u0027m questioning whether it\u0027s usable well we if there\u0027s something more useful again it belongs first in that other document then it\u0027ll flow down to this one and sorry I think it\u0027s very important to mention that I think the magic of tenets is it\u0027s not the delays not from measurement it\u0027s from the calculation by the particular queueing management algorithm it used so it\u0027s not matter so it can we calculated so the delay is deterministic that\u0027s the point and that is different from other other mechanisms other working group work norm fin we\u0027ve got a new draft and I encourage it to participate perhaps in the new draft on founded latency where where we\u0027ll get into the network calculus and what how do you compute and there did there are different ways to do it and we\u0027ll pick one that works I would just like to comment on the more more than one that net class of service a great many applications will not need that but if a for example I may have a factory floor that may have different kinds of flows that have different need to make different trade-offs so it\u0027s easy to imagine leap Li\u0027s don\u0027t exclude having more than one net net class okay sure to your question on the left hand side like a lot of work is going on in 802 the 20s sense providing the yank for for all these queuing mechanisms so it and and as well the the delays like in hope and so on it\u0027s good to have aligned the tool and and leverage as much as possible response to comments actually we are open to discussion there is already some work in actually and this is a cooperation between two organizations so it\u0027s very necessary to sit in the same room the the topic okay thank you tell us what what is the benefit of you know having I mean not happen so Tim to me what would be a lot more logical like we do in many other working groups to have something like the yang model be normative for the information model if it\u0027s whether you want to one translation seems like rather wise just getting ourselves into the additional problem of you know creating yet another round of box mapping information model to the young model right so just curious I didn\u0027t hear the question I think you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:17",
    "text": "were directing that at the chairs but I\u0027m not a hundred percent sure can you Greg can you repeat the question because I know I\u0027ll rephrase and then you can kill me too so the question is that there interpret so there is a mechanical way of derive yank model from information model so what\u0027s guarantees that this yank model will be identical to one that could be derived directly from informational model actually we should go back to the first picture it\u0027s not the same data model covered in by these two traps we can see the flow data model and a service data model from the user to the controller that is covered by the information model and what we cares the tenets configuring a model covers different parts just like the salt bond and the what guarantee is there what guarantees that there is no overlap between yank model derived from information model and these models I think it\u0027s a good suggestion perhaps we should consider the interface between these two models it is a good suggestion thank you I\u0027m just I\u0027m just talking about getting the you know human translation from the information model into the data model out of the picture to reduce the places where we can create bugs so what is your proposal well I\u0027m not sure if it would work very correctly right in terms of if there are so many abstract things in the information model that we haven\u0027t captured in yang then we have a problem right but if everything that we have in the information model is meant to be captured in yang why the heck is that not the equivalent then rights right well and that\u0027s the normative part and we only have one place we can make bugs I\u0027m not so I have coming to here so actually the commodity model is not part it\u0027s not a fan car in a mission model it\u0027s it\u0027s just too you know dependence model to collect to discover information about yeah capability of didn\u0027t work it\u0027s not about keeping him northern I didn\u0027t mean to say that there needs to be an information model for for every data model that we have but if we have obviously data model for every information model then I question you know what\u0027s the added value of the information model other than in creating buzz so again I hope that I\u0027m not contradicting tutorials because organizations usually do one thing either information model or data model because from information model its mechanical operation to derive data model making two parts of the same issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:17",
    "text": "problem because basically we are talking about part that covers lifecycle orchestration okay with their service model using two different ways of looking different players because one layer is information model another layer a little bit it\u0027s like a server to it it\u0027s a data model the problem is how we guarantee consistency of these two views well do we need to guarantee consistency is another question think so yeah so the intent has been or the discussion has been that we have the information model that helps us understand what needs to go in to the yang model and the yang model is the thing that actually drives the implementations so the information model is more about our the process that goes in here well the data model is more about what happens with implementation and I see that\u0027s a controversial statement I\u0027m really good at holding yes something up that at least that\u0027s how I viewed how we were lining up but organizations use information model to produce data models well that\u0027s our III amusing that\u0027s true and when they when they formally define the information model using tools such as UML we\u0027re not doing that we\u0027re in in we\u0027re documenting it in text form which means that the only way to translate from the narrative to the actual data model is a human process and that\u0027s the way we\u0027ve been doing it whether that\u0027s right or wrong we can certainly debate no no that is I think that there is I believe there is no right and wrong I just might suggest that maybe we\u0027ll need to rename it from information model to information flow or something else because information model exactly associated at least in my mind and I think that in mind of others couple others here with UML and being able to produce data model as derivative right so it\u0027s certainly in the ITT context information models are done in UML there have been other information models done in the ITF which are narrative and form and this one is aligned with what we\u0027ve done in the ITF before it\u0027s not aligned with what has been done with information models in ITT but you\u0027re absolutely right there\u0027s different approaches when we give some chance to some others to talk this is an extremely just one thing to add to this and there\u0027s an RFC 34:44 which which explains exactly basically the difference of the relationship between the information model and the data model I think basically the trunk of this we could clear up this really clear clear up some of the confusion but I think we\u0027re having here just one more addition barrage rather the information "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:20",
    "text": "model is about the flow and the yang model is for configuration for all the details so from the fall flow you will select but to configure in the normals and it is not at all mentioned in the flow information model or the configuration related details this is why we have separated the to document microphone yeah we should be we should be careful about what flow means because we can look at it as just a the specific series of packets or we can look at it in the broader context of of how our charter reads it where it talks about information needed for flow establishment and control and that\u0027s a little broader than just looking at a particular flow because it\u0027s all the information needed for flow establishment I control right again it might be just a certain perception that when we somebody mentions we are developing information model I automatically think that that could be a derivative that could be a source to produce a and model and it\u0027s not only ITT that uses this approach worth creating information models some other SDOs produce information model and then out of there mechanically derive game data models yes sorry for bringing this up and just you know the original goal was really trying to ask is there something we can do to simplify our life right so not to have more discussions that are not ending right so just if there are pieces you know that we know are going to be met one to one right is there any way to avoid that we have to always continue to check consistency because that\u0027s where it came from right you said oh don\u0027t talk about these parameters in the yang model go back to the information model then update that draft and then basically you can come back to the yang model and get that draft updated right so I mean that that was basically is their way for simplifying our life saying you know this is basically the yang expression of parts of the information model or something to avoid the duplication that\u0027s all yeah you always have to have a narrative form and then the the actual model or module description and one is more about syntax one is more about concepts we\u0027ve split it in the past that the most the concepts are coming in in the information model and the syntax is in the yang model yeah but so we have also enough examples where we\u0027re really just you know having the yang model where kind of the logic is kind of the informational part in the beginning and then all the details of parameters also aren\u0027t duplicated right they\u0027re just in the yang model part of the document so often often you\u0027ll see "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:20",
    "text": "it a reference in that case in the yang model where you have a normative reference to where that parameter is described and the problem is is that being new we don\u0027t have somewhere else to reference so either it has to be in the same document or it has to be in a new document and we then take the approach we\u0027ve been taking is to have them separate we could certainly combine the documents if that makes sense but then that becomes a new massive document again as I said right I mean if it\u0027s not you know really saving us work at this point in time right forget about it I was just thinking that you know looking at these consistency issues trying to you know be as efficient in what we\u0027re defining you know with the least amount of work yeah I mean I I guess sure thank you actually we have in that document if we use the the same information from the information model we will do the reference so keep keep them try to keep them yeah but it\u0027s I think it\u0027s actually a good point because right now we have information split over two places having it split in two places is it good and I think even hopefully everyone will agree that we really want to capture the narratives in one place and then have the syntax definition and in one place as well right now it\u0027s a little bit spread which is definitely not a good situation so I will go to the next night and after the introduction of the tenant apology attribute and to the debate of the models we will go to some introduction to the 10m flow configuration data model and there are some different No types which has already been mentioned in the telnet architecture dropped and the different node types play different role internet network including ingress node replication no transcendence elimination node and egress node these different roles also can be mapped to the people below and all these different different roles can be characterized to threaten net architecture layers the first one is service their service layer prophecy which is consisted of each node and its main function is encapsulation and decapsulation and the second layer is service layer which is consisted of rellenos and its main function is packet replication and elimination for service protection and the third layer is the transport layer which is consisted of transient notes and it will do congestion protection and the configuration we defined will depend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:20",
    "text": "on the different rows and its function so here we are there is the low lowest layer of the architecture transient node configuration and we will include some parameters including flow priority flow identification key management algorithm configuration and explicit wrote which is needed to be considered and it is also mentioned by doing in the Middle East is there is a very interesting draft in another working group it is about the queues young model and we have do some analysis the cucm model is consistent for Bayesian models classifier policy action and the target and it also defines IETF tips or young model based on these four base Llamados and this part work may be can also be used in our transcended configuration young model because we can do augmentation to this llamado and and and that that\u0027s not features into it this may be the next step work of this document and we also here are some attributes about the relay node configuration the relay node has main two functions replication and elimination first we will do flow identification and the specifies whether the flow will do a replication or elimination if it does replication which specifies the copy numbers all the redundant numbers and after do the replication and elimination we should we should end the information of flow and notification to guide the packet to the next relay or edge node here is an example any question yes so you use term no yes have you considered that this elimination function could be a part of their edge node yes actually we can see more clear in this picture we can see there is some overlap off different which means the edge node can also do replication right so yeah might be better not refer to as a node uh-huh what function yes perhaps the name should be considered yeah I think it\u0027s supposed suggestion thank you sorry to do this again you\u0027re making a comment on the architecture document she\u0027s just she\u0027s just presenting what is in the architecture document so the architecture document is about to be lost called if you don\u0027t like anything something it\u0027s in there they\u0027ll be please don\u0027t wait for the last call you know read it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:20",
    "text": "and send comments the list not thank you and we will continue here is an example in the umpires data plan solution we will use the as label as the identification so in this really note the flaw added acacia is the incoming Ashley and the way well specifies whether the packet will be replicated or eliminated or both and we also have to specifies the outgoing as label which guides the package to the next relay on each node and we also have to specify the output pot which guide the package to different explained wrote and if we have already done this kind of configuration what will happens in the data plan we can see in this picture the first package encapsulation the lowest is the payload and we have the tenant control world and the 100y is the as label and the t label is for transmit and the ingress the encapsulation is like this and in the relay note that we can see that the s label is switched it has been switched to 201 and which and do the packet replication and the kinda packet to the next the relay node and the label is switched again to 301 and the packet is a will cost go to the egress and then we will do some configuration in the edge node in the ingress node configuration it should include flow identification praxic sequencing technique capsulation travis specification and perhaps also flow aggregation because the flow aggregation solution has not been clearly defined in the data plan so it is open to discussion and in the eQuest node configuration will include flow identification pack hillary ordering and the packet decapsulation what is the next actually because there the data plan solution is being discussed and perhaps there will be some conclusion today in the afternoon and so and also we are we should consider the cooperation with the I Triple E data model definition so this will remain just the beginning of the work we will have more considerations about queuing algorithm configurations and will improve the replication and the elimination part and also end the 10\u0027s status data model and also ask for more contributions and the comments okay that\u0027s all thank you thank you very much any other comments so as we know we do have a chartered item to work on any models it sounds like we have a little "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:22",
    "text": "bit of a some follow up that needs to be done to make sure that the document is appropriately aligned with with the other documents one one suggestion I have there is is that if you find that you\u0027re just repeating text that\u0027s in another document don\u0027t repeat it just point to the other document yes and if you find that that you need to repeat it because you think the other document is missing something perhaps proposed to some text to go into that other document and so we don\u0027t end up having to look in three places versus just two and then we can as a working group decide whether we want those two places to be in one document or in two documents and personally this is my as a personal perspective as working group chair is I hope you do it quickly because I\u0027d like to see us have something that we could pull the working group on before the next meeting I\u0027d like to not wait to the next meeting to do an adoption if we can get there actually we plan to update the this draft very soon yeah yeah I think the the the narrative parts are going to be a part that is going to be a is a bit of a sticking point right now okay okay thank you the descriptive parts of just so we have an idea of the room how many people have read the document it\u0027s an okay number we could definitely use some more how many think that after the update that\u0027s been discussed that it would be ready to pull for working group adoption and keep in mind an adoption isn\u0027t the final place it\u0027s the starting point so about the same number so it sounds like it\u0027s a good plan and we look forward to seeing the update and and others please feel free to to review it and send comments to the authors okay thank you thank you very much yoni here you\u0027re up next if you could join the queue welcome your name we see you yeah you\u0027re a little low and you know yeah and we maybe can adjust the in room speaker a little bit we have someone who\u0027s doing AV for us so let\u0027s let\u0027s continue thank you and just say next when you want to go to the next slide quick update on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:23",
    "text": "working cook draft on on the day to play encapsulations and the next slide so we had a bunch of interims and after those interims I made a couple of our updates actually to the last one was uploaded yesterday and the I took in the what we discussed during the interims and what the accurate are in the rims and also the input from some couple of other volunteers who contributed take so basically from a front from the two to zero so this is after the interim three ballast put a bunch of text about the domain specific consideration and the draw lines picture about how in in scoring a different deployment cases for the routing service and preaching service and so on and auntie em so this was really useful it probably should clear things up for quite a few people and then I also added the preliminary text for the a simplified IP service that was the solution that we came up with and I create a after the interim tree so next on then from three to four so this was a minor update at test because we also create that that the native ipv6 based solution that that was drafted into the draft it\u0027s a no-go just because it\u0027s an ipv6 only solution and so on and there was a push for four also covering ipv4 so I took this text and references to ipv6 souls in a way and put some more text preliminary text reducing fat IPV pypy solution also I added a note that that in a document that I pointed out about the previous work that we had in the very first version of the of the working group document on beta plane where we had this is pseudo wire in a pseudo wire Congress tree at the mpls piece and we also had the IPP SM and and there we had the kind of if you want to transport something over IP you should look these another so it had the solutions that we had in mind "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:24",
    "text": "based on the RFC 40:23 and ends 7510 so after the so bit of history so just that the we kind of been there already a long ago where we are heading again so there\u0027s a couple of presentation bringing this up IP solution it was basically in the first cut of the working group draft does remove based on the occupant ation what he had at that time and after this long rule VB came up with in the interim tree we came up with the simplified IP solution so I hope that that today we can make kind of final decisions where to hit and I kind of think that the encapsulation become stable okay next slide the only it\u0027s Lou what the point that the only made I just want to highlight because that\u0027s going to be one of them the important topics that we talked about this afternoon so keep it in mind and come to the second session I know that\u0027s attractive to do other things Friday afternoon but please come join and participate in that discussion okay so this slide just highlight the the TX on contribution from pelage to kind of spell out what is assumed to be visible in a text already but what was kind of hidden and and and these things show up the routing service and also the for the written service for Ted net so and and the one that I have rounded with the red circle on the right left right bottom corner is the simplified IP solution so it assumes that the the end system IP whatever it she stays unmodified and all the didn\u0027\u0027t functions that we have so the queueing and the bounded latency explicit routes and so when they are provided by the M transmitted layer below it has certain limitations that we come later on and for the other solution saw the tunneling and the IPPS N and M PS PS and there\u0027s a good chance that if we are a go continue on this route at the same between the the Etna layer and the end system payload the same actually can be unified "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:27",
    "text": "with a small effort in my opinion ok next slide so I\u0027m just reminding the constants from the interim so we to simplify the IP data plane service the identification because we don\u0027t have anything that we could insert into the application initiate it originated IP packets so we basically settle down with a sixth up or so that the typical file support plus DHCP for the flow identification and and the addition of DHCP allows you actually a kind of distinguishing between different TechNet flaws and also kind of also builds the kind of basis for the aggregation of definite flows and as I said earlier the underlying sub-link sub network is responsible for different functions and the Saudi SEM IP packets mess on to each hop and then map to appropriate the dentate bullying and sub network for the next hop and so on so browse for the solutions it\u0027s simple and doesn\u0027t require me from the application IP the concepts is that we already discussed in the last time and what is this figure tries to explain that we that we kind of lose the intent properties of one of our dear child or discussion points of the elimination and packet replication so that cannot be done in to end without doing that at the upper layers so therefore application layer but that\u0027s out of scope out of us so what actually happens that you still have this this service protection but that is on each network segment so that\u0027s a separate so you don\u0027t have the end-to-end Service protection at the data layer which simplify the IP you can build that on on your higher layers if you want yeah yes okay this there\u0027s a more neat and more more details about this in a later presentation especially the one at the next session ok next slide and what next so I think we\u0027re in a part that we can split the document the simply got IP is going to be as well encapsulation pretty simple the MPLS based so we can do the clear-cut in my opinion what I was hoping for but didn\u0027t really happen is that getting input for the wishes that people want to see in the document so I\u0027m still calling for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:28",
    "text": "contributors to kind of provide text it\u0027s there in the github every cut every anyone can go and mock it if they want so there is still kind of missing things especially on the kind of detailed behavior of certain knowns and the kind of advanced parts of the behavior they are boring so that\u0027s why they haven\u0027t been progressed and then something that that be properly and I hope that we discussed today and make a decision whether the impedance based solution also allow IP PSN or just MPLS PA in Seoul I think we need to have a sort of agreement on this part also yep next light that\u0027s it questions again we\u0027re not going to get into the heavy technical discussion but if you have a question on where we are in the process or in the document now\u0027s a good time with that thank you very much Yanni okay and we\u0027ll move on I believe it\u0027s Stuart so what I was doing with this document was to talk very close and see if it works thank you so what I was at was attempting to do with this document was to take the latest version of the data plane document as it existed and write it as an MPLS specialist might wish to to see it what the the idea was to make it more easily and readily reviewed by MPLS and and PW experts so there\u0027s some there\u0027s some language difference between the description used in the solution document and the language that one would naturally use in an IP MPLS context and indeed the language that the operators of such a network would expect he to say so I wanted to get it aligned this is a possible starting point for an MPLS data "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:30",
    "text": "plane spec what we do is with it is really up to the working group so I think it\u0027s unlikely that in the MPLS case we will have anything other than the overlay model I know of no example where MPLS has got to the to the end system and so I wrote it really as a multi segment Suda wire design would look and the the the picture I show there is exactly it is exactly based on on that what I kept finding trouble was was I wanted to call everything a PA and we don\u0027t call it that so we did will have to have a just a further discussion I think about whose dictionary we use so we have lots of discussions over the over the months have been involved in this about where replication happens and where elimination happens I think the thing that we have to be clear is that replication and elimination essentially happens in the edge nodes and the relay nodes one of the things that\u0027s quite interesting is if this is a pure in that net system then there there are no there are there are service labels visible at every node and the transport labels are all are always missing I don\u0027t know whether that will lead to a scaling issue because it certainly led to scaling issues when people tried to map pseudo wires directly to LSPs and so the scope of the S flavour is always the receiving decnet node I think that\u0027s where I thought we got to with the with the yang model but I in turn the earlier descriptions that wasn\u0027t obvious to me label is always swapped to the debt that node because it\u0027s always the receiving nodes view of the label that you need to use so one of the issues that I came up with was how do we handle suit serve sequence numbers so is it a fixed 28 bit value can we live in an overlay model with only 28 or 0 and if it\u0027s going to be anything other than 28 is this a parameter of the wire at setup time or is it a parameter that\u0027s carried within the within the the packet in the philosophy of MPLS it would be a parameter of what I\u0027ve been calling the wire it will be a parameter of the set up thing so you do everything in signaling I have an extremely lightweight data plane is the MPLS philosophy the OEM can we assume that we\u0027re only going to use VCC V type 1 or something very similar that is to say can we assume that we always use the ACH model or do we need to support the gal "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:30",
    "text": "model in the dead net layer there\u0027s a decision that we\u0027re gonna have to have to take flow aggregation so I put two models of flow aggregation in there because again it\u0027s not clear to me whether we want to aggregate so that a new S label and control light well so a new control label so a new control word is available each time we do an aggregation if we don\u0027t do make the control word available ie we split the stack and have two s bits we don\u0027t do that then we can\u0027t do press on a an aggregated segment and I think that\u0027s something that we need to think particularly carefully about when we go to wide area versions of this as opposed to low period versions p-waves right so in pwe 3 we just powers we just used to who wrap everything and send it across in dead net we\u0027re going to have to have some sort of ACL thing and we\u0027re gonna have to support as I understand it three types of packet ethernet/ip for an ipv6 and it may not be commonly the common knowledge here that MPLS never uses the IP version to figure out what is what type follows so we have to have three types and are we going to set up a different flow group as it were for each of the types Greg yes Greg Mirsky I would probably restate this that MPLS never used it MPLS relied on the first label that is correct it never did never figures out what well right it does sort of figure it out because it does how am recognition on the first nibble right because basically because in MPLS LSP IP was that one of native payloads then it was assumed that after we have a label element with as bit set the first limo will tell us what the payload type is but that\u0027s not the way MPLS works MPLS may do it an OEM discrimination based on that we\u0027ll use the pseudo why I think one does but no piece of no no LSP relies just on the nibble it rely you get the packet on a different ether type for example well if you have there was either that so if you have Ethernet MPLS over Ethernet so you have MPLS encapsulation yes yes if you have pseudo wire you use control world right if you have gal label than you know that you have om but if the player itself other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:31",
    "text": "than OEM we have one different LSP for each payload type so I think you actually this is Lu year I think you\u0027re actually you\u0027re actually both correct to some degree you rely on a combination of the control plane and typically you rely on the control plane in there is a case where the control plane says this is IP in which you go look at the first nibble get to figure out the versions I think I think you\u0027re both actually and they\u0027re the reason why for example in control world the first nibble is zero and in MPLS encapsulation of beer the first nibble is 5 the first thing so you\u0027re doing st so you can differentiate it\u0027s from IP so version 5 is a protocol that was defined by the idea if I happen to chair that writing but yes I know I know it\u0027s a trivia question no no that\u0027s that\u0027s correct because it needs to be different from 0 1 4 \u0026 6 are the labels that already been used 5 had been used to what yeah all right so that\u0027s something to take up with Ayana that\u0027s interesting any all just learned of IETF trivia there but I think the point is that we need to align with the way that MPLS does this an MPLS sets of a separate vector before as he does for v6 I don\u0027t think it says I don\u0027t that that\u0027s the way it\u0027s commonly implemented I don\u0027t think it is actually stated that that\u0027s a requirement ok I\u0027d have to go looking and I don\u0027t remember LDP well enough anyway so the question we go ok I\u0027m sorry from the standpoint of FAQ yes it will be different fact ipv4 ipv6 will be different facts doesn\u0027t mean it\u0027s a different label right but the label could be the same yes we can you need discussion so there\u0027s a question of what how we set up the the path can we use the the PW signaling protocols that we\u0027ve already got in place for exchanging the labels between DECT their peers and one of the things that wasn\u0027t clear to me is how we set up the graph because it\u0027s a graph we need to set up and not a tree or a unicast path and not we don\u0027t normally set up grass in in the routing world so I think there\u0027s some more work thought needed there comment on that actually there is an ISAs extension yes RFC seven eight "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:31",
    "text": "thirteen right we need to see how that applies to to this yes yes sorry but I told me that earlier in the week and I thought about it um so I think there\u0027s a few things we need to do here right we need to verify that detonate that we as a working group consider this is an accurate reflection of the design I don\u0027t think it\u0027s quite an accurate reflection yet but we need to make sure that it\u0027s an accurate reflection and then we need to go and get the pseudo wire and MPLS experts to review it because I don\u0027t think there\u0027s been enough review from those knowledge groups on this piece of work and whether we merge this back into the salt solution draft or whether we make it a separate draft or whether we merge this with a draft split from the DP Sol graph of what we do that\u0027s up to the working group but what I wanted to do was to try and make sure that we looked at this from an MPLS in pseudo wire point of view to understand that what we were doing matched well with the learnings we\u0027ve had over the last 20 years thank you all right thank you as we talked about earlier we\u0027re gonna be having a good discussion on data plane in the second session we\u0027ll look to in their wrap-up to figure out next steps certainly as yani already said in his slides he sees there\u0027s good text there I personally see there\u0027s good text there we\u0027ll figure out how to bring them all together into a working group yeah give you guidance from the chairs as to how we move this blue code that we discuss it in the wrap-up section right this afternoon just a question for clarification balázs Varga on your aggregation slides well you have a bingo back where you have added additional control aggregation right yes this slide yeah and here you are stated that preface possible I think that there are limitation on perhaps in that situation because for that aggregate you have just that single control work so it might not be an end-to-end graph in that case anything you need to do I think that\u0027s a good discussion for the plane discussion hopefully we\u0027ll get there we actually are already ten minutes over and we have quite a bit of time work this afternoon hopefully we\u0027ll get to this one at this point one one key week we should take it till later and Andy you\u0027ll see a clock in the corner anything you can do to I will try my best yeah and I\u0027ll do my best to try to get the slides I\u0027m just making sure I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:32",
    "text": "stay in the pink box okay I\u0027m Andy malice my co-authors are Stewart and mock and pelage so this right here is a derivative work from DP Saul it\u0027s also a a a derivative work from Stewart\u0027s draft that we just heard from so we use the same terminology in the same abbreviations and so on it\u0027s basically meant to augment or replace the text that\u0027s currently in sections 5 dot 2.27 and 8.7 of D piece all in its talks about the encapsulation for debt net packets when carried over an ip-based debt net infrastructure and it\u0027s not just an encapsulation for IP over debt Annette all of that certainly one of the multiple use cases so I just wanted to make that clear it\u0027s the capsulation for debt net when carried over IP whether published is a standalone document or reemerged and in 2d piece all is up to the working group to decide exactly the same as it Stuart\u0027s draft before the authors are fine either way I\u0027m gonna actually interrupt for a moment because just as for context for the working group this is documenting something that was presented I think in Prague and and as this in the solution document so you can go back there and at the time the feedback from the working group is we didn\u0027t want to go this direction and at the interims we were struggling with this and this was a discarded option and so it\u0027s good for understanding that this was basically ruled out in Prague Stewart made the point that this this approach was never implemented and we shouldn\u0027t head this way and then we also had discussions we also had discussions wait one sec you\u0027re free to correct me in a second more importantly we had discussions that this did not align well with hosts and that we wouldn\u0027t be able to deliver an end-to-end debt net service with this approach and that is what led us towards the simplified approach and in the interims so I think one of the things would be really good in this presentation is to say why do you think we should bring it back so it\u0027s not that we shouldn\u0027t consider bringing it back it\u0027s just you should articulate why they should have to technical discussion okay if I mischaracterized Stewart I apologize that\u0027s how I read it and I think that\u0027s how others read it and if we mischaracterized I apologize and just have the technical discussion and see whether this is the best of yes and and also just to to to talk about what you just said this is this is actually the result of the third "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:34",
    "text": "interim and I\u0027ll be going to that a bit more in the next slide it\u0027s basically a dis got a result of the discussion in the interims especially the third interim where we decided on the simplified model also there were comments in the third internment perhaps of previous interims that debt net is basically for at least some of the use cases a non-starter if you can\u0027t use it over ipv4 over an ipv4 subnets met to basically allow debt net to be used in the use cases that require an ipv4 subnet don\u0027t forget the host just bring in yes please address host in this to yes I do that on the slide right here perfect thank you okay very good so basically this is based on the simplified model as discussed during the interim the third interim on on the 14th of February basically in this case and systems are not debt net aware so that\u0027s the host there\u0027s no debt net header in the host they typically sent IP packets or non IP application frames over Ethernet over an Ethernet DSN link or even a TSN network to an edge node which is shown as the next node over next to the end system there which then adds the debt net encapsulation so the debt net capsulation is not being done in the host and this is based this is by the way the exact same figure that Stuart had in his document and in his slides I just changed a couple of the labels because it\u0027s not it\u0027s not using an MPLS subnet it\u0027s using an IP subnet other than that this is the exact same figure that Stuart had in his document and it\u0027s based on the figure that you showed low in the third interim okay so so in this diagram edge nodes and relay nodes are the ones that are getting it aware so you can see that we show detonate in system edge no transit node which is not detonate aware a really note in each node which are an event end system which is not aware and the edge notes is very similar as Stuart said to PE routers for pseudo wires or MPLS VPNs okay any questions on this slide okay so what we want to do is we want to take advantage of work that\u0027s already been done in DP saw and so basically the transport getting it over IP you require a couple of things you require a method to identify the TechNet flows and a method to carry the dead net sequence number well both of those are already available in DP saw in the MPLS encapsulation so this is just copied directly from DP saw "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:34",
    "text": "as a reminder for people this is the net MPLS encapsulation that\u0027s currently in deep in DP saw the control word has the sequence number and the S label identifies the flow so the Iping capsulation is very simple for transport over IP the transport labels from the previous slide and replaced by UDP and IP as specified in RFC 7510 for a carry MPLS over UDP the encapsulation is added and removed in the edge notes ok some notes on this encapsulation first of all it works equally well if ipv4 and ipv6 just to show you right there that IP header down the bottom that could be either v4 or v6 everything works just fine either way it works with MPLS based segment routing as Pesa fied in ITF spring segment routing MPLS in that case there the t label that you see in that picture right there is retained in the each segment endpoint the top to you label is popped and mapped to a corresponding UDP IP tunnel so the next steps are to either as the working coupe and the chairs prefer either merchants back into DPS all or to continue as a separate draft and that\u0027s it any questions I don\u0027t have a question I do a terrifying point which is the assertion that this encapsulation string can\u0027t be used in a host from a host point of view the UDP piece down would look like a socket call and the piece above it is just some magic numbers in the in the host payload so I don\u0027t honestly see why we can\u0027t use exactly the same thing from a host as well as from an edge so the discussion was is that we\u0027re inserting between the transport protocol that the IP transport protocol let\u0027s say UDP or even TCP even SCTV @rl but between UDP and TCP and IP and that\u0027s not an easy thing to do in most host acts well because you think the coast has already put UDP on it before we get it hmm no the applicants of the application that makes a socket like a POSIX socket cost yes and then we have to insert our header in the middle of the stack well indeed but I wonder we could persuade the application to insert just some magic bytes in front of its its output and then we\u0027d be done I I think the the feeling was that you know we operate on consensus a little loose was that that wasn\u0027t a reasonable ask and we certain if we did that we certainly would have to coordinate with the transport area because we\u0027re now mucking with basically the transport interface right and and that was viewed as too complex now the approach taken "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:34",
    "text": "here to me sounds like it\u0027s just running taking the MPLS solution and running it over an IP PSN which you know that that\u0027s just I you know MPLS over IP we know how to write how we just need to make sure that we do it consistent with how the whole industry does it now yeah you know sure that\u0027s that sounds reasonable but taking it to the host was where there was a lot of pushback and in particular we wanted to make sure that we didn\u0027t forget about v4 hosts and and some of those hosts are and this is I think something that came out of Giles presentation was this or maybe some side conversations is there\u0027s a lot of devices out there that are embedded devices where it\u0027s really hard to go change the stack and we want to support those two and just to be clear taking it to the host is not a part of this trend Oh indeed yeah so Greg where\u0027s kitty so I understand the idea is similar or might be derivative of unified segment routing yes it\u0027s it\u0027s so much that okay so if when we discuss the host we need to understand and then we\u0027ll need to extend a GP segment routing support to the host to participate in this if we ever take it to the host yeah so basically whatever we don\u0027t know right whatever edge of that net domain is it has to use a GP segment routing protocols extensions and again this is if you want to segment routing at the house because you don\u0027t have to I\u0027m gonna actually yoni was in queue okay and he actually was in queue after Stuart I apologize I missed him so Stuart I think this is in response to you the Oni says it is doable one can view it as tunneling stripping the additional IP header away was the hard part for the host that was his view of the host okay I mean I\u0027m just talking to Jakov just here and he thinks there\u0027s another way visit so yeah I think we need to have two discussion this is not the probably the time to have the discussion but we do need to get into these discussions as part of the design process okay honest yes I heard something here about inserting the setter in the middle and to the best of my knowledge if the host you know generates IP packets then I don\u0027t see a way today allowed by the ITF to not have basically two IP headers writes your IP error from the dead net and then you know the payload packet would have to have its own IP header right you look at role and others that have tried to insert things in the and they fail on the constraints of the ipv6 architecture before you\u0027re not allowed to do before and you\u0027re not allowed to change ipv6 so this is going to be you know two headers unless really we have you know a model where that net goes all the way to the host and then of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:35",
    "text": "course you know the whole state can do whatever it wants and then you would get away with just one IP header I wish it was different and maybe you know we you know we can try to fight the windmill I\u0027d love to but I\u0027m sure who from Alibaba I just noticed you are talking about how to use MPs SRO or IP in completion for dotnet if so I suggest you to order please I I believe this format is almost no difference from the MPs are a YP capsulation right yes that difference is on the neck controllers a layer but this is the original than that MPs encapsulation yep like so I suggest to and a reference to the MPS or IP dropped in this in your document yes that of course there no need to read describe those details which had been describing another drought yes exactly which is why I referred to section 3 of RFC 75 10 which is the description of how to do MPLS over IP okay so we have failed that running get speeding up the discussion we will resume data plane discussion this afternoon thank you okay thank you and we really need to ask you to squeeze time [Music] [Music] got switched off okay so I don\u0027t think we have talked much about multicast forwarding planes and you know it could as well talk about yeah the the existing multicast forwarding planes but you know given how that net is a future architecture that we want to build we wanted to kind of show what we think is the you know the best forward going multicast forwarding plan giving traffic engineering and everything else and were just also in the process bringing into that work the elements that we think are missing for that net so in beer with traffic engineering what you effectively have is that every adjacency every link "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:37",
    "text": "in the topology it has an address which is a bit that you ultimately insert into the header so that you can engineer the path by simply you know having every node in the network looking at the bits that are its own adjacencies and our forwarding and replicating towards them so if you see here there is this red path with the bits two three four and five meant to deliver traffic from P 11 to the receivers P 2 and P 3 and that would effectively result in a beer te header with exactly these bits set being sent from the source which we call the ingress VFR ear router and being forwarded along that path to work and replicated to what these receivers so that\u0027s a really a very simple thing and these bits are per packets or at that level we don\u0027t have any notion of flows so you know the sender is free to choose that on every packet now when we look into what we think is missing for a debt net in the in the forwarding that\u0027s primarily the aspect of pref or however we call it now and so in this example what we\u0027re showing is that we do have two alternative paths right one going through p1 on going through the other part of p3 and p4 all these bits being said and the elimination function itself is something that as we said in the architecture also can happen in the middle of the path so you know these bits being set the elimination function of course for its operation needs to have a context which I you know call the sequence number space here and then the sequence number associated with the packet how we construct the sequence number space is something for us to work out we currently have two fields in the your packet header that are filled with the source and you know a random part which I call this electorate so that would be a good part to define that a sequence numbers based then the sequence number itself obviously so and with the ability of the elimination function to happen midpoint in the network as you know provision for the dead net service and not only on the egress you can also and this is the next slide by the way see that you can sustain arbitrary level of failures depending on how much you know path your provision so this is basically the example where you have two consecutive failures on different paths right but you would still support it because the elimination function helps you to basically overcome this amount of failure yes a great mercy city I just wanted to ask you so you do realize that the proposed format for beer te debt net is incompatible with the beer encapsulation so this is this is exactly the new proposal of the of the beer header which adds the the control word "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:38",
    "text": "sequence number right so that\u0027s exactly what we need so up through right but I think that then you cannot really refer that as a beer because it\u0027s not with 80 629 RFC they defined a beer we look forward to hearing the results of that discussion in the beer from the beer working because then then you have a problem of how you encapsulate it either in that because you cannot use either type that reserved for beer no I think that\u0027s exactly you know whether we want to reuse the existing ether type or quality v2 of that or assign a different ether type so I think that\u0027s good work to figure out but I think it seems to be clear that the control work that we need for prep is a similar element in the headers as we have for other services right they\u0027re not needed for the actual beer forwarding but for the overlay service that we\u0027re running here and that would be the dead net service so that\u0027s basically the resilience the pressure part I think you know given how dead net you know targeted for layer 3 environments would get into topologies that one ready one minute are not that common in the TSN case so I\u0027ll skip the OEM stuff this is basically an example that you can read on your own time given how I\u0027m shot down to basically show the efficiency that we get with the EF in you know typical layer 3 topologies like rings and that\u0027s basically exactly the considerations what we said elimination function is on ingress and then of course the whole you know traffic engineering architecture PCC managing the vent with and providing calculation of the past so that discussion has started in that he\u0027s working group yep also we\u0027re looking into allowing to do the prep in beer itself there\u0027s basically the path engineering resilience discussion because we\u0027ll have to rely on a GPS as opposed to on a PC ECC and yep those are the references thank you and just to make you feel better Norman gets half his time and his is actually within charter scope while yours is the hot so give you more time actually I made a incorrect statement if someone wants to work on beer debt net over beer we could consider that as charter scope it\u0027s just it\u0027s not what we\u0027re going to do initially so I\u0027m it\u0027s not that it\u0027s ABS coca sees me just just a reminder I find it handy when people are in the room we\u0027re what we care about is upper bound on latency not low average latency if we have bounded latency we can compute how many buffers we need to get zero congestion loss any scheme that regards that uses feedback to slow down the source is not an option "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:40",
    "text": "we have fixed band where we have minimum bandwidth required for each flow and mathematically sound assurances can be given on latency and congestion loss we\u0027re not interested in probability so given that most of the debt network we\u0027ve been done has been talking about packet replication and elimination because that\u0027s more a fun topic everybody has an opinion there\u0027s lots of ways to do it but it\u0027s not a trivial problem so that makes it really interesting and it\u0027s very similar to existing uses and MPLS is a familiar technology so everyone has an opinion okay well this isn\u0027t the only thing in debt net founded latency is the most important feature to most of the application if you look at the use cases document what they really care about is bounded latency and we\u0027ve talked almost not at all about this because random unexpected congestion is exactly what prevents mixing critical traffic and other traffic and one network and that\u0027s one of our important goals is to do that in some this in IETF a long time ago a very long time ago in-service was done but in serve quote doesn\u0027t scale and queuing calculations are pretty complicated well the unserved technology technologies do work hardware is a lot cheaper now than it was in 1995 there are also a number of new queuing and transmission selection techniques besides those that were explored in it serve that offer different trade-offs and there are awful lot of trade-offs in this space and I\u0027m anxious to get us talking about them between low latency latency variation implementation collection complexity and the complexity of what you have to do to make a reservation ok there are all different places in those Speight in that four dimensional space for sweet spots for solutions and now if you remember in Singapore we got a presentation from jean-yves Lagoo Dec which was very exciting because he\u0027s one of the people who have pretty much invented Network calculus as we as we know it and we believe that we can do the net necessary network calculus in a way that doesn\u0027t require a PhD to do a thesis for each flow that you set up so we\u0027ve got a new draft in here bounded latency the mate I drafted a bunch of it jean-yves has put in a lot of work to it it has an introduction it has a section on network calculus which will be greatly expanded in the next two or three weeks I believe we have a section on what it takes to compute the necessary buffers we have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:45",
    "text": "section that may be too large on queuing models at some point we need to a map we need to make a salon to make a selection of queuing models or at least going forward anyone who has a queueing model that they want to use for that net needs to be able to map their queueing model to the requirements to the parameters that we\u0027re going to have in this bounded latency document the most important section I believe is section 8 which is how to character Rhys queuing models so that you can compute the latency for a flow so this is very much a work in progress we\u0027re certainly not ready to adopt it by any means yet it\u0027s a start those who have an interest in this are encouraged to participate so I encourage people to join me and jean-yves if you feel you need to write something totally different I certainly can\u0027t stop you it would be more fun if we work together I think thank you so when you compute these qyx there will be the outcome of bounded latency or you will determine the queuing models and then compute the latency on top of it which way will it go it is a somewhat complex problem the expectation is that a given application a given flow has a requirement for end-to-end latency okay and that you have to reserve resources in the network for that latency and that maybe we have a meant to control plane issues at the very least using the yang models that we\u0027re developing right now we will be able to have a central controller make inquiries of the network and be able to construct a yes or no can we meet that latency it will be the central controller will be able to compute the latency that can be achieved for this flow okay whether we go whether we have a protocol that goes in to end along the path to actually reserve the resources or whether that\u0027s done with a controller that\u0027s to be determined does that answer your question okay try again Queen queuing models are bonuses for each name you get closer to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:47",
    "text": "the mic yes thank you for each note you will determine the queueing models because queuing is specific to a note it\u0027s not Network level the expectation is that we have a timing model that includes queuing delay okay so we should we should let the next presenter talk okay if we have and if we have time this is I don\u0027t think we have time this afternoon to get into it but it\u0027s an important discussion that would be great to take to the list it is an important enough discussion that if we want we can even schedule an interim just on this one topic what once we\u0027re settled out on the caps elations norm would that work for you to just give a thumbs up all right normal istening is no idea what I said and he gave a thumbs up so that\u0027s awesome thank you he was listening multitrack brain okay please go hello the unknown from Hawaii we are talking about to the net over there and apologies to backgrounds our mark cast series and we can see in the use case of the net that are some use cases around mark cast and it said the mark has capability I should have be integrated into the to the net another thing is a marketer and broadcast is a a key enabler for the 5 T and we can see quite a few use cases relied on the market share capability for minutes we not to spend too much on better shop as we can see most of the accessing the network and aggregation Network her I filled in the de plata by surgeons since Adagio networker scenario ie for a city that traditionally we can use the PDMP a surveys in the MPS to provide at Peter Pan Pia service here in Turin if not a failure in the genes and the services are wrapped up and into the North Direction some other tests to see which can get around failure that will bring a delay of the series which may override the COS change of the delay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:48",
    "text": "well sister Bachmann propose another solution so we can use another technology here as you can see how when the services are going to sell from the routiers and it\u0027s a replicated into two directions one in that clockwise and another in the context otherwise and then i each node around the union we were processed advisor it was a pea under ten to the Walia now it\u0027s area called The Saboteur LP also theater flu label and center to know the and happy with the livewell to elimination and the applications there so that is a ways has only one copy to the leaves this is another scenario for the interconnection of greens whether good service is located in the not a upon the ingress and then it\u0027s a replicated and eliminated in the index nation knows and then replicated over post darshan of the Union in another in second a linen so as we can see the mark asked her in the terrain it\u0027s a very efficient at most only two copies of package is center of the in this solution it\u0027s also a very comparable with Kitty to know that Annette as you can see it\u0027s almost great us for the net and the pussy unicast and I mean mark asked can use the same Magnussen such as the replication and the elimination it\u0027s only so maybe yeah since then has a inch in siga estimate take a zombie take a pass so this may play a constant on the marksman factories of the surveys especially when they\u0027re 16 number it\u0027s not a very long for the number 616 piece so as this is a preliminary job so we would like to your question more feedback sound workgroup thank you thank you very much we are now at the end of the first session I see people in line and this is great let\u0027s get the comments sent to the mail list I just want to point out that it\u0027s hardly can be called admission because you are not using physically disjoint network and you\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:49",
    "text": "cutting your bandwidth I look forward to the discussion or we look forward to the discussion on the mail list and with that it\u0027s break time we\u0027re gonna come back at 11:50 and then go for about two and a half hours so take take your break and then come on back I think they usually do little sandwiches at this time so go find them and enjoy the break and we\u0027ll see you we\u0027ll see you in 20 minutes well we can we can talk line yeah please continue the discussion on the list let\u0027s go "
  }
]