[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:33",
    "text": "just and you can select the right hello everyone welcome to pce I\u0027m John this is Julian we\u0027re going to get started now it\u0027s 20 plus free so you could take your seats ok so we\u0027ll start with no well as we always do please note well that this is an ICS session by participating in the ITF you agree to abide by those processes anything you say in this meeting is considered an ietf contribution you agree that the meeting may be recorded etc etc you can read it off ok so this week at ITF 9004 are two pte sessions first wanted right now is our usual pc working group meeting the second one is going to be on friday at 9am this is the joint session with jointly with TS I\u0027m mpls and see camp to discuss yang models related to our our general area so if you\u0027re interested in young then please don\u0027t leave town please stick around for friday so please could we have minute takers if you\u0027re if you\u0027re able to take minutes that will be excellent anyone who\u0027s keen on doing that please head over to the etherpad i\u0027m also on the etherpad so what you need to do is find the PCE a gender on the ITF website and click through to the link for etherpad minute takers from from the sort of the main ITF HTML agenda is anyone in the Java room a few people okay guys if you see questions or activity in jabber please be prepared to relate to the mic if you could that would be great thanks we are streaming audio and video please speak only using the mics please state your name before you speak so that the people listening in can hear you if you\u0027re presenting please stay inside the pink box so that the cameras can pick up your lovely faces and yeah we have a pact yeah on we have a pact agenda a few drafts fell off the end so we didn\u0027t have time for everyone\u0027s requests but we did prioritize according to what you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:35",
    "text": "know had had discussion and you were coming in so please consider you know if you\u0027re going to make an agenda request she\u0027ll cause if there\u0027s been some activity on the mailing list prior to that okay so there\u0027s our first slide and the next slide sour agenda so this is pretty full anyone want to bash the agenda nope okay so we\u0027ll proceed the working group status using the mailing list that\u0027s this there\u0027s nothing particularly driving me it\u0027s just the usual mag that I always do please use a mailing list actively to discuss all the drafts that we\u0027re working on it is kind unhelpful if private conversations happen and the new drafts new versions address get published because it\u0027s kind of hard to see the the process by which we reach consensus so please if you have a comment on a draft please remember to copy the mailing list in that common ok so our document statuses we have one urs C\u0026RT 8051 the State Board pc applicability probably shortly after the last IETF meeting we have to internet-drafts in the RSC editors q both are missing a reference to stateful PCE so we have a piece of sense where and the interlayer extensions both ready to go just waiting for staple PC to catch them up with the iesg we have stateful PCE and staples Inc optimizations stateful PCE has been approved its pending a document update the authors of indicator Bell update the document by the first of April I\u0027m assured that\u0027s not an April Fool so we\u0027re hopeful that i will get done in the next week staples inc optimizations has just been updated following my ESG review and i see it\u0027s been submitted and a proof of publication so thanks about deborah and then finally would be iesg bears pce initiated LSPs that\u0027s currently pending a routing Directorate review before we proceed to ITF last call so within the working group there are a bunch of drafts which are at a fairly advanced stage so we\u0027ll go through these one at a time just give a quick update first of all GM POS piece of extensions those past last call is very mature possibly a little overripe and is pending a shepherd\u0027s report so as well ok so as soon as that\u0027s done then that will get pushed to the isg piece of s we promised specifically escape this update on this so we now have a document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:36",
    "text": "shepherd Cyril who is not here I don\u0027t think that um Cyril has stepped in to give a shepherd of that he\u0027s just reviewed the draftees sent some comes to the authors drew nodding his head so you must have seen those so I guess Cyril needs to see a new version about draft and he will prepare his Shepherds report in parallel and then we can forward that to the is she as well so we\u0027ll all be very keen to see that published w.zahn r-wi extensions draft is stuck waiting for the GM pls extensions otherwise it\u0027s ready we already have a shepherd\u0027s report written thanks to Danny le who has been our kind Shepherd for that draft and finally RSC 6006 biz V point-to-multipoint draft affixed to that RFC as past working group last call and I expect to be something that\u0027s bhai yes you very soon to have we got draft authors for the inter area is applicability in the house and if so did they want to give us an update on that No ok so I mean the status were bad was that Bell we passed working group last call I was happening it and I had a review and had a lot to say about it so I think we need to see I\u0027m is mostly editorial stuff but we need to see a new revision of our tract I think before we can take it for ok so not on the agenda this time that we have to i beez related to pc association LSP associations diversity in policy and the yeah the staple pce or say bandwidth draft is also a new ID an RC 6006 business and error buses well it is a new ID but it\u0027s already in the office course anyone got an update on any of those first three drafts fours ok so i guess they\u0027re fairly static and then we have a whole set of kind of middle of life drafts we\u0027re sort of looking to see you know which ones are going to proceed if any of fallen by the wayside so is anyone in here who has any knowledge of the state of let\u0027s pick one at random Jeff apologies for not finishing seventh rollicking Alta Nations this week yoga the earth wealth okay so you know just to remind the authors and I am one of your so I\u0027m reminding myself segment browsing in the OSP set of type have an early allocation from iono and that\u0027s going to expire in August we need to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:37",
    "text": "publish by august or beliefs we code points so let\u0027s let\u0027s let\u0027s get it done okay drupal i prob this is regarding the pc p2mp we will wait for RFC 606 this blue get over and apart from that we have an implementation and we feel it\u0027s let\u0027s table so we can progress that as well after that thank you thanks prefer request be we are discussing with the association group object because they are bunch of documents dependent on that so I think we have to prioritize that document as well okay this is your own regarding Stephanie CJ pillars so we\u0027re going to revive it and then update I think share left wrong idea so see how can provide but will so someone\u0027s going to take the reins from shannon on we need to keep on name but the depends on what you want but she said she\u0027s having de penser some run so I think we\u0027re done with the working with status we move to the press presentations depending please let\u0027s wait for the slide so I think the first one is about diversity yeah yeah ok so this presentation is to give you an update on the changes that we don\u0027t know if we are yes Association diversity so just to remember so the overall goal of this extension is to provide the ability for PCC to tell the pc is at a particular LSPs belonging to a particular disjoint group we\u0027re a little LS particular group could be so this is very global ID so we are reusing the base Association who draft and the ID is to use a particular Association type Tara this is a diversity that we want to worship so compared to the previous version so in the first version we used multiple Association types so one for each disjoin s-type what about sodium disjoint i saw SLG join s based on the comments that we received on the list so we moved to a different type of encoding so now we have a single Association type which is past diversity and we are including via diversity flavor in some additional GM so this is the tlv that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:37",
    "text": "are using so it was already detailed in the previous version but we are changed slightly the flags so it\u0027s called vida Jonas information tlv and we are using an encoding which is a line to what has been done for ya as wecker object so we have our flags so for SLG not an integer ness and we are keep using the shortest path bitterness trick nesbitt that were already detailed in the faster in the first version based also on the discussion and I think it was a comment from from Adrian about our weekend couple this with the object function so we give now the ability to add an objective function tlv within the association group so what we are proposing that we can discuss this option we propose to use via of\u0027 least yearly which is already existing but we are we want to limited to just a single entry maybe we can find a more suitable option but reusing via of\u0027 object was not really good so this was the options that we are taking for now and we are adding the earth functions we are reusing the one that have been proposed in via draft from who about our functions for for diversity there was also some data requested also by Adrian I think about what is exact meaning of his shortest path bit so we added the dedicated paragraph hobbies so the global ideas to tell for one or more particular LSP in the group I want absolutely to use what we call the shortest paths with the shortest path is in fact the path that is taking into account all the constraints of LSP except we join us so this means that this particular ISP with the pivot set will be will take into account all the constraint except the disjoint ness and all the other LSPs will be disjoint on this one so this is the global meaning and this is a clearly you need to provide some one path which is very optimal of some customer otherwise if you don\u0027t control the disjoint edge you may have to complete a non optimal path there was also some requests to deal with the case where the pc is not able to find a path or also you can provide a path but it can relax the design s constraint who are it\u0027s also it\u0027s possible for example when we are setting the SB 20 so the designers constraint is not straight "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:37",
    "text": "so the pc is able to relax it so what we are proposing is a 15 the next slide so in case the pc is not able to find the disjoint paths so we are reusing no path vector tlv and we are defining two new bits will be clv so one to indicate that it\u0027s not possible to find a disjoint paths and one which is it cannot compute the path because it doesn\u0027t it does not have the requested algorithm so for example we are requesting an SL g join s and it is completely not able to do it from an advert legal point of view and regarding via constraint relaxing so when the disjoin s cannot be found and the pc is providing a path which is not the joint so we need to inform the PCC that this path is not complete fulfill fully fulfilling sorry the constraints so we are proposing a new relaxed constraint theory which is more generic so it\u0027s not only tied with julius kahn strange may be used in overall use case where the particular constraint is authorized to beer to be relaxed i think we need some discussion on the encouraging obvious so what we are proposing today but clearly require some discussion is a just to put the object that has been a so via objector responding to the constraint that has been relaxed so this is a proposal better I think we need some discussion and visa on cuddling proposal so about the next step so we think that we addressed as a comments that we receive with the Scalia need for some description and enhancement about so as a new proposal so feel free to to give a your feedback and will be a welcome from the document thank you Stefan any feedback command question no everything was clear so in that case I proposed to move to your other presentation yeah so the next one about state synchronization between RPC so the god of document is first to define the procedures for stateful PCE communication between two pc nodes so because a state full communication has been defined from a pc to pc point of view but we don\u0027t have the exact process your follow a pc to pc communication so this is the ball and why doing this one of the driver is to bring more resiliency in the design so in case i "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:40",
    "text": "have some pc to pc session failure i may be able to send some state using this interview see communication so this is one of the primary goal and we over topic in this document is to deal with a path computation optimality and also some computation loop scenario where you are falling into some split brain and you have one pc computing one LSP 1pc computing and over LSP and the two pc and the to LSPs are linked to each other so for example is a path of one LSPs depending of yoga you may fall into computation loop and we are proposing some math of slave behavior between the pc and inkay in this kind of situation so the big work that has been done from the last time is we merged with some exiting proposal this was a proposal for hundra about Olivia real time synchronization so we have something now which is a liner we have a single proposal for all the interp see a stateful communication it\u0027s also include part of year Aly article on PC which will be based also on this on this extension we do we done some slight changes in VR deposit also globally in terms of capability we still have a bit to signal that this is a particular interface instead for communication when the session is set up both pcs will behave as a PC on a PC at the same time so we will have bi-directional synchronization so each PC will synchronize the realistic it\u0027s a nest a synchronous process oh yeah there is no particular order here and the idea is that to identify the original PCC address we are relying now on via speaker identity tlv which has been already defined so we already used tlv tua to carry the original position well sooner or pasetta messages so now how does it work so globally from a LSD state synchronization so when a PCC receives a particular states with a piece of report message whatever the state of the delegation it will forward it to all the pc using the states in session and the important hole is that we do not authorize a pc to follow up this piece apricot message to another pc so this is primarily to prevent message groups and it\u0027s clearly simplify the design so when the pc receives on a pc see it can send "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:42",
    "text": "to a pc but when a pc is receiving from a pc it will not send up to another pc based on this a particular LSP state may be received by multiple sources it may be received directly from the PCC and it may be received also from another pc or even multiple pc we decided at least we propose to only keep track of a single state so we just keep in memory the last state that we are because from a network point of view there is a single state which is the state that has been advertised by the pc so it does not really make sense at least on our point of view to keep track of all the states what is important to track is the sources of the state so we keep one state but we keep track of all the sources where we learn the state farm so this means that in k if i want to remove a particular LSP state i need to have this source list to be empty so i need to receive a removal from all the sources that provide media or this state now the last point on this draft is what we call a delegation so this is a master slave behavior that i introduced in the beginning of a presentation so globally to solve this path computation optimality sometimes i really need to have a single pc computing a set of particular of LSPs that are working together if multiple pcs are trying to compute path for the set of LSP let\u0027s say to see one computes path for LSP one pc to compute the path for LSP tools that are really working together we may fall into computation loop or some perfect mates so in order to service we want to ensure that for this particular group of LSP we want that one pc will perform the computation so what is proposed that when a PCC is delegating an LSP to a PC OPC can decide to sub delegate the computation to another pc so we are just defining in this document with sub delegation procedure but this election of master slave is completely out of scope it could be a manual configuration telling that this particular LSP must be primarily computed by these species that has this IP address it can be done by maybe a protocol extension but this is out of stuff what we are defining the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:43",
    "text": "ears with just master slave behavior well when a PC receives the delegation it can decide to serve delegate it to another pc and when this pc sub delegate v LSP to another one it lose the control on reality so by itself it cannot compute the path anymore it cannot update the LSP anymore it will be the whole of the mass Topsy so how does we have date work so globally we master pc will be responsible of the computation for ver LSP of the set of LSP it is responsible for it will update all the pcs with the difference that forms the pc that perform the sub delegation it will set the delegation flag one and four viewers it will side with the aviation flag to job why are we sending an update towards your PC is just to speed up the sink the state synchronization because if we don\u0027t do this we will need to wait for the PCC to receive your date and then propagate it back to VDC it can work but if we are updating all the pcs from the start it will be faster that\u0027s just the god and after it\u0027s a question of cascading a PCO date so when the slave pc is receiving the pc update it will see in the speaker identity tlv that this is an update for a particular of PCC and it will relay the pc update to the original pieces so this extension is also based for a miracle picea stateful work so if you want to do the article stateful PCE we\u0027ll have to advertise interpreting capability and in addition you will add the article pc kappa dt and this is detailed in the artists estate fula hpc right when we built this architecture we thought about first message groups that we try to avoid best buy this kind of spittle reason mechanism between a pc but we also thought that it may be optionally interesting to record some information when the messages are propagated through multiple apps so we are proposing budgets pure an optional "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:45",
    "text": "behavior that each piece is each piece of speaker may add in a new tlv some precepts picture information so for example its IP address or if we want to I don\u0027t know we got some particular information on yes this is something that we can so just a summary so this is clearly a need for us to have this interpersonal communication to an ends via resiliency or the a path computation optimality ax and so on I think we are now on the good track with this stone that interview see procedure whatever I saw the article flat or whatever so yes it\u0027s clearly more generic now and we would like to request the working group adoption for this document and if you have any feedback good or bad feel free to give us any comments in the room I see someone in stunning taking about you slides up to the time when you\u0027re talking about how we select the single stake but yet maybe you use this way yeah we say we keep a single state the last one level the last one level is necessarily there curing state so why why you are stabilized where it could not be the different propagation we are different parts cooking yes mmm so PC she sends word masterpiece assistance was like a message to the slave somehow goes fast yes but the state or whatever the order of a message the final stage that you will have will be the state of the PCC because the pc are not changing me ok I\u0027ll do you mean inkay up I if you have a happy yes yeah yes one case of clapping yes in case of flapping but if you start fluffy this make it out yes we thought about this and one of the ideas that we add east for the PCC to add a kind of time yeah this was an idea that we have in mind too high to solve this it\u0027s got in the document yet but if you also think that it\u0027s an interest and like yeah point we can edit okay thanks thank you any other comments okay I love improv "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:50",
    "text": "avi since I think that is actually interesting the solutions but here from the my point of view I have some days about about this one because I think that in either of the occasion scenario once this the connection between the pc and the GCC is broken for the pcc in fact little harder is harder to determine you the pce one is the active or usually start you can kind of check more funny because maybe if the study that is not you the broken of the link so i\u0027m not sure because only the pce maybe walk about the impact our the pc and pcc a lot of other links in order some the PDP on net half and some the data needed to synchronization but only the PCE walker I\u0027m not for the effect the effect that is ok for the you know you know all the future so that\u0027s why I\u0027m not sure to understand your point but if for example here the pcs completely failing it\u0027s not an issue if it was a messed up you see this one will take over and it will compute the path oh yeah that\u0027s that yes but but my in fact my comments to you that the in fact that the scenario maybe the maybe more complex than we assumed sensory in the different application scenario and also the pc and a cutie see what is sure is that you will never be able to solve all the kind of failure because you can find some multiple of failure of scenario where you are losing this session this session and maybe this one and in this case yes your computation will not be fine but yeah you can try to enhance by bringing more PC more piece obsession but at a certain point you will never be able to cuddle also fail your case ok I will check acabe car we want middle east of his car shop could we have a show friends to be from people read the document please not so many please read the document here because when we exclude the authors this I want some money so I think doesn\u0027t make much sense to build the room further today but there is some interesting work in there it seems to address missing feature from the pset toolset so please read the document share your feedback using the mailing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:50",
    "text": "list and think use the van problem representation next presenter is a sentire guess what will win the next presenter could I remind anyone asking questions it\u0027s a good idea to go to the eighth apart and make sure that we capture your questionable responds correctly otherwise we may miss some subtle tea thanks it\u0027s I tinea yeah this one talks about the pic ability for a pc to request the control of an LSP from the TCC we go a few use cases and then the proposal on the table so I just kept the slide we talked about the use case in the next slide so most more operators are moving towards the centralized 30stm control and also looking for new enhancement and one such enhancement or was awesome and one such enhancement is for the PC to take control of an LSP for global optimization we\u0027ve got there\u0027s some scenarios where the pc has a better view of the network in terms of futuristic demands surface demands and this draft talks about the ability for a PCE to take control of a specific LSP optimizer and then maybe written it back to the PCC if needed so it\u0027s it\u0027s a very straightforward rap so mostly looking at global optimization of LSP the pc able to control some specific LSPs in the network we\u0027ve got a few other use cases also defined in the trash one such one is the pc load balancing cases where you could have a specific pc requests the subset of LSPs and you know you can they can load balance across multiple pcs to be able to optimize some LSPs in the network and also the failure cases well if I lose of tce the neighboring pc or the standby pc could always request access to optimize the specific error stream network so going back to the proposal the straightforward proposal what we\u0027re proposing is a control LSP control flag set as part of the srp object so it\u0027s gonna be part of the the update message and pc sets the flat 12 indicator in control of the SP and this is identified by the LSP object so it\u0027s a very straightforward laughs so asking for a new control request flag and it\u0027s up to the PC to delegate and not delegate so you\u0027re not change any other mechanisms in the PC stateful track so this is just an add on to it to be able to control but then you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:51",
    "text": "get specific elephants so any questions comes I see someone coming I taking portunity to just do this that it would be good to avoid choosing the bit number you allocate you should leave that to Jana you request for a bit we had this discussion on the list but it is still on the draft on the presentation don\u0027t choose the bit number now all right leave it for later thank you related to that so before we allocate the bits so you started your presentation saying more of operators are deploying this which can you be a little bit more specific YouTube we only have as many flags as we had and I want to make sure that before we start allocating flights we actually solving real problems that operators are seeing versus technology heretical problems if you can if you can maybe add some comments on you jab from statement more operators to Bill to Bill in the case for extra bit yeah all right so at least from where I stand we\u0027ve seen this time and again where we try to optimize something less pieces a network but yeah we could always we can probably flag by some of this on the trap and and maybe we can make for your comments okay so I believe you have a couple of minor items to address to justify a new version use that invasion to try to gather some support on the mailing list and then we can see how we can progress may I just have show friends on people read that document drew a dozen okay among those who read do you believe this is a useful feature almost the same yeah maybe couple less but almost the same okay that\u0027s a useful feedback thank you next presenter is drove i guess i\u0027m doing the head but yeah hi this is truth this is a code point a location I think to ITF ago we presented that and we got the feedback from the mailing list as well as during the meeting so we have incorporated that in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:51",
    "text": "this version so let\u0027s talk about that the main idea here is that we have our piece of registry as we all know the usual allocation policy that we have followed is ITF consensus that all assignments are via RFC\u0027s which are approved by is G of course we have earlier locations which is very useful when we are implementing and we want to get the bits set but as you are seeing recently in the pc working group and otherwise the experimentations that are going on with the use of pc in various cases we also do realize that not having some bits set aside for experimentation can cause problem so we are hoping with this update if we can have some bits for experimentation use for pset messages and objects and theories so that we can start using them the main aim is as as the experimental usage describes is to facilitate environments and main aim is that these values will not collide with any of the other i na locations that may happen in future as well as the current once and especially now if Ben we are seeing peace app also in the open source we want to make sure that when we have features which are not standardized or who are not at the level of I na location the kind of bits that we use belongs to the experimental so that it will not create any confusion so that\u0027s a main aim with this document and when we we saw the problem in the open source that this was happening so we that\u0027s why we are writing this job to solve this as quickly as possible so what were the feedback and what\u0027s the update we were trying to get more feedback and trying to use that what other what are the registries that we want to have for experimental the kind of feedback that we got was focused only on the essential don\u0027t try to do it for everything so that\u0027s what we are doing only three things p sep messages he said objects and a generate p sub tlv those are the three things in which we would like a small experimental range set aside we had an appendix which was talking about what other issues can happen and what do we do with object type notification so we have removed all that detail from the drafts now we were also thinking of whether there is a role of pc working group wiki there so again the feedback was not to do anything like that so we have removed that completely and we have aligned to 36 RFC 36 92 which states that that this range is only for experimentation and the device needs to consent between each other that what is the meaning of those bits and other implementations may use the same numbers for different uses so that\u0027s why there is no need for us to maintain a wiki and that\u0027s the policy that we are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:51",
    "text": "following with this update what\u0027s the update looks like expected for experimental allocation for messages are these four objects around 31 bits for messages eight and forty Elway\u0027s allocation policy that we would like to set is experimental as per 5226 so basically we behave what the feedback that we got from the last time we have incorporated and i hope the working group is happy with that and with that we can hopefully adopt it and move it so that we can avoid any potential issues in this area in future as a part of ongoing effort in owners we have already started using these values for the experimental extensions so that we can avoid issues I think that\u0027s it thank you ready any comments or truth this was one in nine place and rude Organon okay and this is great work very important very needed a we\u0027d probably as in any protocol we want to add expect that behavior because you may have an experimental things added a cup of the light network so you want to describe the behavior what happens if the receiving end do not know how to interpret X an experiment our bits no set to some yeah luckily i think the RFC 5440 handles all those cases quite well like unknown messages in case it\u0027s from the experimental range or unknown TL vs unknown objects so since the range is already from the not allocated not use so if somebody who is not following this experiment even follow RFC pie 440 behavior quickly scan for this I never than drive not mentioned that in the Dahlia I don\u0027t think he\u0027s big mention he\u0027s probably just for yeah it like this no yeah understood no you know just clarification even if she\u0027s already covered you make just hide and sometimes 2.22 that to make sure everyone knows we are reusing existing mechanisms just for gratification so she\u0027s reasonable solid let\u0027s know who\u0027s read the draft okay I guess about eight people have owned up to it and and those people who would like to see this draft adopted in peace EE that\u0027s the same people okay um yeah I think that we badly need this it\u0027s really important so we\u0027re going to take this to the mainland list after the meeting thanks truth "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:58",
    "text": "and europe again yes so this is an update to a bunch of documents mainly stateful HPC and the related stuff do actn that how we are able to use the PC architecture and the PCF extension so far with the stateful HPC and Association objects etc on behalf of all the co-authors I am presenting this update since there are a couple of documents involved here I wanted to just show what is the relationship between these documents we have an applicability document which is an informational document which talks about how do we apply the various piece of extensions in architecture inside a CDM and I will talk about the update to that but apart from that we have the various extensions that come into picture we have the PCF LS part the stateful HTC part and the VN association part in this presentation I am focusing on the yellow dotted lines but peace fls and even the drop which must be which differ and just presented thus the state sink is also related to stateful HPC so all these drafts how they play a role in the actn that\u0027s the document map of which in fact some of the documents as as as we discuss our kind gendrich they are not just for in CT n you can use stateful htpc just of as a part of your p sub network and it doesn\u0027t have to follow the whole actn architecture and see Emma and all that stuff as well similarly piece fls is just a mechanism to carry link state within the pisa pisa pls is one of the ACCDN is one of the use case for it but it\u0027s an independent work as well the VN association is something that is kind of specific to a CDN that we have so starting with a stateful HPC the document is pretty straightforward it\u0027s an informational document which talks about how the HPC and the state for pc can be merged together to form stateful HPC basically it\u0027s an we already have a hierarchy PC what if those pcs are stateful pc then it is a hierarchy of stateful pc this was discussed I think in Ghana Cyrus and we had good feedback the kind of changes that are needed in protocol stefan is doing it in a generic way so that can anyway we used in this document this document that\u0027s why it\u0027s just informational it doesn\u0027t ask for any protocol changes in the document so what are the oh I\u0027m running through yes this is a so what are the changes that we made there were comments related to adding clarification on how the recursive nature works and it can go to multiple levels as for the hpc architecture so the idea is all piece of messages delegations of reports updates "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:58",
    "text": "can be done in a recursive way similar to how fun presented in the state draft the only differences that this is a parent pc and a child pc relationship rather than a master and a slave how do we know we clarified how the capability advertisement would be done we already have a HPC capability tlv as a part of pc her i key extensions and we have the stateful PCE capability tlv as well as the the bit that is added for inter pc communication together we can use that for advertising the stateful HPC capability how would we manage the state synchronization as per the previous presentation that you saw and are there any considerations with respect to scalability etc so we have tried to handle that how that can be taken care what kind of information that needs to be pushed up to the parent pc so our recommendation is that we need to report only the LSPs that the parent pc could use for its optimizations which is usually inter domain or the LSPs that he is personally involved in you don\u0027t have to push all the LSPs from all the child pcs to the parent pc and apart from that the pisa protocol allows you to have notifications and the other way to handle scalability as a part of stateful pc draft itself those are applicable even in stateful HPC case and we also took care of the security and the manageability considerations as well so we have tried to make sure that all the comments that we have received and the documents get a little bit better so that\u0027s the update for stateful HPC moving on to the VN Association I think the main concern here was that what would be the use of having this kind of association with in a P sub so within the actn working group we have talked about what is a Wien and how knowing which set of LSPs together form a virtual network is quite useful when we are thinking of reorganization sore when we are thinking of how to represent a virtual network for the end user as a selection as a as a list of BN members so having this association as a part of DC protocol could be very useful what are the cases we would like to optimize all LSPs belonging to a particular VN rather than doing this / LSP so having this kind of association I can have a better optimization functions and better policy to handle that and any VN specific action that I would like to perform having this relationship between the LSP is known in my her I key of controllers is useful so passing this information from parent to child is is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:58",
    "text": "needed so we uses we use the Association object itself add a new Association type for VN and rest of the procedure remains the same we added a charity to why we are doing this what are the cases that we would need to know this kind Association whether it is for fresh path computation or during the optimization where we would like to not just optimize a single LSD but optimize the whole VN that is collection of all LSPs needs to work together to get the best results for the easy TN scenarios so that\u0027s our main use case and that\u0027s why we feel passing this information could be is needed we also added a vendor information tlv support within this association object so that any vendor specific things we can pass from parent to child as well so now this is the document that brings everything else together it tries to say that how do we apply the various PC extensions of which are in place within the a CDN architecture this is the actn architecture it has basically some four functions which the MDS see and or the pnc is capable of I will go through it in the next slide basically in this document we list with in various ways in which ECF can be used but we also know that you don\u0027t have to use P sub for all the functions it\u0027s up to you but this aim of this document is list all the possibilities and then people can pick in for one of those functions they make still continue to use yang or BG pls but first another functions they want to use P sub so that flexibility could also be useful so what are the four functions the functions were multidomain coordination the virtualization and abstraction part the customer mapping part and the virtual service coordination part stateful HPC with the initiation functions under per domain stitched LSP mechanism is quite useful to achieve the multi domain coordination as well as for the customer mapping and translation the P sub LS part with the support for virtual networks and the various abstraction methods that we have talked in the t\u0027s working group can also meet the virtualization and the abstraction function of the actn to map between the virtual networks and the LSPs the VN Association our draft help to achieve this so this is the map basically saying that how the various actn functions can be achieved why are these extensions which are already available in the P sub space so what what are the changes that we did as I said that we clarified that PCF is not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:00",
    "text": "mandatory we are not saying with this route that p sub needs to do everything but we are giving a possibility that if you want to use P sub these are a set of tools that you should use we also added a reference to other drafts like Association policy or the state sing as well as the various abstraction methods so how that is applicable within a CDN context we also gotta come in to specify how does this relate to ECE base central control so we added a separate section that describes what is the relationship between the two and this also handles those comments okay so final side we want to know what\u0027s the best way to progress our documents the main thing is that some parts are independent they are not actn specific per se so I think the stateful HPC and the piece fls they have their validity or on their own but then we have the acct and specific drugs which are the acct and applicability and the VN Association so we need to figure it out as a working group what is the order that we are progressing in or how are we handling this you may have seen the some implementation reports we presented in the last ITF as well as well as there were some discussions on the mailing list where people are saying that part of what they have implemented so far we feel that we have able to handle all the comments that we have received now we need to figure it out in which order we could see the work moving thank you any comments the truth hi my name is michael zhrov this relates to the question that we had earlier in the morning or the cmi interface if you go to it I think slide number 9 where you show you know it was the one way but they are yet that\u0027s the third one here and actually I thought that the VN concept is on the cmi interface in actn now you extend p sep for the yen concept but you don\u0027t show it on the interface so this is this point said this morning it\u0027s confusing what exactly the role of CNY is and why what a VN concept this and I also think it\u0027s still unclear why you need that extension in piece of here but the bleeders can be clarified by this I think it\u0027s an issue in the actn architecture as a whole and by the way I mean the MMI interface is not well defined in actn i leave the actn part of that maybe we can focus on the piece of yeah yes what it is about don\u0027t have any concern for the feasible right now but as tell us that I think there\u0027s an unclear T in the AC Chen part of this and I think for the VN part of the presentation it\u0027s unclear how this exactly ties into actn but this is an easy to issue it\u0027s not a piece of issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "handled that as a part of easy deal yeah I was always going to say that sounds like a general actn issue so i think i think probably the way we would proceed is by looking at the applicability as being sort of the primary document for now and and staple hpca is being sort of an independent track and look at those two and the VN I guess um let\u0027s get by clarified in the actn architecture that looks uglier elbows okay um so on just just to check quickly has anyone who has read be applicability statement we have about 10 people okay and all those tan who would like to see the applicability statement adopted by pce it\u0027s about almost the same okay good and how about the stateful hpc II who is red the stateful hpc e rather more it\u0027s good okay maybe 15 and who would like to see that adopted by the pc working group okay it\u0027s like about 10 okay well that\u0027s a good start I think we will confirm both those on the mailing list thanks truth and next up is usually on okay so i\u0027m working here for my colleague you wanna hear you could not attend the IETF meeting this week I\u0027m going to introduce you a proposal about integra main spc that using the pc stateful architecture on extensions so I don\u0027t want to remind you all the beauty or PC architecture to address the entire domain programmed provision to the many recipes just 22 maybe put more emphasis on the specificities to the interdomain especially in taro is very strong restriction and what protocol can run over those interiors boundaries so typically LGBT isn\u0027t the cause really consider option to enforce NSPS across a s boundaries so there may be some cases where the PC architecture may help even if we don\u0027t have a DP messages across "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:01",
    "text": "those boundaries so today typically to address this kind of stuff if you have to macys in your group that won\u0027t rather nice be set up end to end we under under them separately and we may stitch em possibly using some bgp mechanism there but as soon as you want to do some key there there are some missing points so the idea here is to label the TR stitute to be applicable even to cut all those interests case use cases so the state will be RPC the proposal that extends the backward recursive procedure that is already defined in RFC 5441 if i remember correctly which allows to its draw chain of domains using the EP set messages having Purdom npc talking to each other so as to get some Milty domain global pass competition on here we propose to extend this procedure by having the state for messages namely the pc yet message to trigger a new TRS provisioning SB versioning over a chain of aces the idea is to make use of this message is to trigger the missing piece between yes to make the blue between those is and get what we call in the draft stitching level so as to be able to agree on the label to use to carry the traffic across the aes boundary between the neighbor Hayes\u0027s so it relies on the existing on a roll TC message and we propose to reuse the USB type that has been already proposed as we were talking you said before to distinguish between RSVP related to LSPs as our type as piece here keeping those two options we propose to have you had other cut point so as to cover sr4 entire domain cpt for inter domain honest don\u0027t cut pile to trigger labor location from the ASB are of the downstream the III as we are of the downswing denying so as to get label in the pc you import on senator pc from the blame on them up to the upstream domain so this is probably more clear what we\u0027re using drawing supposing we have a chain of three races each AAS as its own pc the waiter comes to the first one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "once the trigger dsb provisioning we have the visual all piece at Wragby separate exchange from be able to proceed but the offense we may end up with a shorter past three and possibly using passkey anchoring to I\u0027d the details with respond over the downstream Oasis and based on that the first PC to change figure a PC initiate we\u0027re using the City PD resulting hero to push some provisioning to the downstream domains on this peace initiative relay to serve them in here we may end up laying about the main sir make you safe passage routes procedure on back in each domain each autonomous system is able to push its configuration than to its network node using the pc yet to the Anoat the beauty of the idea that one a yes may choose to rely on as a pity problem the PSP segments while the other yet another racing chain mary died on second rotating to apply ESP conversion between it\u0027s the problems so based on that we have a report the edge of years via of the s3 here as identify the cut points for the entire domain case on in the report it includes the label to be used on the entire Dominion link between a stew and the s3 here we have the label which is allocated by the downstream domain it is reported up to the PC of the domain three on Wendell III gets back to the report to its actual rain evil a still able to use as interior areas bloom um PC to push the state down to its network nodes it realized this stitching rabbi labeled onto its nose that is installing the network elements so the procedures also learned we are all available to me uttering the main we use the same procedure but in the hatchery initiating the main we don\u0027t need any specific SP type let\u0027s be typed because the upstream the name is a need to allocate a label for another domain because it\u0027s the first remaining two chain so we end up in a global em to analyse be relying on me your basic mechanisms that are already find any shape to port on the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:05",
    "text": "opposite procedure only just add TC the type option to trigger then stitching of a location so the proposal when you lie on this draft which should should end up in ER see quite soon because we have already highly location pending on this do you think a political boss rsvp-te and sr a autonomous system so system remain autonomous in there t2 inside there on the rain on we also have a list of improvement to become 0 for further Emily\u0027s if there is interest on working with to to walk into that direction so issue our feedback please feel free to share it or send it by email if you prefer thank you any feedback visually yep anti from powys so I think actually at this job is very interesting so I think you are trying to make the piece if to have the essential on functionality of us with here right it means that you are trying to use hyssop to create end-to-end connections across multiple domains yeah you may describe it like this the glue between rather at the TC level instead of at the network level the network level they are just seeing what label is at the boundary on they don\u0027t see the river downstream or same naval domain has a part of the industry yeah so my question my comment is so on campus ship the price a sweetie outlink to create end connections in that architectural supposing love segment loading label on all your domains you may maybe maybe yeah you may have it yeah okay yeah so on another uncommon even do you think that if pccc can adjust your own requirements if we have 0 as you promised [Music] maybe there are some woman anyway I perspective IDs made are some similar ideas there I don\u0027t think pccc solve the blue of the stitching level let me try to address here but we may find some common ground between those ideas I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:06",
    "text": "guess so maybe we could look at that together in detail to see there is some commonalities to be maybe progress together similar to look at more detail at that so I think if there\u0027s a centralized pccc and the pccc can stand you know kiss it to the pound Angelo\u0027s enter stitching to LSPs look to thank Union yeah thank you thank you but I please please be brief proof through I like the idea I wanted that if sa label thing is not tightly coupled to staple brtc in the sense staple hpc can may also need that kind of view so if we can get the label thing and then the question is how do we write it in a general way I go back to Fatah that maybe the pccc kind of way was much more generous than this but it\u0027s kind of dated other than that I have small currents which we can handle offline but overall this thing one one thing which I wanted to also talk about is that initiate message when it is coming from a parent pc to child pc the relationship is kind of known but when the initiate message goes on the fear level from one pc who\u0027s hearing you to another pc we may have a little bit more like the security issues and the manageability parts of that relationship we may not have to evaluate a little bit yeah oh we on the bottom it\u0027s a zero version so has you know security is left for further seen you but you write as soon as you touch anything about inter-domain of all securities even something to be considered even deeper than for intra domain sorry well we\u0027re gonna have to take the rest of it the west coast with the iron schedule now we don\u0027t have time sorry um okay so you have some people Julia we can you know get some more on the mailing list and yeah hope that was useful thank you okay so next it\u0027s Rakesh rakesh we\u0027re a little squeezed for time so if you could like shake one minute of each of your presentations that would be awesome good afternoon everyone my name is Jacques candy and I\u0027m presenting a destruct and associated their bi-directional LSPs with PC on behalf of authors listed so we\u0027ll take a look at the requirements and scope of this document there are two association or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:06",
    "text": "initiation types defined in the document that there will have a look we\u0027ll review the PCF extensions proposing a document and discuss the next steps so basically associated bidirectionally recipes have been deployed in the packet transport networks in the RSVP world the recipes can be caught out adorned on carotid so the scope of the document is the either pc or pcc initiated bidirectional other space and it can also be user it\u0027s great that pc for example if you want to do a corrupted park competition so in case of double sided the initiate initiation the pc initiates the LSP on both endpoint nodes there is a new Association type defined for it and again LSP can be corrupted or non corrupted in this case and in case of single sided initiation the stateful PCE initiates the forward and reverse LSP on one end points of the bidirectional SP there is a new Association type defined for it there is also a tlv for the association that identifies the forward in reversal sv as well as can specify here the karate flag so as men there are two a new Association types defined and the rest of the field in the Association objects are populated using the RSVP RFC 75 751 so there is a deal we define for the Association object identifies a forward forward LSP reversal SP or if LSP is caught out it which can be used for path computation so it\u0027s fairly as a short and straight forward a document so we appreciate the review comments and suggestions so is this song slightly useful to have in the pce wall it\u0027s heavily used in the recipe in the transport networks and if we agree requests for working of adoption um so thanks for caching max if I keep in my short I think we need to take those questions one at a time so before we get to the working reproduction call I think we need to see some some comments and suggestions on the draft but we can certainly ask the first question who thinks that this is useful functionality to have yeah like 12 people or so so yes I mean that sounds "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:06",
    "text": "like there\u0027s decent support for working on this will be good to to see some comments and support on the list so good afternoon again I\u0027m request Guardian presenting this draft am on behalf of the authors this is for the PC piece of extensions for reporting the pls p PM parameters when using the stateful pc so agenda is as following we\u0027ll look at the requirement and scope of the document followed by the overview of the piece of extensions the PM matrix are delay loss and bennett utilization there is also a multiplication message defined and then we\u0027ll discuss the next steps so our first to give a high level picture or the protocol landscape on the left side we have RFC\u0027s and graphs that deals with those metrics for the links those are the igt and bgp extensions we also have the service aware draft in pc to use those extensions for the csv f park computation on the right side we had those extensions for te LSPs so we have RS RFC 6334 and 7806 for example to measure the those metrics what\u0027s missing is that stateful pc is not aware of those up performance metrics so this is what the district is addressing so basically requirements off our that there is a need for the stateful PCE to know about recipes n2n performance matrix like end-to-end delay and loss and vanity realization so it does do the path computation but it doesn\u0027t have the interregnum metric information which is measured by the pcc the bennett utilization can also be used by the state for pc to do the appropriate dynamic reservation for example if we want to implement the utter bandwidth at the stateful PC that does the Bradley computation so the scope of the dark is the PC to request and report and received at the performance metrics parameters for both the PC initiated and PCC initiated LSPs what\u0027s out of scope is that how this matrix are used by the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:07",
    "text": "stateful PCE and at the pc see how this matrix are measured there are separate RFC\u0027s and drops available for measuring those matrix so the overview of the PCF extensions proposed there is a measurement capability which is XA exchange in the beginning to make sure that they are capable of p.m. both the PC npcc followed by the PCE sending the measurement attributes request which is responded by measurement report from the PCC so there is a common set of measurement attributes defined for delay loss and manipulate with utilization each having their own tlv types so the attributes are measurement modes the measurement interval the threshold for reporting including the count and the trestle being absolute or percentage and interval report interval so these are common properties for all three matrix that\u0027s considered in the document so the similar to the bandwidth object that\u0027s defined we also defining delay and loss measurement objects for reporting those matrix so this is the definition of the delay measurement capability tlv there are two flags defined for unidirectional and bi-directional measurement capability so these are the typical object formats for reporting the delay so we have defined one-way average min max or delay variation and similarly a two-way values for them there is an alignment of those parameters with the link attributes the PM matrix so we are using the same attributes as well as same types similar to a delay there is a capability TL we defined for loss measurement as well we have unidirectional bidirectional loss measurement as well as we have infirmary more bust measurement now similar to a link for loss also the matrix are aligned with the link matrix where there is a packet loss is as a percentage of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:09",
    "text": "the total loss they reported just like a delay and loss there is a capability tlv also for the bandwidth utilization and the bandwidth utilization report contains a variable length tlv there is a new object I\u0027ve defined for the bandwidth object and how many samples are there in the in the report depends on the threshold and the interval so there is Bishop a notification message define in order to help with scale see if that is ever a piece stateful PCE getting overwhelmed there is a notification to inform PCC to temporarily suspend the notification and the values are defined to enter and clear the state so welcome your review comments and suggestions is this use useful functionality to have in the PC wall and yes we request for the working of adoption they entered Organa nokia so a the capability is useful would I do it that way no especially since I have this available today and there are mechanisms develop design for scale that do not overload protocol like yourself you can do it with telemetry you can do with any other things that this type of mechanisms are not scaling that\u0027s why we can have with a little bit more at scale mechanisms and other pc me has enough of the work to do to set up and react to to LSPs that overloading it with collecting performance information and she seems risky so I yeah the motivation is that pc is already getting a lot of LSP state information yrp subchannel so this is just a distant information that it would have everything at one place instead of having two channels or four different purpose but that\u0027s the motivation exactly saying you\u0027re overloading stuff and you\u0027re going to get their performance issues they are like it if you want to have this to really be a centralized control thing at scale having one channel to hand a lot of things it\u0027s not helping and and we breaking this purposely so there is this this is useful functionality it\u0027s available can be done I see like I really don\u0027t see any anything new other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:12",
    "text": "than adding stuff into the protocol doing it differently doesn\u0027t mean necessarily better okay please please try to keep your comments as we sure as possible with your general de de las one attached speaking we do now turn to there are pictured out the relationship the first one yet this one no is a list on this one so in this picture you describe the relationship in your draft and current upstage know so that you knew lon don\u0027t mention on p CEOs job because i think actually and measurement information part of the link information so i think peace EE LS it had very close relationship between your job and she say i asked yes yeah so so bgp igp is there we can also add a the GPL that step yeah i\u0027m saying pretty much same concerns ng yep breast so my question do you plan to only measure performance from adam respect or on behalf of Rinat in the network yeah so this is the PCC I hadn\u0027t sent to end performance from the head end but there\u0027s no association this particular LSP so I presume we will be just distributing your debt are closed EP into pieces and shouting captain pc incorrect no but these are initiated by your pc right so there is some there is an association not sure so class again you are going to send on information relevant to LSPs instantiation particular not right so you are missing the picture anywhere further down in the network if those are not directly managed by the pc then yeah they\u0027re nice but their pricing list right so pc wouldn\u0027t be aware of them and you would be kissing them listen thank you Young who has to have a blue sheet Sergio then he will not sign the blue sheets okay hello this is some work about the pc exp CP extension for there\u0027s air SP scheduling versus thanks all the authors and the contributors to this work this is sir ah this is what we have discussed in previous idea meeting and we have received some major comments the first is the motivation requirements and the use cases we have troops prepare also we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:12",
    "text": "have just a documenting tease to discuss the the motivation and requirements and finally we get some consensus in these groups as we decided the architecture for this problem and people think this is a good direction to go so now we come up back to tease our PPC to our to to provide the solution so the second question about the solution is how the pcc schedule will be synchronized between pc and a piece PCCs the answer is we use the pc report and the request and updated messager to do the synchronization and the last one is there are two jobs on the same problems so we work with other authors who provide a merge diversion which is available on the web sites people can read that much fortune and there are some updates in the new version and the the most important is yeah we two jobs has merged into the single solution for the problem we have discussed in case and the extra features for this version is we add the terrific Allaire SP scattering from the high most jobs and also we provide a quick graceful period and the alaska time interval for the for the scattering which can make the people can have more choices for the RSP scattering work and we also add a new section for the RSP update so what if we have already have a scheduled a resp but we want to update the information and some editorial changes so this is the home page of the PCA extension for there\u0027s a resp scattering and this is the architecture we have decided in the teeth dropped and during this in this document we just provide some peace app extension border up to carry on the time information between the PCC and the PCEs so next step so yeah we have make some congruent is for the architecture and the program itself so now we come up to the pset to provide the extension and provided a solution so now two jobs being merged into the single one and a single solution for this problem and then we want to ask the group whether it\u0027s ready for the adopt we may get one comment if someone wants to there\u0027s been a date today right of the document so I don\u0027t stick many people have actually read this latest version so apart from suggesting people to read that one which is the the first step to the merger of the two initiatives which "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:13",
    "text": "is a very good step for one I don\u0027t think we will do morrow today but thank you I think we are right on time so thank you very much hope you wanna sign the blue sheets if you have comments on this graph or other please use the mailing list try to use it as much as possible between the meetings and we\u0027ll see each other on friday morning for the join young session thank you bye you you "
  }
]