[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "but if you get your office and it was outreach just I it is what update your work absolutely are you our fearless leader for today no I don\u0027t believe here\u0027s this will be required let\u0027s see there\u0027s a button for those folks remote an indication in the chatroom that you can hear would be useful and we are about to get started we\u0027re waiting for a couple of key folks to float into the room "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:11",
    "text": "all right the radius meeting we saw that the preferred meeting venue was just a dial in from embed score yeah I dialed in from the the restaurant for TLS I thought it was better than sitting in the room with all the people and a note that says hearing is okay love that thank you all right um so we\u0027re gonna get started here we\u0027re waiting for Elliot to show but and Elliot showed what a deal well either way welcome welcome to meeting venue we are we had one request for an agenda Bash the agenda is now on the screen the one request for the agenda Bash was to let Suresh go first since it\u0027s basically a summary and we think we\u0027re moving along rather nicely everybody okay with that I I see no screams of horror so Suresh why don\u0027t you go through your update and you don\u0027t have any particular slides do you and and and there\u0027s a mic and a pink box that you\u0027re meant to stand in hey all I\u0027m serious like I\u0027m author of one of the working group documents that\u0027s the high-level meeting policy so this one is like kind of converged like already last meeting and we had like some small open items so I actually had an open item section in the draft and that\u0027s now gone so the open items were weather attracting new participants is like a explicit goal of this policy and the consensus was it was not so that\u0027s gone and another thing was like how do we describe exploratory meetings so there are some meetings like you know the old Yokohama meeting not the one or the one before and like Amsterdam meeting which kind of ended up being exploratory meetings but right now look like a regular meeting because they\u0027re on Europe and Asia but they didn\u0027t have any meetings in Europe in Asia so I added those things in there and remove the stuff about whether we should do stuff by our ion or not so one of the things that came out was like we don\u0027t want to define this with too much precision so we want to be like a little bit flexible on how the areas are defined so we decided to not bike shed that thing so that stuff is removed now I saw and I believe the document is ready for work no class call and there\u0027s no open comments but willing to take any comments here or on the mailing list um so did anybody have anything for suresh\u0027s document or are we good for a quick working group last call and send it off to the ASG after that I love the sound of crickets all right so that should be simple we\u0027ll talk about next steps after we get done with Elliot\u0027s document but I think I\u0027m good to go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:12",
    "text": "so you you your current Rev that is out there is the one that you believe is work ready for working professional great perfect thank you all right thank you sir sure Elliot would you prefer I can drive slides and you can sit if you want or if you want to be in the pink box or whatever works okay so where you can sit in the box whatever you like um bring a chair you know are you yeah I think if you sit on the floor in the box the camera won\u0027t see you wherever you want to be yeah if you need to get up you can get up okay let me get the the few slides up they are out on the meeting materials site now a little late but you know better late than never well there\u0027s a mic right there too so all right so we are discussing the selection process document I posted a list of issues that I believed were resolved and issues that I believed needed more discussion if people wanted to discuss them these are the issues save one that were I thought people might want to discuss and so I\u0027m gonna go through these one by one just quickly and make sure that we are all on board with moving along so the first was issue number six which was I believe Andrews initial terminology hard to follow comments and I believe these are now resolved no one spoke up to say oh my god we need to change terminology again so I\u0027m going to presume by the eyeballs looking at me none of which are complaining that we\u0027re good to go so that\u0027s going to be closed as resolved there was a an issue number fifteen distinction between two requirements and I believe that was a misunderstanding on the part of participants as I noted on the list and so I\u0027m gonna close that with no change unless there is some objection if folks want me to I\u0027ve got the github that I can project but if these are not recognizable to you and you think just fine we\u0027ll expect you\u0027ll go over it again and working the blast call the issue eighteen align mandatories with values was Laura\u0027s message back in February it got a little bit of discussion but not very much I\u0027m basically gonna hold that issue open for working group last call review and we\u0027ll talk about that in a moment but I think there\u0027s no particular change given our last two revs there was issue number 22 which is about freedom of expression I heard no one speak up that there needed to be any additional text so I think that is closed with no change and then there was issue number 23 no guns I heard no support on the list for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:13",
    "text": "that save the person who proposed it so again I\u0027m saying closing that with no change correct a Barry\u0027s question from the floor was the issue for 23 22 or 23 were you asking 23 the issue for 23 it was proposed that some text be added there was no support beyond the person who proposed it and so I\u0027m saying that that issue is closed with no change to the document so anyone want to speak to these now or forever hold your peace not referring to a gun at well until last call all right so I will go ahead and close these and github and consider those issues close that leaves the two open issues one which has been in github and one which Elliott just and I don\u0027t we don\u0027t even have it in github yet but open this week and I\u0027ll talk about that in a moment the first is issue 20 which was Brian\u0027s suggestion that most of the occurrences of IAO see in the document actually were more properly I asseh Brian went and proposed a fall old new replacement text Elliott went through them I believe now has text prepared to replace with and I didn\u0027t hear any objections on the list from what we\u0027ve got Elliott did you want to speak to what you\u0027ve got in there and what you think is ready to go yeah I took all of Brian\u0027s proposed changes with one exception which is he called the meetings committee a subcommittee you know he referred to meetings committee in some sort of subordinate way to directly subordinate to I ass and it\u0027s really a an IOC committee and as that is the factual case I thought I would just leave the IOC reference in Hertz I think it\u0027s editorial but there\u0027s thought other than that I took all of James berry-berry just because I was looking up issues in the in the github repository is a quick link to that oh well and and why isn\u0027t it accessible from any of the pages I get to when I look up the work it\u0027s certainly on the agenda page but yeah that would be a good answer yeah it\u0027s on our agenda then you each and the data tracker there\u0027s an eval section and it should be in there as well as there\u0027s something to the drafts good sorry about that I should have put it on the slides repeatedly but alright so I believe we\u0027ve got the IAO C versus I asked a thing covered does anybody have any concerns about that I love the way this is going we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:13",
    "text": "gonna be out of here in a half hour all right so then the only issue left is the travel barriers issue so if you were reading the list this week Eliot posted a message basically the section on travel barriers which includes visa requirements got some running code run against it this week because of the San Francisco issue and Eliot\u0027s question was well does the text match what actually happened now I believe I posted and that there\u0027s a double negative in the current text and Eliot thought that it actually didn\u0027t match what happened I believe in John Levine followed up on this that the text actually does match what happened but either way the text needs to be clarified because you can\u0027t that you can read it the opposite way it\u0027s meant it says that the vast the overwhelming majority of people have to be able to get there which is I believe what happened in this case was it was decided that the majority was not overwhelming enough of people who could get to San Francisco and therefore the meeting had to move but the way it\u0027s written is very upside-down with if not a double negative it\u0027s just confusing and then they were followed up with a discussion of whether we wanted to attach some numeric value either percentage or numbers of bodies to and there were some back-and-forth about that I\u0027d like to open the discussion on the latter issue especially but if folks have comments about how they it could be better clarified just the text that would be useful as well yeah it could have been is individual contributor just to make sure that you can\u0027t leave home can\u0027t leave in like two minutes I\u0027m disagreeing I think the meeting was moved because there was a large uncertainty about what would happen the travel barriers didn\u0027t really notice be change for the participants yet and the other point but so ladies it\u0027s just a guess right and the other point about it and the decision to move the meeting is also about timing so if you can make a decision early in advance it\u0027s cheaper than if you have to make a last-minute decision and I don\u0027t think that anything about in certainty or fears that people may have have which may map reality or not which lead to people not coming even so there are no barriers but you know just because there might be some at the point where the actual travel this is not kept out at all one comment on that because I don\u0027t know if people have the text in front of them but it says travel barriers to entry including visa requirements are unlikely to impede attendance by the overwhelming majority of participants to me that kind of matches the scenario of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:13",
    "text": "what happened I believe that it can be read to take in the uncertainty but maybe it needs that interpretation maybe needs to be made more more clear because I already read it that way that it was trying to take in the uncertainty and being purposefully vague so that it could account for that but I curious to think you know hear what others others say and if you have more thoughts on it hi Bob Indians so I\u0027m on the meetings committee and so the thing that caused the meetings committee to recommend moving it was the sort of to reduce risk that it would be a successful meeting and it wasn\u0027t you know we didn\u0027t know what was no one knows what you know when it\u0027s time for people to be getting visas for or for what would have been the San Francisco mean nobody knows what the policy will be and it seemed like there was going to be a lot of unser as to whether there would be policies that would be interfere with people attending the meeting and there didn\u0027t seem other than some some cost of a cancellation there didn\u0027t seem to be a downside to having it there so that was me that\u0027s what happened you know in between you know when it was announced in Chicago when it first got there was first to be action about this so so not exactly sure what the right words are and let me put the question to you given the current words do you feel like the meetings committee could have looked at the current words and said yeah this is a justification for changing things based on what it says in the document we should go and make the change or we\u0027re justified in making the change or or maybe another way to look at it is I don\u0027t think we want to have words that would have kept the meetings committee from doing the right thing right I mean because it was driven not by the words in this document by a maza the actions in the real world right I mean you would have what I guess I\u0027m asking is do the current words make you feel like yes we are not doing something against the community\u0027s wishes given the community expressed it if the community had expressed it in the document in this particular way I would tend to think but I haven\u0027t looked at them and today so yeah I\u0027m not the words oh yeah my guess is is probably fine but if you wanna show me the words yeah oh maybe they should speak there so there are the words travel barriers to entry including visa requirements are unlikely to impede attendance yes sorry "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:14",
    "text": "and and the context is not deeply helpful which I think again points to wanting to clarify this section in general but yeah it goes through a list of what makes for a reasonable venue city criteria one of them is travel barriers to entry including visa requirements are unlikely to impede attendance by an overwhelming majority of participants yeah I don\u0027t think this would have kept the kept what happened to have happened and would it have encouraged you that okay yeah this is the kind of situation that this anticipates so do it in the positive and the negative would this have said yeah this is the kind of thing this community wants us to consider and that Lesley go ahead Lesley Nagel um so the I think these venues venues city criteria work for evaluating cities at any point in time which is what the meetings committee does it was the IOC that actually took the decision to move the meeting based on the recommendation from the meetings committee as well as the other research that we did is outlined in the note that I sent however many hours or days ago that was I think that the challenge I have with this Texas I think that it that this set of criteria identifies candidate locations at any given point in time but doesn\u0027t really speak to the question of when is it a good idea to change right so did we leave San Francisco because it ceased being a valid venue for the meeting did we leave San Francisco because there was a better venue for a more successful meeting that would where the trade-off of more likely successful meeting was in favor of that rather than cost of moving and I think that\u0027s what we did and I think that that means that modulo number of negatives the wording here is okay and the challenge is more in a later part when it talks about late changes and I\u0027m I don\u0027t have I reread that text but I don\u0027t have it in my mind right now and I think that\u0027s maybe where we want to look at the difference but Elliot I think maybe disagree no no I think there are probably two problems with the text it could be that there\u0027s a problem down below but I think there\u0027s still a problem above the problem above is the double negative yes which we we might we need to invert the double negative somehow so it\u0027s a positive statement so that just for clarity yeah for slow people such as myself I don\u0027t disagree I think also where we say impede I think what we really need is in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:14",
    "text": "pewter discouraged to be to be more clear and but we\u0027ll have to turn that again into a positive and I need some warning on that then if you go down too late where the the subject the the section entitled late typo and in not a type of what a word oh and though it\u0027s it it should be reviewed not reviews late reviews I think yeah okay okay so this is the text around light changes this was an initial attempt to address comments that that said well you know we don\u0027t want to have a lot of process I mean in the document around late changes we want to have this there\u0027s a stab at a little bit of process to say here\u0027s sort of how the IOC operates so if there\u0027s a change that\u0027s needed here let\u0027s and actually reading it now on the screen here I think this is fine because gauging the cost of making the change against the ability the idea to conclude a successful meeting is exactly what we thought we were doing we made a determination based on the information we had from consulting various sources including the community about moving the dates and also including people\u0027s experiences and coming to Chicago so while we couldn\u0027t very well say hey you know let\u0027s let\u0027s have a vote about where we rather go I think that what we did fits in this and I think I would like to hear from people they think what we did did not fit within this region accouterments it I think it actually fits but also because all of the qualifying quantifying words here are very unclear that like when does the circumstances have significantly changed right and there\u0027s another significantly and the other sentence say and that you know makes the decision again kind of as random as without having the guidance well I mean the this was a discussion we\u0027ve had for quite some time is that you\u0027ve got a there\u0027s got to be a judgement call at some point by the IOC that it is significant or as in the earlier paragraph it says unlikely that it is unlikely or is likely that people will have trouble getting visas those those kinds of weasel words I think have to be in the document just to give enough latitude so we\u0027re not in the well we think sixty people can or can\u0027t MIT well how about sixty how about 15 but I think actually the word significant country here doesn\u0027t really help so if the circumstances that are important military have changed you should reconsider Brian Brian Rosen um I want to apply what you just said specifically to the to the other section where you use the words significant majority over well overwhelming majority okay so majority 1200 roughly twelve hundred things at majorities six hundred an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:15",
    "text": "overwhelming majority is a hundred right I I would I would like you to come up with another set of weasel words that it leads you to believe that twenty five fifty is a number that were starting to worry about and not to but not a hundred or two hundred which would most people would consider overwhelming majority of a twelve hundred meeting person to be eleven hundred if I may just ask point of information from people who are on the meetings committee or people who are working with Ray one of the questions that came to him on the list was you know we always get some people who are turned away or discouraged for some reason do we have some sort of baseline number we have some sort of notion as to where that that number sits deliberately sent just looking at spire graph and I\u0027ll come back to what Lesley said so I think said when it was being talked about the meetings committee in the IOC were deciding whether to move the venue that both that San Francisco still met the the meeting criteria that we had up at the beginning the meeting venue criteria it\u0027s still met that but there was another venue that seemed to meet it better what that first sentence says it says if you don\u0027t meet the criteria then you reconsider so doesn\u0027t work at the moment in my reading and and what I think either Lesley or Bob said was the the issue here was a concern that at some point in the future it might not meet the criteria and could be changed straightforwardly enough to be sure that we met the criteria yeah I mean I supposed to Reese this was the question of whether this document as a whole must support the decision that was made well - Elliot\u0027s point of posting this in the first place we we would like it to be the case that the document at least does not look insane in the face of running code and and so insofar as we go well that\u0027s an edge case and it\u0027s okay that it was not perfectly captured I think that\u0027s fine if we say this doesn\u0027t really represent what the IOC can do and feels that they should do then we probably need to change things so joelly it\u0027s just a quick observation this text here talks about when the IOC must reconsider it doesn\u0027t say it must not reconsider in any other circumstance I mean maybe it makes sense to be more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "clear and say it may reconsider any time it feels like but I think that\u0027s implied this just says in this circumstance you have to reconsider I really but I don\u0027t think we want to say that the IOC can reconsider whenever it feels like but that\u0027s someone I got up here to say the I think what can fix the the issue that just came up is where learns that a venue\u0027s circumstances have changed such that the important or mandatory quite such that it is uncertain whether the important or mandatory criteria can still be met many nuts being honest any unwilling to wordsmith live hot sure Mike but I think that my sense is that we we used to be sure and now we\u0027re not this is what I\u0027m trying to get across Jordi ballot I am late it was more concerning the the previous point that we were discussing but I was trying to find my email in the mailing list and I was not able to find it quickly I think it was a couple of days ago I mentioned one of the things that I am not really sure is covered with the actual document is are we willing to travel to a country that this allow us to bring our computers on the plane and I am not really sure that\u0027s covered by the actual text maybe it\u0027s some small change but I think that\u0027s probably key for most of us because if we cannot carry over computers or more I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s a qualifying venue or not can I make a suggestion that we treat that as a we treat that by considering various Chantry in the broadest possible sense that was yeah I think that\u0027s probably my read is that travel barriers is to be read broadly yeah I wouldn\u0027t yeah go there too much either I mean I just had to do this last month where I had to check my computer in the I was on Turkish errand lunch from Istanbul but these rules also change a lot and it was annoying but it didn\u0027t stop me from doing anything other than I couldn\u0027t use my computer on board so it wouldn\u0027t you know as long as long as you can bring your computer if you couldn\u0027t bring your computer to the meeting that would be different but now this is annoying it\u0027s not showstopper yeah and and and and I think yeah that Bob\u0027s comment goes exactly to we don\u0027t want to over constrain the text to make it so that we have to pick out every possible contingency broad travel problems would be what we\u0027re worried about yeah me again so I would actually read "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:17",
    "text": "in a more closest since I would read a travel barrier as something where I actually can\u0027t enter the country and like a decision because there are some stuff I have to do and that brings me to my decision to decision that I don\u0027t want to enter the country is maybe something else but I think that should be considered in the same way like if everybody says we just don\u0027t want to go there we could you shouldn\u0027t hold a meeting there yeah yeah Jonathan it sounds like we probably could use weasel words about travel barriers be but I vigorously concur with the plan that weekly we construed travel vet barriers broadly because frankly we cannot predict when they will be like the laptop banned for you and me it is a it\u0027s an annoyance my understanding is there there are companies with with corporate policies that you may not check your laptop because we\u0027re worried that they\u0027ll be stolen for them you know that\u0027s a deal-breaker and similarly you know we hear stories about you know we go to a country where you need a visa and visa offices for some reason are in places that are very hard for a lot of our people to get to you know it\u0027s like as we saw on the mailing list somebody said gee there\u0027s no Czech consulate you know and it turns out there\u0027s there\u0027s a there\u0027s a secret backdoor that you can use you can go to you can go to the German Consulate instead and get the same visa which turns out to be a workaround for that but you can\u0027t count on that so but since we cannot interpret since we cannot anticipate these I mean maybe throw in a description that travel barriers means travel barriers in the bin the broadest possible sense and don\u0027t don\u0027t try to guess because we\u0027re really bad at that Leslie that\u0027s illegal um so I was just partly trying to respond to this notion of you know is that is not being able to bring your laptop of travel barrier or not it may be reasonable as an additional venue city criterion to have something along the lines of stating what I would consider to be the obvious which is the venue city will actually support a productive meeting and I don\u0027t mean that flippantly because I mean that\u0027s that\u0027s largely the basis of choices here it\u0027s the ability of the IETF to conclude a successful meeting is what drives where we go and it\u0027s it\u0027s not cut and dried we already have explored this notion of should we not should we change a venue because of the possibility of having our computer\u0027s hard drives explored on entry to the country and I\u0027m talking about 2000 London in 2000 so it\u0027s not uncommon and the only thing I would say is when whether we choose to make these changes has to be gated on how close are we to the meeting because it\u0027s a very big difference between choosing to move should move IETF 98 out of the US versus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "moving IETF 102 in 2017 so I just want to summarize where I\u0027m at so far what I hear Elliot\u0027s tasks to be is gotta fix the double negative one way or the other I\u0027m hearing the is so far editors choice to propose Tech\u0027s that either broadens travel ban or adds another bullet to somehow indicate support for the meeting or support for facilities and whatever you come up with it\u0027ll address Leslie\u0027s last comment yeah does that make sense it does unfortunately I\u0027m I must admit that I\u0027m struggling on inverting the double negative give me the second one again because I think the second one was plausibly add another oh yes I have it okay here\u0027s another criterion that we looked at remember at the beginning we were a different section where we had a few criterion we thought Leslie I understood me yeah you want to doesn\u0027t add that as a criteria in Section three whatever it was okay I\u0027ll need to see some some text there but what I was going to do for the in terms of just talking about travel barriers I\u0027m literally going to say and tell me if I\u0027m off here is the term travel barriers is to be read broadly by the is ax in considering venues was what I was gonna add oh and the way is now here so I want to just repeat my question for him which is this if do you have some sort of baseline number for the sorta number of people that are on average turned away due to travel policies or other things ray Pelletier no that was very dramatic Rain Man [Laughter] okay so Elliott\u0027s probably gonna need some help on the removing the double negative text but we\u0027ll certainly do that on the list okay Colin please so this was speaking to last point I was just talking about on the barrister intro I think it\u0027s important that that as we read that broadly to it is read as things that cause people not to people to not want to come okay not things that would be you know legal like if Canada suddenly we required you have a maple leaf tattoo to come to Canada okay everyone could get a tattoo it there not right there\u0027s not like we just can\u0027t get them but we didn\u0027t some people probably wouldn\u0027t want to right so I think it has to be those types of things and I don\u0027t want to trying it as specifics or laptops or wherever but I was involved in another conference that we had to cancel in Africa because of Ebola it was a very difficult decision to decide what\u0027s the risk of this spreading and I know we have health stuff i I think think it\u0027s I think we need to keep this very open to apply common sense as we have and the running code that they\u0027re currently "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:17",
    "text": "running of chance of a successful meeting is far more important than an argument about whether someone could or could not get into the country yeah and Charles said quietly before maybe the differences between barrier and hurdle but capturing that somehow yeah I point taken and there are none barrier than I Sean Leonard also note the travel barriers can change frequently and existing travel barriers at the time of contracting may go away by the time of the meeting such as the u.s. Argentine entry fee fee slash tax can\u0027t predict reliably consider it mention that it can change either way I agree that it depends how close we are to the meeting text to that effect is good yep I think that agrees with where we\u0027ve been going me again yeah I was also wondering if I look at the process that happened this time if there should be a recommendation if the uncertainty uncertainty is very high that for one specific decision actually it\u0027s good to survey the community and get some feedback and get actually some numbers that I mean this is what happened this time so I guess Elliot do you have enough to go on at least to start throwing straw men up on the list to get the feedback you need okay so nothing like a little live editing the term travel barriers is to be read in to be read broadly by the is and the context of whether a successful meeting can be has simply put I think that should address Collins point and I think it addressed other people point I at least I hope it does then the to invert that let\u0027s claim that\u0027s editorial I\u0027ll work with with peep who is very good with words and and has been helping me in other ways so I\u0027ll solve that editorially and then Leslie has asked for consideration of text above in I think there is some text above in terms of principles and I\u0027ll just need to check to see if it covers this this would be in the venue selection objectives and if there\u0027s something to squeeze something in there I\u0027ll look but it could be that it\u0027s already well covered and so in that case I\u0027ll leave it alone so my plan on this one is I\u0027ll open up a github issue or two on this set of issues and yeah I think Elliott you\u0027re right will you and I can hash out a little and then we\u0027ll propose something to the list and yeah and get something figure it out all right so I think have we discussed that enough I think we\u0027re good all right so get our slides back on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:25",
    "text": "the screen so we are up to does magic happen next steps so the plan is Elliott publishes a - oh eight once we get this text worked out that may take a little bit after that we will start a two-week working group last call just to do a final pass make sure everybody\u0027s convinced as part of that simultaneously with that I talked to Laura in the Secretariat I would like the Secretariat folks who sort of pulled the knobs and levers of the actual process to do a sanity check of the document because there were issues upfront about was this manageable was this you know workable I\u0027d like them to simultaneously do a scrub of it and make sure that we have gotten some of the insanity out and kept all the same parts and that\u0027s when I referred to that open issue earlier of you know making sure values match mandatories and things I think that was part of Laura\u0027s initial review and she\u0027s agreed that and and it may not be two weeks but somewhere after last call working group last call starts and a few weeks thereafter she\u0027s gonna be able to do a review of the document to confirm that and give feedback to the list on that after that\u0027s done and we resolve any outstanding issues that come up during working group last call then we\u0027ll go for publication request I am hoping this all takes place in the next four to six weeks that\u0027s the plan please be ready to notice the working group last call when it hits the list and give the document a final read alright any other issues on the venue selection document that we have not discussed yay love it are we ahead of schedule at 4:00 p.m. I think we are we\u0027re doing great I think Jordy is the last one left on the agenda let me get the agenda back up again de the agenda slide I in fact when I sent them to Charles I said look at the slides that\u0027s what they are all right so we are well ahead we have completed Suresh at the beginning we\u0027ve taken care of Eliot\u0027s document so we\u0027ve got the meeting network and other technical requirements which Jordi the there was a copy-paste error it is correct in the meeting materials but Jordi\u0027s individual submission on this and that\u0027s not it that\u0027s the previous "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:25",
    "text": "document well we\u0027ll update the the agenda to be clear in the meaning materials page it\u0027s got a pointer to Georgie\u0027s document so did you want to get up in and do I have your slides I should but you know that would probably be way ahead of the game let me get there how many people has read the document I know at least one person read it because provided inputs so just one normal there we go let me get them in presentation mode one moment we are ahead of schedule so no problem slideshow how about on the other screen hold on yeah that\u0027s what I got to do there we go you slideshow okay if you can go straight to the second one just just for those that don\u0027t know the the bit of history of this document in 2005 I think it goes Bryan Carpenter has asked me to to work in two documents actually the first one was what Eliot now is taking care more or less it was a different kind of document but more or less I think the idea of the contents is is almost the same and also to work on a document describing the technical requirements that that we have for our met were and other other pieces of technical things like power and things like that okay so not just the network so the idea was at that point to coordinate somehow about documents but we didn\u0027t have a working group at that time and well somehow it didn\u0027t move it from there and and they died so about a couple of months ago I think it was in April I was participating in a on-site survey together which which the staff from AMS and and Jim from from the NOC and in the discussions that we have during that week we realized that it it will be a good idea probably to help also revive it this technical document and that\u0027s what basically ate it and fortunately I had a lot of work and I plan it to do that much more time that they could off deadline but I could only finish that weekend before and I like it for some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:27",
    "text": "inputs for example from from Jim that that was not able to take over so I expect many many comments from from Jim probably but I think that in general what we have in that document right now is quite close to the actual requirements because it was what we have a few years ago and also what I learned during that week visiting I think we visited eight or nine different venues and one interesting thing is in the document I don\u0027t try to go very deeply into technical details about how many fibers we need to happen every floor things like that because there are many situations where you can do the same in different ways so it\u0027s it\u0027s general but enough for the the team doing the survey on site from the NOC to take the decision about if the venue will let\u0027s say survive through our technical requirements of not next next slide please yeah next one it\u0027s a PDF so you can just go up yeah my computer has decided that it is wanting to do something different okay their computer don\u0027t like the presentation or you don\u0027t like the presentation you know okay so the next one so what I have here is only the table of contents the the goal of this presentation was not actually to discuss about all the details of the document is just to to let know the people that the document is there the table of contents basically didn\u0027t change it from what I did in 2005-2006 I prove it what I realized that during the the week or participating in the on-site survey and I think I had one new point which is number nine multi property building meetings because we discovered the situation that that we really need to specify something about that and I provided actually input to the other document about the same the same point so next one please the point here will be I would like to to get inputs I am not sure if people has not read that the document right now don\u0027t don\u0027t have too many questions "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "right now but I think it will be a good idea to have this as a working group item as well skull Ingenix is clarifying I didn\u0027t understand what you meant a couple slides the two drafts so explain the two drafts to me again no no no this what it\u0027s all I said also it doesn\u0027t matter okay it\u0027s it\u0027s the number one is it was the first version of what we now in this working group but but just to tell you about the history of this not notice it\u0027s not related to the technical draft so right now we have only number two okay this is very I\u0027m not sure that this is a useful thing for early planning we we have something saying that the technical requirements of the meeting will be met right that basically we can have a meeting a lot of these network details we\u0027re not going to know until much later in the process for instance at the Seoul meeting we weren\u0027t sure we were actually going to have a meeting network for a while during the months leading up to the meeting because of lack of a sponsor for the network and you know who was gonna take care of it and it eventually fell into place and we had it I don\u0027t know how much of this we can actually apply at the time we\u0027re doing me there is one secksy okay there is one section here which is section 11 and part of that is explained it also in the introduction which explained that during the first approach that we do on the on the survey of the venue which is done typically three or four years in advance we really need to make sure that we are that that that venue that facility actually is able to accommodate the network and if we don\u0027t have a criteria well with the note right maybe Jim want to mention something about that sure so let me clarify just because I\u0027m a guy who\u0027s been doing it we absolutely do figure out every detail down to what ports we plug things into and what fibers we\u0027d use when we\u0027re doing the analysis at the site qualification level the reason for that is we need to nail down what how we would do it if we do choose to lose location and more importantly if there are modifications that are necessary to the facility to allow us to come I\u0027ll use a an example in this building we learned that there was insufficient fiber to really do we wanted so we had in the in the agreement that they would install fiber for us before we came back and so it\u0027s critical that we understand what the real requirements are and evaluate the potential locations against those requirements I believe what Georgie\u0027s doing here is merely documenting what unfortunately has existed only in my head or some of my team and I think this is a laudable thing just because it allows us to have some basis to move forward from okay thanks so the last sentence of that is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:28",
    "text": "what I was really going to ask you as the bottom line is it important for us to have that written down as opposed to just saying we need to be able to put up a network and you just said yes it is so forget what I said [Laughter] joelly this might also be extraneous now I was just gonna say that if Jim hadn\u0027t said that if Jim it said we already have these requirements already written down somewhere else and we\u0027re fine thanks there\u0027s still loads of really good stuff in this document and if this was a BCP of how you do networks of meetings in general it\u0027s still really important to push there so I don\u0027t think even needs to be in this working group to be relevant I I found a web page I think I put it in the mailing list I think that what page was edited in the IOC website in 2009 and I was comparing both text and I believe that that webpage was based on my initial draft I don\u0027t know who did that webpage Jim can say but probably that information is what what it was in my draft in 2005 so this is Elliott my question is really for Jim actually so the and it\u0027s really this which is how frequently do these requirements change they do not change are they well being that he specifically brought up the last version of the document that version to document is sadly outdated and so the fact that there was I think was 2009 was the last time yes and to answer the earlier question myself and a number of the members of the not team worked on that I can\u0027t Karen or Don you drove the process but the base require don\u0027t change terribly they do evolve a bit over time but on the scale of a change every couple of years maybe three years of a substantive a substantive change for example one of the things I did I try it to keep those things that probably will change somehow open and one example can be different wireless technologies or more advanced cordless technologies or for example in terms of language banquet for the veneers so right now I think I was suggesting something like 1g clings but probably in the future I was mentioning that it will be the same cost to taint ng links right so things like that can we can we get open in such a way that we don\u0027t really need to update the document maybe ten years from now but not every year or anything like that yeah Charles ecologist as an individual cuz um yeah I think I remember asking this because in the dock in your dock you Nelly its document are draft I think it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:28",
    "text": "has a link to the network requirements which are the old ones and and so okay well well it\u0027s just just two things first of all I think either you know one or the other should go forward either a draft or link so it\u0027s not confusing which one I was thinking it might be better to just update the web page and have a web page that can change but that really depends maybe you can answer that better but that\u0027s what I was thinking instead of a draft perhaps we just keep the web page up to date and change that as needed I think the advantage of having a document a draft for FC or whatever is first is is it\u0027s a way to do the things second you are sure that this is useful not just for you but also for other entities doing similar networks and we kick updating FF C\u0027s every time we need four kind of protocol so I don\u0027t think updating a document is so much different that than updating a what Bates actually I think it works much better because it\u0027s something let\u0027s say more serious somehow I I agree that frankly going through the ietf process on our our baseline is not a bad idea just because this is being done for the ITF if people disagree with what we have for requirements then it\u0027s worth the discussion and so I think it\u0027s useful to go through the process that said we may we certainly need to make sure that there\u0027s a easy place to get to this from the various websites because Edie is often that a potential venue wants to look at what are our requirements for the network and so having that available in some way that is up more accessible to normal people rather than you know we\u0027re all very comfortable RFC\u0027s the rest the world ISM so they I guess also that the same that when we finish the the other document there will be a page for for error of course for for venue selection we can put a link to both RFC\u0027s right so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s not a problem so let\u0027s get Rey and Jo and then I\u0027ve got some logistical process things that we probably need to discuss so we we paper these these meetings with documents you know contracts and mo use and things like that and when we do RFPs we send out what our requirements are and our requirements change and well I will we be able to use this document for example as part of our RFP will I be able to take the circuit information from this and put in the MOU for the connectivity provider and when will that change and it frankly changes more often then the moot-kher-tou amid certainly more often than every ten years so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:28",
    "text": "frankly I think that\u0027s kind of heavyweight I think we updated the document that was online and you probably just fine if we updated our RFP requirements would be probably just fine again I don\u0027t I like I like the idea that Jim saying about having a discussion have a discussion I I I don\u0027t think that when you sign a contract you will copy and paste any of both documents you just write down the contract or you have probably a model so the way this document is write down is generic enough to not force you to change the document to sign a contract you know what I mean it should be accurate enough to describe what our requirements are I I think that that it\u0027s it\u0027s difficult if you don\u0027t read the document is difficult to understand what I am trying to say so I will recommend the people to really read the document to to to know that this is it\u0027s a generic way to describing what our requirements not necessary need to be part of the contract the document itself okay Joe it\u0027s a way to evaluate our net worth the facility to accommodate our network sharable is a to really quick points it sounds like that last one was raised saying if this is gonna be useful to me one of the requirements for your document is I should be able to say implement the requirements as supply as specified in RFC something and have that mean something that\u0027s acceptable to a lawyer I don\u0027t know but the other point I was gonna make which is the main point is that one other benefit of putting this in the RFC series and bumping in every now and then is we have a historical record of how we ran meetings yeah which otherwise we don\u0027t have and I think that\u0027s useful so then go ahead Bob why don\u0027t you before I jump in yeah I mean I try to read this sorry just I I think there\u0027s a couple things it shouldn\u0027t be it shouldn\u0027t nail down specific technologies because they change it should be requirements I don\u0027t know if this is should be the thing that Ray puts in the contract or not I think it probably shouldn\u0027t be because I think that has to be more specific in prayer tailored towards a specific venue but that\u0027s something that Jim you know that\u0027s why he goes on does the site visits and looks at the technology in the venue and all of that this should be the things that we the community think we we would lot or what we you know well like the other document I think we are saying the same this is for us to evaluate the facility not to sign the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:28",
    "text": "contract okay not to tell in the contract specific requirements that are only in the document it just to be able to have a process to evaluate the technical needs barry sean leonard i would like to see more how more network hotel considerations right now I understand that IETF - hotel access is mandatory only for the primary meeting hotel lots of people end up at secondary hotels I understand there are cost to setting this up what are the costs per hotel exactly tech text proposal quote access to the IETF network must be seriously attempted at at least one secondary hotel and should be attempted for at least one additional secondary hotel end quote additional text proposal quote the hotel page for the IETF meeting shall be updated promptly with IETF network access for that hotel end quote additional text proposal quote cost estimating for providing such hotel access in future meetings is to be tracked and made available end quote and comment okay one of the things that because this kind of proposal is exactly what I was worried about going down the path of before we deal with the more process logistical question which is I think that I\u0027m hearing multiple things first of all I\u0027m hearing it would be good to have some information as yet undetermined in the archival RFC series about how we do network I\u0027m hearing it would be good to have some information in a more dynamic form like a web page that could be updated with specifics that could be you and perhaps pieces of either or both would be input into the contracting that\u0027s all fine and an interesting discussion to have my two questions are I don\u0027t see that as plausibly in charter right now oh yeah I\u0027ve got the Charter on my screen I\u0027m reading it over this would be a new charter item as far as I can tell the the text that Shawn mentioned in the chat room if it\u0027s aimed at this document the Jordi\u0027s proposing okay that may be a different sort of thing if this is aimed as general requirements for venue selection that\u0027s a very different sort of thing and I\u0027m not clear that I want to entertain it as part of that I think we got out of a bunch of this kind of text in the venue selection document what I\u0027d like to hear from the room it sounds like there is general interest in this topic is this something that we want to ask the isg for a new charter item on that we want to work in this venue on or one of the possibilities is this is more specialized than this working group is probably set up to deal with maybe this is a different sort of venue that we need to discuss this in maybe this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:30",
    "text": "simply a job for the folks who have the greatest interest in this I\u0027m I\u0027d like to hear if folks think there needs to be a pointer to something like this in our current documents and therefore makes this more of a a charter item that we need to add to be to be honest I didn\u0027t read the Charter maybe a writ long time ago so maybe you\u0027re right but but it\u0027s also strange to me because it\u0027s part of the of the of the criteria for selecting the venue clearly Jim I believe that what we\u0027re mostly doing would be documenting an existing system existing an existing process I think that Geordi and I could work on as an individual submission I don\u0027t think that we need the whole working group and it certainly would go through through a overall IETF review but I don\u0027t think that we need the the whole working group involved but that\u0027s letters you don\u0027t sing it\u0027s easier to have a working group for it instead of trying to go to the general area existing practice you don\u0027t need a working group to document existing practice you put out an informational document the only thing you need to do at that point is just make sure that you have an area director who\u0027s willing to say yeah that\u0027s okay and or the IOC can put something out on its stream I don\u0027t know how it does that but I think that seems like a perfectly reasonable thing to do in this context without going through all the working group process Jim did you want to address this this point I just yeah it\u0027s useful that the ops ID is part of my team so he can help us through this process I love signing people up for things when they\u0027re not here only Jacobson meetings committee chairs so I would say that having this document and having a pointer to it like you said might be useful and I\u0027ll leave it to Jim to say whether whether it is or not but you know it might be one of those cases where you can have a host who declares that we you know we\u0027re sponsoring this meeting and we conform to the network requirements document without having to say exactly what that means so pointing to the document might be useful in that case because there might be places in the world I\u0027ll leave your imagination to say where think about where we\u0027re specifying exactly what that means is not helpful to the host thank you Cullen Jenks I think the group of people that care deeply about visa requirements are somewhat different than the group of people that care deeply about whether it\u0027s cat5e or cat6 and you know both documents are useful maybe leaving the NOC to document their process preferably a github might be you know or best left however the NOC wants to do it not you know not I think these are separate things right so I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:34",
    "text": "I go ahead Barry I asked Shawn whether we really needed the Micra for this but he hasn\u0027t answered so we\u0027ll put it Sean Leonard says I agree that I also don\u0027t know which document it should go in and whether it\u0027s in charter okay so I\u0027m understanding that this room may or may not be completely representative just want to get and you know how much I love hums but but actually a show of hands folks who think that they would I\u0027m not talking about the working group that they would be interested in working with Geordi and or Jim on this document other documents in this area are there folks in this room who are of that sort raise your hands now only a few okay well I guess I guess they\u0027re not the people from the knock is not here maybe a couple of data and again that goes to is is the working group the right venue to be working on this or maybe it\u0027s get together a different group of people to be working on it because for the working group to work on it I\u0027m pretty convinced we would have to do at least a simple recharter it wouldn\u0027t be a hard recharter but it would have to be getting the I ASG to approve this is another work item we are getting close to done so maybe that\u0027s not a big deal but I\u0027m also not seeing the general population of at least this room if I\u0027m part of the discussion let me let me have one point here if we evaluate the venue against the other document and it pass but it doesn\u0027t pass this part we don\u0027t have a venue so it makes sense from that perspective that it should be in the same page this is very not necessarily the this the document we already have can say that the the venue has to support our network requirements and we can just defer what those are to when this is done and then this doesn\u0027t also get in the way of getting the other document finished yeah I is this an ad comment or a mic comment no very quick process come and say I don\u0027t I just look quickly at the Charter I don\u0027t think you need to read charter you would need to Adam or maybe you need to add another milestone but maybe it also fits under the existing milestones but if you just need to add another milestone then it\u0027s just yeah the milestone doesn\u0027t have to go through iesg so your read of the Charter is you think we could include this if we wanted to yeah like my very quick read of the charters thank you okay watching Jim I just want to say that the I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:34",
    "text": "the original document of the meeting selection document has enough in there to say you need to make make sure there\u0027s an infrastructure capable of handling what we need if we\u0027re doing is projecting another document that describes in more detail from a more practical perspective things that we need to share with other with other entities things that need to go into contracts things like that I don\u0027t think that they need to be tight at the hip I think that we\u0027ve we\u0027ve already addressed it in the first by saying yes we\u0027ve got to make sure we address this okay then here\u0027s what I\u0027m gonna suggest now at least these folks in the room have been made aware of this I\u0027ll post as a summary of this discussion to the list a who wants to work on this with Jordi and is this a venue that you would want to use to work on this or would you rather do it offline as individual then those are the basic questions if having the infrastructure of the working group helps in some way and Marius saying we could squeeze it into the the Charter then that infrastructure can be used if the infrastructure is not going to help folks if it is just going to be an individual effort anyway and we\u0027re all going to be sitting around twiddling our thumbs and Charles and I are not going to be able to determine whether there\u0027s consensus for the document there\u0027s no point in doing it in the working group does that make sense to you absolutely and I just wanted to offer if you if you want to call yourself a design team you could be associated to a working group trade you don\u0027t have to you can also just be a design team and we can give you a separate mailing list if that\u0027s helpful okay so I\u0027ll put that to the list something and you can sort of run that discussion if you like Thanks all right thanks that was helpful any other business I don\u0027t believe so I think that\u0027s it any other business blue sheets should be going around who has the blue sheet the blue sheet is over there raise your hand if you need the blue sheet it\u0027ll start heading in this direction alright I think that is all please do sign the blue sheet and thank you yeah thanks "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:49",
    "text": "[Applause] "
  }
]