[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "Okay, it's one o'clock here in Vancouver. Welcome to the spring meeting. Thank you all for being here. I know it's Friday. I know it's been a long week Thank you for still hanging out with us Bruno is over there on the video Joe may not be able to make it today So please, if you're in the room, go ahead and scan the QR code that is somewhere now Please make sure to scan it only once so that we don't get this huge room again next time. It feels like, you know, we're not the big happy family or the small happy family that we are here in spring. And once again, if you want to see the slides, you of course can log into the medical client or maybe you want to move over to the left of the room where this is we are here in spring. And once again, if you want to see the slides, you of course can log into the medical client, or maybe you want to move over to the left of the room where the slides are okay let's start Brno, go ahead with the next slide so i know that is Friday and sometimes we kind of gloss over the note well. This is just a reminder of the policies that you, of course, already agreed to when you register for the ATF around conduct around intellectual property and around the harassment policies, please make sure that you familiar with the policies that are linked from there not just with this page, but with the policies When you are deciding to make contributions to the IETF. Next slide Next slide is just to focus a little bit more on some of the important things about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "the code of conduct and the expectations that we have to be old friends and to collaborate in an open way in the IETF. Next slide Some meeting tips if you need them at the spring of the week next slide The minutes are of course a reflection of what we do here in the working group Shuping, our secretary, is online and she's taking minutes. Please follow the link. You can also click on the media client and get to the same hedge stock page so that you can collaborate on the minutes. Check specially if you say something, if you have comments that the comments are reflected properly, that your name is spelled right you know all those things so please go online and help us all with the minutes Next slide So we've had some document activity since last time In here we're showing three drafts that have moved. The first one on the path to you for the ESR policy was adopted by the working group I know there was already a working group document that draft IETF spring document posted a couple days ago That is not here. We were waiting for this when we did this slide at the beginning of the week. There is an ongoing adoption call for the SRMP of the here. We were waiting for this when we did the slide at the beginning of the week. There is an ongoing adoption call for the SRV6 and PLS Interworking Draft that has gotten some some traffic on the list and this is going to be open until August 1st. You'll notice that we did that on purpose, not ending the call during the meeting because we know that everyone's busy during the meeting So on purpose, we extended that a little bit longer than the next notice that we did that on purpose not ending the call during the meeting because we know that everyone's busy during the meeting so on purpose we extended that a little bit longer than the normal two weeks And in other news that I'm sure all of you know, we have submitted the SR"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "compression draft to the ASG for publication Next slide This is the list of the approved working group documents They're listed there in order of when they were last updated So there are a couple at the bottom that are expired right, because they were updated last. Please, if you're the author of those drafts, please, you know, keep them alive so that we know there's still interest in them moving along the work here You also notice that the working group last call indication of the last column there of them being in the work group last call Q, not all the document are, and it's not depending on where if they're older or newer or anything like that We have been mostly working under the mode where we wait for the authors to ask for working at the last call In a couple of slides, we're going to start reviewing a proposal for an updated charter And with that update, we're going to change some of the ways of how we do the management of work work. So we're going to pay a little bit more attention and ask for your collaborator because we're a working group where we're not just chairs All of us have to be in this together to make sure the documents that get to the stage of work with last call are ready for working Thank you last call and not that we start working on them when we Next slide. This is the adoption queue Drew, did you have a question? Drouf, can we go to previous slide just on list of the documents? Only wanted to highlight the working group, there are work especially which use SR Policy Yank and currently the document, though it got an update this time there are still pending issues that we have told the author"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "for a while right now the document is also not compiling, so it's creating errors for all the other models which are augmenting it. So just a request to the authors to please keep this in track and updated. Thank you thank you uh yeah both uh the Yang drafts in there had actually been expired a few months ago, so it's good that we have renewed them because there's some dependencies on them Next slide So this is the list of the adoption queue This is not an order. You can go check the way not an order. You can go check the wiki, but just so that you know that this is what the adoption queue looks like And, you know, similar to what I said about working with last calls, we're going to want to, you know, have a tighter tighter I don't want to say control but you know have a tighter hold on the drafts that are being adopted because again we want the working group to participate and we need to do this as a working group. Next slide Okay, we're going to now talk about the spring rechartering. I'm actually going to stand up there because I can't sit and talk at the same time Okay Thanks. Is this one? Yeah Okay. So, um the spring charter was last revised six years ago That's a long time. And if you look at the, milestones that we've been revising in the last few weeks many of them are already taking over by events, right? We calculated that we'll be done with the work about three years ago But we still have some milestones that we haven't finished"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "And so it's time to take a look at this. The other reason we're taking a look at the charter is because the SR26 ops working group was chartered they met for the first time this week I hope that all of you were there And we had to make some changes to our charter to make sure that it didn't say that we were the home of SRV6 operations we sent the charter to the list I'm very disappointed that no one's said anything. I did a couple of comments Unicast, but no one said anything So what I'm assuming is that you're all happy with the charter. And, you know, as I said before, we need this to be a working room, right? If there's no working, group, it's no one who goes to the Charter, then maybe we need no room next time. And we can just go home and not do this anymore For those of you came in late, I don't mean to shame you or anything but it might be good if you sit on this side where you can see the slide Just, you know, Bruno's on the other side so that's also a good view, so you can stay there if you want okay uh please take a look at the charter uh on the list if you have common We're going to spend some time here today to do this bruno next slide So, these first two paragraphs of the charter are basically the same as the ones before. The only thing that changed in the first paragraph is what is highlighted on the underlined there, that it specifically says that this is a form for discussion of SR and PLS network operations. Before, we also highlighted that we did just SR operations, but now that SRV6 ops is somewhere else then you know we just kind of making sure that that that is what it says The second paragraph talks about the fact that we need or want to avoid modifications to existing data planes and that any work on data plane or control plane"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "is going to happen on the working groups that own that right when we did the SRH, it was on a six-man, even though it was for string, it was done there. Just like all the IGP extensions are done in LSR, BGP, etc Next slide If you have any comments or questions as we go through this, please get up and talk about it done in LSR, VGP, etc. Next slide. If you have any comments or questions as we go through this, please get up and talk about this next paragraph is a summary in general of what the work group does. Procedures that allow a note to steer path through and as our policy The text is very similar from before. I put the diff there We just did some editorial changes No big deal, I think. But yeah, just take a look Thank you Darlika Sisco, since you made editorial change what is a spring node? Because that's not something that's defined Do you mean segment routing node? Perhaps Yes what you mean? It says, however spring nodes. Yes so I'm, I'll write that down down and I'll look at it. Yes we need to be clear. Okay, next slide Antoine is a a... Yeah, Antoine. Yeah, Antoine might want to go back around. Yeah, it's on the first slide Name... Antoine Chrysanco, Huawei charter, first slide, you mentioned that SRM-PLS operations are still in the scope of the group Wouldn't it be simple to delegate this to the SRV6 of the group and like SIR? Ops groups, so they also tackled the SRMPL options and there is an ops group for anything"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "in the Core's Net Protocol Species specification that is done in spring so I'm going to say that two things. One is that boat all sail because we already chartered SRV6 ops. And the other one is that that is, of course, way above my pay grade, and I'm sure Jim is online, RAD the other one is that that is of course way above my pay grade and I'm sure Jim is online or AD and he's going to take notes and think about that Thanks. Okay, next slide Okay, so here, we did a little bit of scoping work. It says, Segment routing works within a trusted domain that requires strict and for a at the borders. Trusted domain is defined in 8402, but also says that some deployments involve multiple domains, and that document that deal with multiple SR domains will need to have risk analysis and use mechanisms to make sure that the segment list is provided by an authorized entity and that it has not been modified or transferred. That is very similar to what the text that was there before, again some editorial changes The second paragraph, if you can see the lift over there, we eliminated completely All that second paragraph says is as a customer area, in the routing area, and not just in the routing area, but in the whole ATF, we care about security, and we're going to put security considerations in every draft We don't have to put that in the charter because that is a mandate of the IETF, right? Every draft has to have security so it's kind of redundant to put it in there. So we decide to take that out because it didn't really add anything to the scoping or to the action operation of the working room Comments okay good next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "The bottom part of this next slide, which is the last part, of the charter, is who we're going to coordinate with I think SFC was on the list before that we're part of the charter, is who we're going to coordinate with. I think SFC was on the list before, that working group is closed, so we took it out, we added SROC ops, and cleaned a little bit, and then put the givis in here, but we cleaned a little bit just so that we were consistent and what we were saying, LSR on ID LSR on, IDR on, you know, those types of things The top part, the one that's highlighted and under a little bit just so that we were consistent in what we were saying, you know, LSR on, IDR on, you know, those such things. The top part, the one that's highlighted and underlined, that is, I think, the most important change to the Charter. In the current Charter, we have a list of work items As I mentioned, when we did this charter six years ago, we should have finished those work items about three years ago, right? But we didn't. So what we want to do now, is, as it says there, we're going to manage the working group and the specific work items based on working group input and consultation with the AD What that means is that we are not going to list specific items on the charter, but we're going to manage the milestones more strictly I showed the working group documents before and the adoption queue before. That means that we're going to do it the milestones more strictly. I showed the working group documents before and the adoption queue before. That means that we're going to manage that process a little bit more strictly now We're going to put milestones in the data transition when documents become working group documents not when we come up with ADS, right? Because at that point, we know the working group is committed to do it something and we can do something in there We will figure out what that process looks like. And of course, consult with the working group or let you know what we're going to do and we'll go from there so what that really means is what I mentioned before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "we need more working group interaction to make sure that what we're working on is what the working group is committed to do and deliver Tom, or Drew, I think you're first I think it's just a slight mistake, but PC is missing. It was there before, but me what is missing? Is she? Oh you didn't put it in the second line Oh, got it. It's fine. And second question that I had was with respect to the milestone. So when we are saying that according to the milestones agreed, so any thoughts on? how would we come into an agreement on this? Because I'm worried that every author would say, mine is the most important one So what's the thought on how do we agree on the order of importance? Right. So well, two things. One, as I just said, I think what we're going to want to do is put the final milestone when we adopt something, right? So that means that the working group agrees that this is something about it haven't figured out yet and we want to, you know, think about this a little bit, is how we're going to manage the market milestones. If any of you were at the all this patch, Working Group on Monday, there was a proposal there about management of the milestones that we actually can do today But basically, you know, milestones, normally you put dates to it. And of course, sometimes we look really bad because we should have completed the work three years ago and we haven't done it. And or even worse, we didn't update the milestones for the last three or four years. With work that we actually did finish. So that's one option another option is that we don't need to necessarily list dates but we can list priorities now those don't have to be priorities and in draft A is the absolute most priority of the working group It may be, and this is something we need to read on as a working group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "it may be a Q-type list, right? You know, there's the first one. We're going to try and work on that one first, and then we go to the second one, and if there's any change in the ordering, then we need to agree as a working group to do that Which agreement as a working group to me means that we are committed to reviewing they are committed to making comments they are committed to participating Not that we're just saying, yes, I like that draft, but that we're actually going to work on that Tom Hello, tom hill from BT. If you may go back a slide, sorry it took me a little while to grok the changes So, no proposed charter three. Yeah, that one There's a lot of change in here. There's obviously a lot of text that's been taking out I think in the kind of gutting of this, I can see where there is modernization to this, which is completely appropriate, but also I'm kind of concerned that we've removed the word security entirely and I think that that's for posterity sake quite a mistake, especially when we have a draft going through the way working group process of called Security Consideration I think that's really important that we make sure that that word is in there It is important. Furthermore, the word untrusted is not in there And I think it's a mistake to take that out as well. So as much as I'm relatively happy with the slight expanding of scope and slight changes in here, I think you may have cut this down a little bit too far Okay, please, if you have text in mind so as I said, the second paragraph was one to talk about security and we took it out because yeah that's should be table stakes for everything If you have wording that we should add, we're happy to take a look at that that One thing that I want to make sure is that we use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "terms that are defined. So there is a definition of a trusted domain. I'm assuming that the inverse of that is an untrusted domain or an untrusted note or whatever you meant by untrusted. I don't think it hurts us to, I think security is quite well defined but I don't think it hurts us to actually make specific reference to untrust And the concern that I have is that sometimes when we find ourselves with contentious work, someone points at very literal text in the charter and says, well, it's not there so we're not doing it. Right. So all I'm saying, I'm not disagree with you, all I'm saying is that if we're going to use the word untrusted, we need to make sure that we know what it means. So that in the future, the same thing doesn't happen where I point to the chart to say, well, but it's just untrusted according to my definition And it's not your definition. We have a history here of arguing over a very strange, ambiguous language and I don't want to invite more of that in the future. So even though untrust is well defined already as being the opposite of trusted I think it's explicitly, it's important to it explicitly mention it. Okay yes, I will make a point to try and look at proposing some text. Perfect Along with Tom, please, everyone else go look at the charter on the email because we want the confirmation there, of course slide else, go look at the charter on the email because we want the confirmation there, of course. Next slide. Marrakesh is waiting On the next slide, where there is list of working groups I know it's not an exhaustive list of working groups that we work with, but we have been working with IPPM working group for the lot of PM staff so I wonder if you should include the IPPN working group here sure please reply to the list Yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "So, you know, personally, we can include whatever we want. There's no binding contract between working groups that we need to work together. So yes, we include everything Please, if you think there's something missing, we can add it to the list. Fix that thing with the PCE that needs to go to the next line and then we'll make at least roofhead happy with that. Okay, anyone? else? okay so Tom is going to propose some text. We, the chairs are going to talk about how that mechanism of managing the milestones is going to work and let you know what we're thinking. And everyone has the homework to go to the list Don't do that now because we have very exciting number of presentations but everyone has the homework to go to the list and comment on the charter Yes? can I at least get someone to nod? and say yes? Okay, thank you Okay, so this is the agenda that we have today. As always, we have a lot of presentations. We're going to start with the security considerations draft Luis is going to talk about this Roderiband this is Luis. I will present the personal security considerations on behalf of my coalfos and also on behalf of Nick. I couldn't make it here. Next please So just a recap where we are how we are advancing the draft how we are evolving the draft. So in version 02, how we are advancing the draft how we are evolving the draft so in version zero two that is the latest available we have had the reference to the RFCs that are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "are covering, let's say, in the security assessment we also have moved some content to two specific sections on impact and attacks. Before that, was somehow diluted the content in the documents so we have established these new sections for making the content much more clear. Also, we have other a description on the hash message of authentication code which is for the securitization of the SRH and for sure editorial fixing that this is a continuous effort for making the document better from the perspective of the readers. Next please so for the for the subsequent version, even though we already have created the scope, the scope is just a the list of addresses I commented before So the idea would be to be a little bit more verbose on the description of the scope So that could be more, more evident and more clear what is the scope of the document, what are the the the yeah basically the the context of the document and the perimeter of the document Then also we are reworking on the Threat Model section. There are some discussions between the co-authors from the design team what should be the approach The HMIC is something that we already have covered and also we will be working on adjusting the middle box filter and issue section to reflect the comments received so far. Next please so we are yet working on on the field model as mentioned and this is this is this so we need to clarify even better among us where we'll be the proper approach. We are looking for more input to the group. We will see later on at the at the end of the deck that we have the public repo there So it would be Perfect if it is can jump on that and propose pull requests and whatever other comment that you consider relevant for it. And regarding adoption, we saw that the is in the potential adoption queue So, yeah, we are working for that and we would like to jump"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "consider relevant for it. And regarding adoption, we saw that there is in the potential adoption queue. So, yeah, we are working for that and we would like to, the document become adopted as soon as a statement Next, please open questions we we we would like to the document become adopted as soon as a state. Next, please. Open questions. There was some traffic on the mailing list about the microtap segment topics, so this is something that maybe could be of interest to be covered. So this is an open question for the working group if we need to do so And yeah, also what else? So what other topic? the working group considers relevant to be covered by the document so in such a way that we can focus on on that topic so please yeah state your interest in the mailing list and so we can go through that So Albert, do you have a question? yeah thanks i heard of myself thank you two reasons one is if you guys remember, this working group, or this document, the recent we're doing it is because we got a specific request from the IES sheet and the request specifically was to look at security considerations in segment routing and it was defined whereas it is defined So what that means is the existing RRCs armacies. So I would say that, you know, addressing security in upcoming things is you know, out of scope for this document. The other thing that I want to say is that we do plan to soon call for a lot other thing that I want to say is that we do plan to soon call for adoption of this document, right? This, we, I think all agree security is important and because it's a commitment to the ASG, you want to move this as fast as we can Thanks. Thank you Hey, hey, me again, sorry So there's a couple of I should probably say actually, for the record, tom hill beta I'm quite impressed with the rewrite. So in Brisbane, I was a little bit, I thought this was a little bit lacking, but actually I'm quite impressed with the rewrite. There's a lot of extra"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "work that's gone into this so thank you very much for doing that that's great great section 7.1.2 has a typo in it Lurer addresses. You might have seen that already. The other thing is doesn't mention is draft IFTF six man six SIDS, Suresh's draft on obtaining a prefix for SIDS reserved one. I think it would be well worth making a mention of that because I think that's important because, I mean, leave from that point onwards into Section 8, either Section 8.1 or maybe an unreported, maybe an unwritten as yet section 8.3 that doesn't quite exactly It doesn't really mention anything about the fact that your source cids that you're either said the cid prefix that you're using is completely unstandardized right there's this kind of one suggestion that says from one ISP well we just use GUA, another one says we'll just use you that way that's a real problem that exists within the you know, a lot of the scenarios that you've defined here particularly, you know, of leaking things out of the trusted domain. So I think it'd be well worth expanding either 8.1 or writing 8.3 to cover that very specific problem and it does refer obviously back to drafts IETF six-man-sids And I think you've mentioned it elsewhere in the door document where you've mentioned that some of the SID compression mechanisms do not use an SRH at all. And I think Section 8 should probably cover that in more detail as well You know, the problem that exists there with not being able to distinguish these things from an IPV6 packet I think that so broadly this is great work, but I think Section 8 needs bolstering quite substantially No, good. Thank you for the feedback. I will do my best to try and support some text as well at some point, I promise. It would be wonderful I'll try. Thanks. Thank you, Tom. Thank you Hello?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Nan Gong from Huawei Technology I have a quick look at the draft and by default, SRI6 is deployed within a limited domain or trust the domain. And it's also mentioned in the trust model section, right? And I wonder, trust the domain is a sum person or a solution I mean, we we, uh, uh, in trust the domain is a solution to solve the SRL security problem or is just a sample of our analysis scenarios I couldn't get the latest point So you would mention if the trust domain is the same scenario for being deployed, yes, but what else do you mention? I couldn't get it. Okay I can go a call comment here. I mean, suppose deploying SRW6 in trust domain is a solution maybe we can move the descriptions about this trust domain deployment request to the mitigation section right? Or suppose it is a sample share, it's our target analysis case, maybe some of the attacks or threats are not in the scope of the analysis. Yes, that's my comment No, thanks for the comment. We will analyze that. Thank you the analysis, yes, that's my comment. No, thanks for the comment, we will analyze that, yeah, thank you. So, yeah, coming back to the We have a couple more people on the queue, Jim. Oh, sorry sorry yeah real real quick one and actually as I can see Drew actually mentioned it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "in the chat now, but it might be useful or just a suggestion that you might want to run this past SRV6 ops as well. Just send them, you know, a point to the link. I suspect everybody that attends that also attends spring but it wouldn't hurt you might get more more in input know a pointer to a link i suspect everybody that attends that also attends spring but it wouldn't hurt you might get more more input also make a point of copying i sort of six ops on adoption when we get there Thank you. Thanks Jim, and Drew as well for that. So I'm just a thumbs point, right, yes, like we are very close to having an RFC number for this, but the block is already ready, so you can just talk about the block that's been allocated for it. And I have the number in my head. It's not published yet, but I think we are ready to add the stuff to the prefix. And to Nance point the the idea I is, right, like if you're in a trusted domain, some of these don't apply, but this is really a checklist of things you need to check for. So I don't think there's anything specific to say like this doesn't apply for trusted domains it's just for somebody to evaluate and say whether it applies or not right like maybe that could be a separate document that somebody writes like probably the operator's right decided, hey, we looked at these things and in our kind of deployments, these things don't matter to us because like, you know, we are in a single administrative domain I think that could be a separate thing, but I really don't want to call out each thing separately here, whether it's applicable to trust it or not. Thank you. Thank you for the command. So, yeah the final slide I think is this one, so we are here showing where is the reference you. Thank you for the comment. So yeah, the final slide I think is this one. So we are here showing where is the repos. So yeah, feel free to jump in and propose whatever thing that you would like to consider to be considered And I think that that's all Yeah, it's just a quick reminder It's great if you want to go on the GitHub and do comments there, please remember that the list the main list is the authority source of anything. So if you're going to discuss"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "anything, please find a way of discussing it on the list as well Thank you. Thank you Luis Louise So now we're going to move forward to RAD Yes Hello everyone, I'm Zen from the TE. Today I will present the validity of ESA policy can the path on behalf of all the co-author Next, please Yes, this is the introduction ESR policy architecture are specified in Abyss obviously, 9-256 As a policy conference is one or more county parts of which a given time one and only one may be active each CP in turn may have one or more seat list of which one or more may be active When multiple seed lists are active, then traffic is load balance over them. However, a CP is valid at least once seed list is active This kind of path was related criteria can't meet the needs of some scenarios. This document defines the new validity culture contradictory parameters based on FC 9-2 For the second list, invalidation rules, refer to FSI 9 to 5 and draft new spray as a policy flexible path selections This document doesn't change the segment list invalidation rules. Next, please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "This is a motivational The Kennedy Pass validity criteria defined in Afestine 2 to five six can meet the needs of the following scenarios The ISR policy has two can't pass CP1 and the CP2 CP1 is the active county pass and segment list SL1 and SL1 of a country path active catapath and segment list, SL1 and SL2, offer CP1, are in store I installs, as forwarding, installation of ASA policy POL1 instatiation of ESA policy, as a policy POL1, the CP1 carries a total of 200 meg-back MB of traffic. Within, within POL1, the flow base Hashi 08, each SL with a research 50% That is, each SIL carry one mb of traffic And this time, for 1.1 of the segment list is invalid the remaining segment list, can't carry 200 mb of traffic However, based on, I've seen 9-256, the Cp is still active. Next, please This is four instances. We define the following vulnerability parameters and the quantity paths to control the valid judgment of KandiPaths The first parameters is valid as a outcome 8-bit value with indicates the minimal number of valid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "segmented list, and the active county pass There indicates no requirement for SL quality 0XFF indicates that the candidate path is considered valid only if all the segmental list are valid. The second parameters is valid as well weight 32-bit value which indicates the minimal value of sum of weights of the value segment list and the active county pass there indicates no requirement for weight zero the active county pass. There indicates no requirement for weight, 0X, F, F, F, F, F, in the case, that the county pass is considered valid only if all the segmentalists are valid Contipath is considered valid only if both validity counteneters are satisfied. Next please There are some more updates since last preditations based on Joe comments. We clarified the second list, invalidation rules refer to opposite 9256 and dropped new spray as a policy flexible path selection based on simus semius comments, which changed the value SL quality quality to valid ICAL quality to valid ICAL which changed valid SL quality to valid SL count. Sorry, zero, zero was a type here, quality, yeah which is closer to common terms And we add issue, curtain, semi- here, quality, which is closer to common terms. And we add Yishun, Kitten, Samuel, and Rafa as co-authors. Next please. Comments welcome. And we think that solution is simple, useful, and a study So we would like to call for adoption"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "thank you Any comments or questions? Before we can consider the document for adoption, we need you to cut the number of authors in the front page Currently, I counted seven. We need five or less Comments, questions? suggestions volunteers to review Maybe you will have discussed most of the list So we have solved all the questions in this world version. Maybe it is stable Okay, so I guess we're going to move forward. Thanks. Thank you Uh, now have Yuan or Yi on the service six interlayer network programming Thank you, Mr. Chairman I will present for this contribution I'm Liu Yan from China Mobile and the authors of the characters authors are from ChinaMobile, Huawei, and the present for this contribution. I'm liuyan han from ChinaMobile and the authors, the current authors are from ChinaMobile, Huawei and ZTE. Next slide please Next please Thank you. First, we introduce the background for this draft The operators usually have a market multi-layered network, including the layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "three, and also include the option network, and maybe include the layer two networks The cross-layered network planning and optimization is expanded for better efficiency and resiliency S-Y6 enabled network programming by encoding network instructions in IPV6 packet handler, but currently it's only the network instructions related to IP layer are defined The SRV6 network programming concept can be further extended for interlayer network integration For example, in the layer two and optical layer in the networks So this document describes the typical use cases of interlayer network integration and proposed SOR6-based mechanisms for interlayer networks programming Next, please We think the user for inter-layer networks programming. Next, please. We six use cases of inter-layer network programming at least include the first six case is IP and optical network integration, redundant optical paths currently may not be fully used by IP layer. The optical passes may exist between non-adjacent IP nodes. That's not with visible in the layer 3 topology So we can use the SRV6 extension for the IP and optical integration The next use case is IP and MTN, the Metro Transport Network into layer integration The MTN technology and architecture has been divided in ITOT recommendations MTN nodes can support both"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "POP forwarding and IMTB architecture has been divided in ITOT recommendations. MTN nodes can support both POOP IP-Fording and MTNP-P cross-connect The MTN paths can be sent up between two remote MTN nodes So traffic can be current user IPPARs, MTN parts, or the combination of IP and IMT PARs be carried to use IP parts, MTN parts, or the combination of IP and MTN part segment. So we can use the SRV6 extension to integrate the IP and IMT network Next, please In this draft version, we give two new SRV6 end point behaviors The first is an endpoint XU, a variant of end dot X The next is end docs BXC a variant of S-I-Wing, since Biden since We think the functionality in the data plan for the two new SRIVASC end-point behaviors are similar Both of the behaviors can enable the programming of internet T-Parses. Each option, has different implementations on the management plan and control plan functions The operators may choose either of them that best suits their use cases and networks. The management and control plan exists will be specified in separate documents. They are not included in the draft. Next, please We have a question. We have someone on the Q session wait, okay, he was going to wait until the end Go ahead. Oh, thank you The option one is SRAC thinks and he's going to wait until the end. Go ahead. Oh, thank you. The option one is srubrithing n.xu behavior It's a variant of the .ex behavior. The same instance of this behavior"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "is associated with an honorary interface which connects to the remote mode where underlay links or connection So the end presenting is replaced to send the packets through one of the underlines associated with the underline interface. Next, please The option 2 is SR6 and dot behavior This behavior is a variant of the SRV6 and behavior. The sitting instance of this behavior is associated with the underlying tunnel. For example, the layer one or the two tunnels The end percent is replaced to forward the packet to the new destination where under the tunnel Optionally, this behavior may require to carry additional information, for example, by the argument for its processing. The high part of argument for example, by the argument for its processing. The high part of the document may be used to encode the channel type and the lower part may be used to carry the channel ID And the underlying tunnel is uniquely identified by the tunnel type and channel ID. Next please This light will list the updates since last presentation The most important update is in this version, we merge the end slide will list the updates since last presentation. The most important update is in this version. We merge the end.bxc behavior divided in another draft and we merge the two options in this draft And next, we elaborate the reason of introduce new behavior rather than using existing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "dot-x behavior Since the underlying connections can be unique unidirection, which doesn't meet the bi-direction check for the functional layer three and all operators may want this underlay connection being invisible in layer 3 three topologies so they can only be used by a controller for cross-layer traffic engineering And the endpoints of the underlayer connections may reside in different areas or different domains, which makes the established or layer three end-to-end tunnel difficult And we also clarify the possible mechanism of Obtale II two information required for packet in cap solution, for example, to use a standard only cache Next, please So we think this document has addressed all the received comments and since now, multi-layer of networks is common in the real networks, operators have interest to the deploy as we think next for interlayer integration, and we also hope to apply for WG adoption for this draft. Thank you Thank you We have some questions to the queue session Sasha Weinstein, Reuben, I see, I I want to ask a question, first of all Suppose, as the draft says, that I have an underlie path between two ip nodes suppose that the first of this, one of these IP nodes the upstream IP node, has advertised"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "one of these new NSAID was one of these behaviors, received a packet in which they says an SID was one of these behaviors, received a packet in which this SID is the top SID strips it because it's a variation of N-X and sends it by the underlay. My question is how should the node at the remote end of this underlying the underlay. My question is, how should the node at the remote end of this underlay link know what to do with the IPV6 packet it has received? received? because underlay links are not how should it know indeed that it deals with an IPV6 packet if it receives? it directly from the underlay? It seems that this is if, from my point of view, this means that in order to be able to do that, the remote nodes should identify associate some IPV6 capable interface with a this underlay. And what if you really do? that, then you may have a if both endpoints, IPV6 capable IPV six several interfaces then I think you don't need any space behaviors. You need the normal and X behavior and that's it it Thank you for the comments Maybe we can go to the use case slide I think the slide two or slide three. We have two yes, this slide. We can see that if we have the optical network and the metro transport network For the underlying network, the nodes also have the processing ability of the layer 3 in 8"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "its client size. So it, for example, for the MT node, it can receive the end behavior, the same from its increase interface Then it can use this seat to indicate which empty parts it can slide for this end-to-end seat So it can slide the underlay parts automatically by the indication of the seed list So we think it brings much, bring many advantages for the end-to-end programming and the underlie passes can be selected and visible in the control plane Thank you I'm not sure I have captured all you have said but again, what I say is what my point is that maybe we describe this on the main list a little bit better thank you we can be discuss it in the mail list first. I presented my point Let's take the truth at least. Okay can't uh if we could go to slide number seven and this is also what I think Sasha was saying the statement here that end-deck seven, and this is also what I think Sasha was saying, the statement here that N dot X is only for L3 is not actually accurate as listed on this slide N.x, that same section of RFC 8986 says that we can allocate it for L2 bundle members, which is kind of similar to, we can think of it like sub subchannels under L3 interface So that's an L2 bundle member This is optical subchannel. There is a lot of similar And I guess I'm thinking this is probably the point that Sasha was making as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "So in that case, I agree with him The second point is I'm glad to see the two drafts merging and now we have two variants. One is the n.xu and the other is the binding seed variant. It would be good if and the draft is not very clear on when we need the binding scene and when we need the N dot X exit. So feedback to the authors if you could consider coming up with one of them not two, which both of them could take arguments and that may be, it's just a suggestion. Thank you Thanks, good night you. Yeah. Just a quick response to Sasha and Kady Cadden's comments. I think basically the Just a quick response to Sasha and Cadden's comments. I think basically in the definition of this, obviously, 1896, the end N-DOTX is for the layer three adjacency, I think that is the definition there. And another thing is, I is for the layer three adjacency, I think that is the definition there. And another thing is, as I mentioned here, if we want to use the N-D-O for non-IP layer and bi-direct, unidireional links that may, behavior will be different from the four layer three, because for later three, you need a bi-directional chat for a link to be visible and can be used for package forwarding, right? But for this we want to do some traffic engineering for specific kind of traffic so that is some difference between this and the normal end-or-ax behavior And another response to Sasha's comment is that actually we think there's two sides of the end point they don't need to this link, this interface does not need to be later three enabled because they can, as long as the can have this agreed encapsulation they can you can build a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "transport channel, no matter it's OTN or maybe the MTN, it's just you can forward a packet to the other side, then it will be processed properly. So this, I think the is possible to avoid building a layers three adjacency between these two kind of nodes because there's some challenge in some scenarios Hi Lujan. tom hill from BT I think I understand the draft and the presentation proposal, and I think in a requirement, a prerequisite for this to work there has to be a some form of layer three connectivity between your IP routers and your MTN routers or switches however they're described, such that you can actually communicate across that boundary Is that correct? I think I may, if we divide this behaviour, it may have some requirements for the MTN nodes yes. But since now, the MTN road and IP routers are in different ways list in the different areas or domains during the current as we think behaviors it can not enable the end-to-end programming now yeah right okay so i mean in most cases that I'm aware of, we don't tend to connect these things together on purpose and such that they can't talk to one another and they certainly can't tell each other one cases that I'm aware of, we don't tend to connect these things together on purpose and such that they can't talk to one another and they certainly can't tell each other what to do so ultimately I feel as if there is a very broad title for this draft when it's actually quite a limited set of circumstances, whether it can actually work work Since now some survey series is required a very strict requirement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "for example, in the letter C or in the bandwidth. So if it they require the low letter C, we hope to choose better underlay passes for the services. For example, to choose a better optical connection or better MTN connections This is in China Mobile, we have a long distance between, for example, to data centers. So it must to cross different domains The IP rotors is also under the IP networks. It has an optical networks or another MTN networks So we hope to choose a better path for that. I understand what you're attempting to do Thank you. What I'm trying to get at is that there is no trust between an optical network and an IP network. And this proposal, I think, implicitly requires trust between those two networks And I don't think that exists in many situations, none that I'm aware of So where we have ODUK or DWM options here I would hasten to add I don't think the vast majority of those would work in this instance This is a question really about scope of the draft and whether or not. Yeah, I understand I understand. I mean something that doesn't exist in a lot of places But maybe we can use a programming on the super controller. The controller can see all the different domain networks and to give the program yes an out of an out-of-band controller, that might be possible completely, but that wouldn't be a net different domain networks and to give the well yes an out-of-band controller that might be possible completely but that wouldn't be a network programming job that would be a PCE job or something similar. Anyway, thank you for the clarification Thank you Right. I'm then. I'm Zan would be a PCE job or something similar. Anyway, thank you for the clarification. Thank you. I'm Zan, Barmar, quickly reply to team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "Yes, the two domain network are open belong to the same operators and the channel mobile has the clear requirement and our company has in play implemented aid. And the channel mobile has the successful complete this function maybe we can take it offline to photo details Right, yeah, I'll just clarify that even if we own both of the networks, the optical and the IP we still don't trust each other which is usually done on purpose, right? But it's a zero-trust architecture. You second you IP, we still don't trust each other, which is usually done on purpose, right, but it's a zero trust architecture. You segregate your networks on purpose to make sure that they can't affect each other. So I feel as if that's a very common deployment certainly in my end of the world anyway Thank you. Yeah Okay. Great. Thank you We are going to move on jeffrey haas going to talk about the microtel segment Thank you Bruno, we're still seeing Old slides We're seeing the wrong slides actually Yep, okay, so on to present some updates to this micro-"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "tap segment draft on behalf of my co-authors Next slide, please A quick background refresh. The micro taps said is to instruct the node to make a copy of a packet. Send a copy to a particular destination, and then for the original package to its original destination By strategic placing one or more microtapsing seats within a seed list, we can do the traffic tapping at target points within NAN network without a need to configure or unconfigure firewalls on those tapping nodes to start or stop the tapping of this traffic. Here we achieved the micro control so that's why we use the micro tap there It does not mean, it's not related to them SRV6 microcy. Next The example here is that if you look at the picture on the right side, the client A is sending a blue packet to the server B goes through router A B, and C. The router A inserts segment list where it has purple, green, and yellow C's That purple C, seed is the router B's note seed and the green seed is a green seed is an when the router bee gets that packet, it will make a do that tapping. Next slide, please So the changes in the latest revision are basically two major changes. Why is that the optimization were introduced in the case of SRV6, and we also added support of tapping by a monitor node itself. Next slide, please So for the SRV6 model"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "operation we extend this GID and LID and LID that was introduced in the concepts that was introduced in the compressed seed specification Now, the monitor nodes that is attached to the monitor it will allocate the ID from the global ID blog and advertise it. The semantics of that is basically microtaping to the advertising monitor node We refer to this ID as a tap to the advertising monitor node. We refer to this ID as a tapping ID, and this tapping ID can be used as either a compressive seat or as a functional base of a full seat Next slide So the specific signaling operations are trying to explain it here in two slides. The monitor node, which in the previous picture, where it is the router D that is attached to the monitor The advertise end seat, with the N-tap behavior Using that load block, locator nodes, functional base and argument-based structure where we use the functional bits to encode the typing ID that we talked about earlier After it advertised that, it installs a corresponding IPV route. So that's when a tapping note send a copy of the package and when the copy arrived on this monitor node, you will send that copy to the monitor For example,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "Router D, that has the locator 00d0 it allocates a TID from the global ID block 1000 for the typing process So it will edit advertise that NC using that structure and install the corresponding route LB, colon 00D0, and 1,000. And so that's when it gets the tapped packet, it will forward the packet to the monitor That's the monitor nodes and the tapping node, if a node is capable of doing tapping, it will set a new T-flag bit in its location TLV, indicating that it is capable of doing the tapping for packets received with this particular locator And also for each locator, it advertises with that tree flag and for TID that it received from a monitor node it installed a routes to do the tapping. For example, node B it has locator 00B0B0 and it received a tapping ID 1000 from the node monitor node D So the node B will install LB colon 0-0-0-1,000 install their route to do the tapping Next slide, please And when Ingress router, Ingress note receives, the same advertisement, for example, the N-Seed from a monitor node D with 0-0, 00, colon, 00-D-0-1,000 with the N-TAP behavior, and B's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "locator, LB-0B-0B0 that has a T-flux set, then the Ingress nodes knows that B is capable of tapping. And if the ingress, wants B to do the tapping then it will use LB colon 0 00B0 1000 to install node B to do the tapping to note B. This works for both faucet and nexus tapping to node D. This works for both full seed and the next C seed flavor of the compressed seed and that's because longest prefix match on the combined LB colonel 00-1,000 routes In the case of the C seed, the 0B0, and 1,000 routes, routes. In the case of the c-sid, the 0-0-1,000, they are all compressed seeds Next slide, please Jeffrey, we have two and a half minutes three slides, and four questions. Yeah, okay yeah. So another thing we add is the tapping by monitor nodes So far, what we have talked about is that basically the tapping node and monitor nodes are different. There could be a case that the monitor nodes may be on the normal folding paths and you may need to do it tap to its own logo monitor What we described earlier will now enough for this For that, we introduce separate local ID block, TID and for the local tapping purposes. I'm going to skip the details here It's in the slides and in the in the draft Next slide please. So summary here we extend the compresses give, leave concepts to the functional space"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "of full seats and the monitor nodes advertise global typing ID and advertise in the functional parts of the n-tap seat It installs of local forwarding routes to send tapped packets to its monitor And the tapping nodes combine the received, gifted with its own locator and install a local folding route to do the tapping. The ingress nodes does similar things, but use that resulting and either full seed or a series of compresses to instruct the tapping. And also we introduced this LEB tapping ID so that the monitor can tell others that if you want me to do the tapping, you need to use this one Next slide So we continue to seek So I'm just going to, we have 11 seconds, Greg Make it quick. Okay. So this might be this might be applied arbitrary to random pack so in your opinion how that might uh impact is ECMP that uses their header information to generate entropy? ECMP, in the SRAV case, ECNP hashing, and I think it's based on that flow label, right? It's recommended There is no requirements for that. Okay I, in SRB6 case, I don't see how this will impact the hashing. In the MPOS,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "case, indeed, if you're hashing based on the label stack, you may have an issue there But as for SRV6, so far, I don't see an issue here, but we can follow up Well, I'm opposite. Let's discuss the panelist Thank you. So far, you. So far. Yeah, so this is Farley. So basically, we did discuss some of these things during the ONM for services for an M And one of the packet, one of the problems that Greg described is applies that because sometimes you do the samples of these packets for tapping and all. And if you have a Cid, it it impact the load balancing or hashing with the packet So your normal flow and tap flow are different forward. But why I'm mentioning that at the end, we define an O flag in for the purposes that they're exactly same is is it does send a copy of the packet and how that packet is processed further on is the local matter how you get to the monitoring mode is a local matter on that node And one thing which is very clear in the RFC is that the configuration driven, the orbit processing is configuration driven. So you can actually just configure on the node that you want to tap from. So I would like to see an analysis of why that was not used and then there's another option of doing replication. We have defined application segments So if it's a matter of replicating, then that is another option. So I'd like to see that discussion Yeah. Thanks so far. Sorry, we're going to move real quick because we are already over time yep just a very quick comment I think this is the document that could really use security consideration from a very very start"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "This is going to come up. So rather than putting it in the end, let's analyze how it could be what's the threat model for this? Another issue, would be that lots of details we have currently set out of scope and I think which are mainly the operational aspects, like how do I decide where to tap? what's the right place and I was thinking from the PC point of view there is a section but it doesn't describe that how what information does a controller take into the consideration and my final comment is, which was something that like, while I was coming, it hit me that maybe should we be using the word tap, especially because of, like, you know, the higher level policy that we have IETF policy on via TAP tapping and this, it has negative connotation. So we have to think about this as well, whether it's the right term or not thanks thank you Thanks, Jeffrey. We're going to move to the next presentation, Shikhani Lee leave you're remote. And you have 10 minutes, including the question okay hello everyone i'm zichangli from tannan about I will present the SRI-6-SPAN draft on behalf of all courses. Next slide, please First, some background and multi-way casing Today, the school of networks is becoming larger Network traffic is becoming more complex and the requirements for network operation and maintenance are becoming more and more sophisticated SPAR technology is one of the essential tools for large school data centers and distribute AI training scenarios spy, or our SPAN is not sufficient To remove the limitations, that the mirror server needs to be directly connected on the physical or clear two link during networking overlay tunnel like ER-SPAN is used"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "ER span uses GRE for tunneling encapsulation but the most popular tunneling protocol for data center now is VX lab SRIPv6 is capable of connecting overlay and R2 underly networks and widespreadly deploy implemented. So it's time to do something to tips simple in pure SRV6 network With SRV6, SRV6, SRH, CID So it's time to do something to keep simple in pure SRV6 network. With SRV6, SRV6, SRH seed list, the imagination of SRV6 span is just beginning. Next slide, please please There is some pretty simple and consider reasons to come compatible as much as possible with a large number of analog software that supports ER span at two take full advantage of SRV6 capability we propose an SRV6 solution, so as to simplify the network architecture, whereas the span of mirroring technology is used and deployed and be compatible with the packet formats on conventional mirrors like ER SPAN and enhance the mirroring technology to meet new requirements. Next slide, please There is some function process of SRV6 SPAN SRV6 SPAN is not only compatible with a device that supports only an IPV6 capability but also matched with a network device with SRV6 SRIH processing capability There are six stamps first we should enable device as a device as function and the device will capture all the information and mirror original packet. Then the packet encapsulation of SRV6 span is about applied SRI6 span packets transport through SRIPv6 T or B pass, then the remote mirror server decalculating the SRIPv6 span pack Last, the mirror cell analysis"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "and process the mirror packet and its metadata Next slide, please Okay, this slide is a detailed illustration of the functional process And the ESPAN, you caps this header can be located directly after as an IPV6 header or after SFV6 header Under the remote system, can be located anywhere if the IP packet can be reached The original, the blue anywhere if the IP packet can be reachable. The blue line is the original packet for adding pass and the blue line is ASI-WISC span packet for adding paths Next slide, please The following are basic capabilities that need to be supported in the current version of SRV6 SPAN The following are basic capabilities that need to be supported in the current version of SRV6 plan. For example, regardless that need to be supported in the current version of SRV6 SPAN. For example, regard to the enabled SRV6 spam capability we can do it port-based or follow flow-based. And the captures which for the information can include time step, hardware ID, SDT, C.O.S., etc. And the original package As I. 6 by packet, you can encapsulation, can be the SRI-E-H or S-I-A-W-S-I-W with 120 128-8-B-S-RV-6 seed Next slide, please SRIPv6 span will be further developed and enhancement points will be detailed in subsequent documents For example, we can base development or using all latency and data to enable the SIPv6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "span. And the capture forwarding information can flex like or can be in the flex mode and the original packet can be compressed to avoid the past MQ check fill And the packet in capsulation can support GSRV6 CET And the retransmission of SRIPv6 Spine packet follows network. Next slide please. Thanks for your time Comments are welcome to improve the document and welcome to join our work Any comments? Okay, then we're going to move on please make any comments on the list of course to the four map six segments for IPU for service Rosendong Oh I'm guozhen dong from China Telecom The draft name is Form 6 segment for IPA for service delivering over IPA6 only underline networks. Next before I dive into the updates, let me briefly outline the chapter background in the draft of a framework of multi-domain, I our MPV6 only under the network and MPV4 as a set service It proposed a framework for deploying IPV6 only as the underlaying multi-domain networks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "In this framework, each PE will be identified by at least one IPV6 mapping prefix It will also have one or more associated with IPV4 address blocks, which are extraneous from local IPV4 routing table or address pool A specific data structure is identified as address mapping rules to express the mapping relationship between IPV4 address blocks and the IPV6 mapping prefix of the remote PE The mapping based conversion can also work in S-V6 networks, therefore for Map 6 segment is defined for segment routing They run in P nodes and provide support for employees IPV4 and IPV coeruncing function based on mapping rules. Next, please please Based on the suggestions and comments, of the last presentation, we may great adjustment to the draft compared with the last version The following updates have been made We renamed M4 draft compared with the last version. The following updates have been made. We renamed the M46 and M460 and M46 4MAP 6 segments We find the architecture and relevant fields of the form M46d seed by 4MAP 6 segments, refined the architecture and relevant fields of the 4MAP6 seed, added a relevant SR6 series TOV EXC extension, refined details behavior of form maps 6 segment on Ingress PE and Igres PE refined the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "ANA consideration and modified some typos else Next, please In the first place, the locator field is used to identify the node that is stationed the form maps 6 seed. The function field, I'd identifies the behavior bowed to the four map six seed. It takes a the 4 map 6 seed. The function field identifies the behavior bowed to the 4 map 6 seed. It takes 32 bits of argument because the ALD field contains the behavior identified of vendor's deadlines encapsulation or translation is performed at that point. And the IPB address associated with the P node, the value of L plus F should be less than or equal to 96 since 32 bits are required for IPAV4 address. Next please Sorry, that's a question. Kenton, do you want to ask now? Later, later Okay Go ahead, keep going. You have six minutes left. Thank you In section three of the draft, defines a new BJP prefix CID attribute extension TOWA in the SV6 service TOWVs to implement seed signaling for the four MAP6 series of the SOS service in the field of TOV type, it is set 8 for SV6 for MAP6 service service Next, please please We also added the part of S S-RV6 service sub-TOW, the S-RV6"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "the information of format C series is filled in the SRA service subtero value field Next, please In the section 4, we have made a large update of the content for particular data stream. One node is the increase PE, denoted by PE1 at content for particular data stream. One node is the ingress PE, denoted by PE1, and the other is eGrid PE, denoted by PE HPE maintain a mapping or database, the table, and entries in the MD database consists of an IPV4 address prefix, IPV6 mapping prefix, and the incalculation or translation processing way of an IPV4 package Before transmitting the IP4 packet from PE1 to PE2, and the address mapping law corresponding to its IPV4 destination address needs to be transferred from PE2 to PE1, therefore P2 is a support for management service based on SRV6 published the four MAP6 cites corresponding to the IPV destination address in the BJP prefix set attribute so as to realize the P2N node located at the age of the network to other nodes as synchronize the address mapping door that based on each PE device PE2 announced its capability to other note in the format of the 4-Map 6C of the Svers domain in the control plane"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "When PE2 receives the 4MAP 6 seed announced by P PE2, it extracted the relevant information and stores in in the local mapping rule database Next slide, please We also updated the cottage of ANA consideration The endpoint behavior is updated to end-4-map 6 the content of ANA consideration. The end point behavior is updated to end dot 4, map 6. Next sign, please please Okay, next steps, we encourage more discussions on mainly comments and the suggestions are we welcome. We will prepare new versions for IETF, 1201 That's all. Thank you. We have a question here. Katan, go ahead. Katen, go ahead sisco so this work stems from a V6 ops document that you reference I think, on the second slide I noticed that that V6 ops document does talk about segment routing or SRVC at all. And there is there is proposal in IDR to do this uh there is an extension in ida adopted working group which is also not using as SRV6. So I'm looking for you know, what's the difference between that solution and what being presented here and yeah so something like that clarification. Could you please get in sending out to the list? I'll send it on the list as well yeah with the idea draft so that we all know what we're looking about yes I'll provide all the references point Thank you, Tom Thank you I'll just talk like this, tom hill from BT. I was kind of listening along to the presentation and trying to read the draft at the same time. And I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "what it's actually missing in particular here is a cast eye in description of why I can, I think I fundamentally understand what it is that you're trying to describe and design here, but I don't understand what the app application is. I don't understand why we need this because we already have capabilities for IPV6 only SR NPLS domains IPV6 only SRV6 domains and we can carry IPV4 traffic across those Yeah. It's a very limit, I think it's a very, limited application here for this new work and the best thing that you could probably do is probably add a section that describes the intended deployment deployment For the case of IPV6 only deployment, since the IPV6 users needs to access IPV for Internet service in this case, users can have only IPV address, so the approach needs to consider translation as a very as in-cast relations incalculations Okay. Well, so you're confusing two streams there, so either if you're talking about the only transport routers that, you know, underlay, or you're talking about providing you know, IPv6 connectivity to, you know, services that can only support IPv4, or IPV4 only destination we have a bunch of protocols for this already in Map you know, Nat 64, 464X, a bunch of whole things that we use and do already if if there's no example that you want to put into the document then perhaps a comparison with other technologies that already exist?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "Yeah, so this is also similar to what Kevin ma asking of the comparison with other technologies, in other words So let's take users because this is a larger discussion, this to the list Thank you. Thank you. Thank you Thank you for the presentation. We're going to move on to the encapsulation of B because this is a larger discussion, this to the list. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Thank you for the presentation. We're going to move on to the encapsulation of BFD and SR6 policy xiao min, you have 10 minutes Hello everyone I'm xiao min from ZTE This presentation is on encapsulation of BFD for SRV6 policy This draft was presented at IETA 118, so this time I just want to present the main idea was presented at IETF 118. So this time I just want to present the main updates since that's IEDF. Next slide please This is a recap of this draft. This document describes the encapsulation of BFD for SFV6 policy BFD packets can be encapsulated in two modes. Insert the mode and in caps mode The BFD must be fed sharing with data traffic For insertion mode, BFD package is encapsulated within the UDB header and the outer header is a single IPV header for the encapsulation Udb header and the outer header is a single IPV6 header for the incaps mode. BFD packet is also encapsulated within the UTP header, and the outer header is a double IPVC header, and that's a slide piece Great, do you want to ask a question now or wait?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "I can ask after this There is enough time Okay, so let me go on This chapter was presented at IETFI as I said, and Greg, made good comments on this draft it's not IETF. So it's 0.30 version was posted to address Greg's comments And they also want to express the sincere thanks to Greg Thank you. Next slide So this is the first main update since IT 118. We have a new text in introduction as specified in job to IETF spring BFD, the basic element monitored by the BFD is a segmental list. That is a constituted of the candidate path of the particular SR policy and also we copied the text at the Spring BFD draft here and you can see it's aligned now. So if the Spring BFD Oking Group document is going to be changed, as for our review in the comments, our job can follow that change. And I see think that's not a big problem So next slide, please This is the second main update since IETF 118 So there was concern that BFD Echo packet should not be included in this job So I'm on discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "within the authors, we decided to remove the BFD echo packet encapsulation So currently the latest draft on include the BFD encapsulation, BFD control packet So, for furthermore, we also do a change to the name of the mode so in original originally the name transport mode, it's renamed to insert mode, and the tunnel mode is renamed to Incaps mode The new names are from the SFV6 behaviors, edge dot insert and edge dot incaps. So we think the new names seems more clearer and better. Next slide this is the third main update. In Section 3 we use normative language we command it to substitute the lowercase main Because according to the current implementations implementations, the BFD control packet is recommended to use the head-end IPV6 address of the SF6 policy as the source address and also recommended to use the endpoint address of the SF6 policy to be the final destination address So we make this change. Next slide, piece Next steps, we ask for more review comments we are revised just dropped. And then if there's no more concern, we ask for working with dollars That's all. Great Go ahead. Yes, thank you. Um, so I have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "probably two questions. First, it's observation In introduction, it's stated that demand mode is out of scope but it appears that this proposal is covering BFD over multipoint networks 8562, which uses demand mode So I think that you need to revisit it and clarify the scope of the data documents or whether it's applicable to multipoint network or it covers demand mode. Second is about in caps. So in the figure you demonstrate second IPV6 header So and there is no discussion about how the destination address in this inner header is selected so I think that something needs to be clarified the selection of this destination address in an inner header. Second, the question is so do you see that it can be only IPV6? in caps mode, inner header, or it could be a IPV4 in a header? So that's something that might be clarified as well yeah and and after all I actually I think that um motivation for using in caps mode compared to the insert mode, so what the benefit also will be helpful if you clarify in the document. Thank you. Thank you very much thanks for we have one minute I have one minute. Well, you have one. He has one to answer Okay So in IDR, we're going through a BFT strict mode. Is this adhering to be? strict mode for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "or working on that concept? Let me start with that high level So, you mean, uh, to use BFD strict mode? start with that high level so you mean how to use is you have the strict mode yes there's be GP finite state machines over link for BFD strict mode and then what you're doing is you're putting on top of that an SR tunnel and you're running an encounter strict mode and then what you're doing is you're putting on top of that an SR tunnel and you're running in caps on top of that and I'm just wondering how it affects the state machine in the BFD strict or if it doesn't apply or you know we can take all of this on offline but there's some details and I'm the shepherd for the BFD strict, so I'm seeking information and help. Sue is an offer of the VS district mode? I think I can tell you that that is based on the VFD peers for the protocol so it's control plan where this is a data plane verification of the paths that are specified that just happened to be provisioned using VFT BFD, not BFD, BGP, excuse me So the only tie here is one is that those paths are advertised in BGP, but this is for the B, you know, as you know, the BGP state machine. So they're sort of related but they're not inter... I'd like to peel it down but thank you that's a good introduction and I'll dig in a bit further thank you Thank you. Everyone, we're going to move forward to the next presentation thank you thank you Policy, for aggregate, header, limit Yalu You have exactly nine minutes We want to get to all the presentations. Okay Hi, I'm yao liu"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "from Z T and this draft is about the problem statement with every header limit. Next slide, please So I go Agrihal limit has introduced 3, is a total header size set a root is able to precise due to its processing limit For devices with passing buffer, it's related to the device buffer side The packet may be dropped or sent to slow power if the limit is exceeded The starting point is that the total packet has device buffer size. The packet may be dropped or sent to slow pass if the limit is exceeded. The starting point is that the total packet header chain sizes increase, especially in SRV6. Here we list some adopted works that would increase the total header size so whether they are encoded as the set list, as such as change sizes increase it, especially in SRV6. Here we list some adopted works that would increase the total header size, so whether they are encoded as SIDLIS, S-H-T-RV, Hobah HOBT-H-T-V, or DOH-T-RV, and they can be used together And another point is that there are still some particular extension requirements to make the header type even bigger. And next slide, please So there are some different types of nodes involved in SRV6 networks. Normally, the intermediate analysis the local segment in the DA has the biggest burden on processing packet headers So in the example shown here, if it's immediate, as I know, it is expected to process the S-I-T-RV at the fast course, they should be able to reach all the header into its buffer. Next slide, please So the potential problems, first is the combinations of different functions would make the total habitat size even bigger And the operator's network really consists of different versions of devices for multiple vendors which often have different processing limits and different behaviors after limit exceeding, which makes it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "difficult to manage. And the third, layer is the past calculation without availness of aggregate limits of the nodes and the prediction which feature would be enabled may result in a pass passing through nodes with lower every header limits with passing through nodes with lower agri-high limits then required and the packet encapsulation by function enablement may lead to a package being encapsulated with larger header size then the downstream three nodes able to process. So the observation is there the aggregate header limits limits downstream stream node able to process. So the observation is that the aggregate header limits of the node or the paths needs to be about Next at least So here are some use cases. If you are aware of the aggregate limit. So when the centralized computer computers and there are parsed from S2D has required, and it's aware of the aggregate limits of the nodes in the park and it's knows that the PAHLOM and Network Slicing will be enabled on this park park It would be a series list between S2D and leaving all the space for a hobbit header with options for IOM and NRPRD And besides, past calculation, for the headers, or the intermediate nodes, when the node need to increase the size, it increases package header along the existing SRIPERS due to certain function enablement but the aggregate header limit of the downstream nodes along the paths are not sufficient to perhaps headers So if the node is aware of this information, then the node may choose not to in them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "the related function and log an narrow. Next slide, please please So here's some considerations on how to obtain Agriheader Olympia The existing mechanism introduced in IFC 8883 is when no discards a package due to aggregate limit exceeding it would stand an ICMPV6 destination unreachable arrow code for headers to loan So this may not work well when there are a large number of parts because a burden of sending and receiving messages increases if you want to leverage this mechanism for aggregate, aggregate header limit detection And for dynamic paths, the segment lists may change over time, which makes it more difficult to get the aggregate limit in advance. And the potential options might be a signal signal so that those in the domain can be obtained easy regardless of the amount or the type of paths. And for the controller, you can use some south-north mechanisms And next I think that's all and welcome feedback and comments Any comments on the room? Eric? Thanks, it's good Cisco. It seems like an interesting problem to be solved indeed Just a small comment on slide two, you indicate R.C 8883, but it's just an ICMP. I would suggest to you a refair 9098 which is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "about the optional consideration of using sledge and headers That's all. Thank you. Interesting work Okay. Okay. And that's that's it Jeff, go ahead. You're going to the queue, but I see you're trying so. It's still coming up So I assume you're familiar with MSD framework that has been published, it has extension for IPFSS and BGPL It's standardized There's young models that also define some basic stuff for a service six I mean, you're trying to do exactly the same thing, right? Why? uh yeah uh uh yeah the kind of the same thing but I agree the MSD about SLV6, but all these SRV6, how about the limits of the segmental list in the SRH but about all the aggregate headers, so there are not such mechanism So what it requires new methods? that signals additional metadata? seems like a good discussion for the list. Thank you, Jeff Sasha 57 seconds Sasha, actually you to say more or less what Jeff has said. There is a similar problem with some PLS and Maxwell stack deaths and maximal that can be imposed by a device and maximal readable stack depth and there are all recognized mechanisms for making the controllers the controllers of what this limitation so I think that more that the same should be done in this case"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:03",
    "text": "Thank you We don't have anyone else in the queue, so we're going to move to the last present presentation Balash. Hi, my name is balazs varga and in this slide kit I would like to show a new data player which is based on SRIV technology. And by the way, this is two drafts. We have a draft for the that network group, which was already discussed during the week. And this is describing in detail the that net specific bucket processing and how this concept work in order to have the user service seeks for the death net as a data plane we have defined a that net specific seed and this is for what we have created a document for the Spring Work Group which is describing the seed and the related SR receives behaviors Next slide, please In the deterministic networking architecture, it is describing a network domain which is capable to provide extremely low data loss rates and bonding latency within a network domain. And there were various techniques defined in the network architecture in order to ensure this correct characteristics. There are two sub layers defined in that map. One is the service sub-layer, and it is responsible for the service protection. In order to achieve service protection, it is using a per packet replication and elimination functionality Another sublayer is the forwarding sublayer, where these replication and elimination functionalities And other sublayer is the forwarding sublayer, where this replication and elimination functionality is usually combined with explicit rules For that, two data planes were"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "defined in the that network group and IP and an NPRS data plane In order to achieve this free of function you have to have sequence number information traveling with the packets. And this is something that was changed to define for a universal icon data plan. So in the first RFC, defining the NetNet IP data plane, it had limitation regarding supporting this NetNet service sublayer sublayer The Verkan was provided in order in the supporting this that net service sublayer. The Worker was provided in the Detnet Work Group by combining the Deadnet software technology and NPRS over UDP technology in order to define an IP data plane, which is capable to provide the service protection functionary Next slide, please However, when we look to the Datnet tool set, there are three major rules the resource allocation, the service protection, and the explicit rules. And in this presentation, we will speak about the data to service process and explicit routes because they are usually common together. And if we would like to have a native IPVCs data plan, then the task what we have to solve is to add the sequence now number information to the IPV6 header And the option we will present in this in the slide and described also in the draft it is to reuse the existing IPV6 header fields Next slide, please This slide is showing the three main building blocks in order to create this Datnet SRV6 solution The first was that we have defined a Datnet-specific seat format, which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "was capable to contain the sequence number in place first was that we have defined a that net specific seed format, which was capable to contain the sequence number information. The second that we have also described how to map the two arguments, which are two parameters, which are needed for the three of five functionality, the flow ID and the sequence number in the argument part of the deathless specific seat. And the third building block is the description of the SRV-66 behaviors regarding the net specific seat. And here, one new endpoint behavior were defined and four segment routing policy head and behaviors were defined Next slide, please Just in order to show how many bits you need for these parameters to encode. This slide is just summarizing that. So we need two parameters One is the flow ID This is saying your packet belongs to which that net flow. Based on that you will be able to select which pair of instance you would like to use when you are for forwarding the pocket In case of the MPLS data plan, we are using 20 bits of flow ID So it would be great to use also the same size for the IPVC data plan. Regarding the C sequence number, various size were defined. So we need maximum 28 bits for the sequence number. So in total, you need 48 bits in order to encode these parameters in the argument field And if we look to the usual recommendation and widely, used, allocation of the seed bits, then you are usually using 64 bits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "for the locator, 16 bit for the functions and you have exactly 48 beats for the R2 arguments. Next slide, please Well, we have about four minutes left Sure, I have just two more slides So this slide is just showing how these death net specific seat looks like Here is one thing that I would like to highlight is that if your function is pointing to a pre-of functionality on a that net relay node, then if your argument is zero, that is also a meaningful value for that net nodes because we are using a circular sequence numbers space and zero is a valid number in that circular sequence number space. And of course, your flow ID can be also zero if you are all allocating that in that way And the next slide is my last slide and it is just provided an important aspect, which was also discussed on the mailing list We have received some comments to this draft that the death net specific seed is always the last segment in a segment routine policy and in the draft we have described in detail the endpoint behavior which is practically a then decapsulation behavior and it is also describing how to form to the net net preo functionality the values in the argument fields. And for the policy head and behaviors, depending whether your payload, is an IP packet or a layer two frame for values had that behaviors were defined So that's it about these two drafts. It was already discussed in the Death Network group and we have also received feedback on the spring"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "mail list regarding that. So we are seeking for further comments and we are happy to go to discuss those aspects And this is something we intend to be routine in the next version of the draft. And Sasha, please Thank you sir Sasha Weinstein to understand how the proposal can if combined with what is not normally done for SRV6 base SRV6 what is normally done for SRV-6 BGP-based services and the BGP-based services the services, the services, is identified with an SID which is, SRO6 S-H service six SAD that is advertised in the normal way from egress to ingress in BGP If you want for this, specific service being, say, point to point, Ethernet line, virtual Ethernet line service, you want to apply pre-off, what exactly? would you combine this uh, this, uh, Online Service. You want to apply pre-off. How exactly would you combine this mechanism with the existing mechanism? mechanism? would you, would you, because you have a here an individual SID for all pre-individual individual individual individual, uh, Fero, EOF function for the entire node effectively, which you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "function for the entire node effectively, which uses flow ID and sequence number number I'm not, I think this requires clarification because eventually you want most probably to use a debt net on services and not just in the air I think that that's a very interesting topic to discuss Let's do it on the mailing list. Maybe just one immediate reply to that, that we have a DET controller framework document as well, which is describing how to play these functionalities in the network and that signal you may need between the dead net relay nodes. Let's discuss it on the mailing list in detail. I think that's a very relevant question. Thank you for the comment Sure. Sure. Thank you Thank you. Thank you Wailash. Thank you everyone for being here It's sorry for a break. There's only one very exciting session after this the ADR session, of course. We'll see everyone in Dublin. Please read your email and reply to the Charter comment on all the drafts that were presented here. Thank you so much"
  }
]
