[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:37",
    "text": "it\u0027s so just in case somebody is listening on the Internet I guess we wait for another five minutes to have more than one participant "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:06",
    "text": "Oh so we are still missing an energy mm-hmm but anyway let\u0027s start so this is the radix to working group session my name is Jeff and vinter welcome to chair this is your wall you know chair and we have a pretty light agenda for today hey now we do have an ID so um yeah first it\u0027s already Wednesday so ever you\u0027ve probably seen this there\u0027s a note well please note well the note well and then we have a very light agenda being a volunteer for the minute taking that\u0027s you know we don\u0027t need a Travis cry because there is nobody on me taking on Java I think they don\u0027t know is pretty okay unless somebody wants to add something oh okay then we can take a short look about what we did in the last couple of months and we have a discussion about one exactly one active working group draft there\u0027s a couple of individual drafts waiting for adoptions slash waiting for discussion on what to do with them which we talked about down near the end and then we have an incredible amount of time to talk about the topic called the future of radix and considering the fact that there are two chairs and three people in the room one of which an ad probably shows where it\u0027s going ahead so let\u0027s first start with the overview of what happened we didn\u0027t meet that ITF Emma um we didn\u0027t meet at ITF 98 so these are the changes from ITF 97 we published two RFC\u0027s the radius extensions for IP port configuration in reporting RC 8045 and data types and radios at-44 for a change we have nothing in the editor view nothing in ITF NASSCO nothing is processing we have one document currently still active awaiting the Shepherd right up that is the CEO a proxy from another Kok and Hume Cronyn meanwhile the Shepherd is assigned me I\u0027ve reviewed the document are it\u0027s not quite ready to go anywhere so I\u0027ve asked the office for a new revision and that is coming up ideally just after the cutoff we have nothing in working group last call there is one working Robottom which is in principle in progress that\u0027s mine on the correct use of the response identity field to be honest not many people asked me about it somewhere even opposed to trying out multiple identities so actually I\u0027m prepared to drop this one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:06",
    "text": "the benefits are small if you write an each subsequent there is some advice in there you might want to read it but it\u0027s the kind of document which is also perfectly fine as an expired draft to point to and say look there is some advice in the air and that\u0027s it proposals for new work we had the idea to move radios TLS from the current experimental status to step it back which is worked by Jim shot I\u0027ve seen him around here earlier today we don\u0027t have a draft yet we\u0027ve had some conceptual discussion ok hmm and that discussion was I think about a year ago so I see this work is also pretty much stalled a shame to drop that one because registry less is being used people are asking about it they\u0027re asking why is it experimental so it would really be good to get this one done but well somebody has to do the work and test volunteer so on the other two things which are currently being actively discussed in the working group are the radius extended identifiers attribute from Anka Chen and mr. Chen we have an a.1 draft it\u0027s one of two approaches to get this done so we will discuss this today actually the authors cannot make it to the meeting so they asked me to run the slides and I guess I\u0027ll do that and then we can discuss about it despite me not very much the second approach to the same problem is a draft from another cock who has also submitted to revision so these two will be treated as one block lastly Ellen would like to remind about the proxy considerations document he is intending to write so this is just a reminder in case someone is interested let\u0027s see if we find lots of interesting people and that\u0027s basically all we have on our wake up specifically the laura1 people were here once as if interested it was pretty much straightforward radius related work but they\u0027re not coming anymore so I\u0027ve got this one off the region okay that\u0027s it for document overview you see we have only very few things to do so the one thing I did was trying to do the shepherd right up for the seer a proxy document this had gone through working with basketball I think couple of times I don\u0027t nobody had any issues anymore so I thought no it\u0027s the time to actually get it done it actually reads nicely so I\u0027m quite happy with the document but for some reason for some reason and I thought we had a new customer so yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:13",
    "text": "but as I read the document despite several what people ask calls the work request called scrutiny must have missed that there was a section which had one word as a content which is stuff and for some reason I thought this probably doesn\u0027t pass for a clearance so this draft has to go through in other words the thing is if a graph gets that far with this word stuff as content can we really say we have working group process here I mean mmm many people are supposed to read the document and at least one of them should realize a there\u0027s a chapter missing so this is the first hint that this is not a very healthy working group to be honest so um let\u0027s see about the last agenda item the future of radix what did you about it right so the next thing to actually discuss then is um the two approaches on what to do about read the radius limitation that you can only have 256 packets in flight between the client and the server simultaneously which is not an issue for some other departments which is an issue for large departments um we currently have two drafts talking about that hmm so let me first bring up one of those this is draft Chen radix that enta fire attributes a1 so this actually a long history so the office tried a more holistic approach which basically real rewrote the entire radius header and fixed many things in the process this had some allergies in the people on the list so they have now shrunken their proposal to define one new attribute for the extended Aggie all changes to the packet header on so on this is now still a standard radius packet the idea is that there is an extra attribute the packets so despite the identifier you also have a new attribute which gives you another another space to identify packet of course the issue with that is that\u0027s both the sending sending site has to edit at the receiving site has to understand attacked up on it so this is something to signal and yeah there\u0027s basically some signaling messaging in the state to serve a message here so the attribute itself is pretty straightforward the steadiest server um "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:15",
    "text": "can be used to negotiate whether or not a given server actually supports and understands this incoming attribute and [Music] that basically is it this has been tried out our people have written code for that yeah so there is a patch to free radios things actually work that\u0027s pretty okay of course the capability new discovery is something that already has never had and we have backporting it\u0027s every single time we want to get that get something new done in radius and yeah I guess it kind of works I I see that it\u0027s about 190 lines of code in C so it\u0027s not the big change that rewriting the radius packet head would be much more gentle um so okay um the authors say it\u0027s a simple proposal and simple documentation um only few code changes at a small place identifier management can be trivial can simply use a monologue monotonically increase encounter and there is a large benefit it removes a long-standing protocol limitation I think that\u0027s also people say their spec is stable it is backward compatible because we use data server to negotiate this no changes to the packet header and no change to overloading of existing fields um and the office requests by expecting group adoption so anybody has an opinion on that Brian wise Cisco so I\u0027m a little bit I guess and maybe have an opinion doesn\u0027t work with the same companies authors but I really haven\u0027t been following their work I will just save having watched as going from what they had to this very simple accurate extension seems very reasonable and it solves a problem that you should do it yeah I mean um the group found very harsh words in the first approach so this one is actually a lot better definitely it\u0027s also not groundbreaking um personally I know that the ready HR people have this it\u0027s a decade or something so they have an extended VSA attributes just works in the tracking I don\u0027t have the state of self negotiation but even then things seem to work because they get this yeah yes a back um so yeah it\u0027s something you can do how close would this be to final well considering it\u0027s rather straightforward I guess it wouldn\u0027t take much to to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:16",
    "text": "finalize it okay yeah and how many people would be willing to read the draft chairs I have to be able to breath okay I guess we should ask this in the mailing list as well I mean there are more people on there yeah definitely but it seems like it makes sense if it\u0027s simple straightforward and it\u0027s enough of an improvement to the protocol I\u0027m just the room size like this it\u0027s very important in a few people is to agree yeah okay so um since there\u0027s nobody a musical particularly not Ella Dukakis who wrote the next slide egg I guess I\u0027m not going to read all of his life that in all the details because it\u0027s like 15 or 20 pages 16 the issue is that we have the second proposal from decock which addresses the same problem in a similar way so in the end we\u0027re ending up in the beauty contests between the two and that\u0027s surprising the approach is a lot different but it has the exact same effect basically so it\u0027s more magic involved I think I can just stick to a slide where it\u0027s but the core of it is defined yes so on whenever you send a packet in radius yes opposed or you should have a request of educator in the end of the packet meaning you can verify the authenticity of of this end up with the Shedd secret as it happens if you\u0027re sending the set back up twice you will also end up at the same request authenticator so as we need to change something else you get a different professor we can stop educator if you check these two sentences in one you could say right if I receive a packet with the same ID by the different request Authenticator this is not a retransmission obviously something else has changed so this is no duplicate I will just process it as normal and then I\u0027m done so the question of duplicates just doesn\u0027t exist anymore just because you do have more bits to identify a packet at the end it\u0027s an Bakula deal but then it has the side constraints that you have to have a request authenticated the original radio spec didn\u0027t work you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:16",
    "text": "require this so you might get an access request having done for some reason back in the day two decades ago people didn\u0027t think this is an issue these days there is the radius issues and requested or suggested fix this document and it says you should still do that also in access requests if you do you have a solution here of course we do have a large deployed legacy and we don\u0027t know how many masses actually do that even though we say they should do that so the proposal here is a bit rough around the edges if this is not being supported by the NASS there is however some negotiation here as well I think there\u0027s also stead of server involved just to be sure what is coming from the NASS and what you can expect from it so in the end yeah different implementation detail but solving the same problem mmm so I guess there\u0027s plenty of slides I encourage everybody to read but without the author himself being there because it doesn\u0027t make much sense so I guess the same applies here those who read one documentary will also read the other documents and should make up their minds and what they think is that approach so Kathleen Moriarty I think we need to chat a bit more right because people agreed to read the other draft and I guess I didn\u0027t read the agenda are enough ahead to know that oh now we\u0027re having a beauty contest so they agreed to something not to reading both drafts clearly it\u0027s a problem that needs to be solved it\u0027s just a matter of approach so I don\u0027t think we can just volunteer everyone to read every draft though what\u0027s have any opinion Brian Weiss not a as well in a form more as I\u0027d like but I would just say listening to the presentation I like the idea of it Nick\u0027s licit way of describing the behavior other than and implicitly which is what I think Karen\u0027s draft just doing there\u0027s a beauty to not have me to make a protocol change but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s nice to have it explicit what\u0027s happening yeah well my personal opinion is hmm it is semantically changing something without touching the syntax and that usually captures people by surprise and that\u0027s not not usually so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:16",
    "text": "nice but yeah um I guess I read both drafts myself again and think a bit more about it chairs have an opinion of preference for the time being I will so it\u0027s as it was said for I would go for an explicit indication so using an explicit attribute process instead of discovering stuff based on existing but you need to be to be aware of that so my yeah so for the time being I would go for the first one I like that explanation so I would say the majority in the room make me have consensus do you disagree with that logic either you know all right I think we have consensus in the room that has to go to the list obviously yes what we can do it\u0027s - it\u0027s to put it on on the meaning is to explain the difference between those strats and at least to indicate what would be at least the preference so far and to see if we can get consolations from the language okay that actually bring us to the last item arm which and the cock would present if you were here so since it\u0027s just suppose do you reminder I can also remind you the radius protocol leaves many things undefined in terms of proxying how to behavior very down stream survey is not responding does that mean that next server is not there should I actually market that and jump over or maybe is it just a few ups down one server which doesn\u0027t relay the messages and actually the next pop is perfectly fine so there\u0027s much things to be said about registration it is not said anywhere in now see so Alan has the idea to write this up but would need some volunteers I guess to wrap their heads around the contents so the idea still there and if you want to talk to Alan please not well okay yeah but this is now the big question now for today I think we had this agenda item called the future of products and to be honest I have my problems we\u0027re seeing a big future for a text as you see right now in the room we have very few participants coming to the meetings usually if somebody has something to push this three or four people sitting there coming one time doing a presentation and going away again we don\u0027t have much new work to work on the proposals we get every now "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:16",
    "text": "and then suggest drastic changes which would basically turn radius into something else in a lot radius anymore and I don\u0027t think that\u0027s the kind of what we\u0027re going to do here so the amount of in scope work this is just not very much as I\u0027ve said earlier in terms of reading drafts for working with last fall this doesn\u0027t seem to work either so I think we have a bit of a problem here and I think the natural conclusion that I might be to say let\u0027s finish what we have on the table and call it a day if you were earlier this sorry prime wise again so the one I think there is it\u0027s valuable to have a place in the ITF where when somebody says ah we have this new piece of functionality we need the radius extension or attribute extension word you know we need to get the document out if if this start this group doesn\u0027t exist where could we do that Kathlyn Moriarty area director one option would be to ad sponsor a draft and keep the list open so that we have our four reviewers still yeah sounds like a good option I mean people have a go-to place to start the discussions and then if it\u0027s important enough somebody will pick it up so as an extra data points just a few hours ago I think was yesterday all day before I met also had this meeting I decided to do basically the same thing and one more option opps area working group could adopt it as well yeah and as an extra data points even now that the work group existed some people came and so didn\u0027t have the energy to put it through so I don\u0027t think we\u0027re closing any doors okay yeah what I really find a bit sad about this mmm like I said earlier today reduced Els is still experimental people out there use it it is useful but I get these questions about sugar really jump on something that is experimental so just getting that one on standards faculty very good to have Brian Weiss what would it take any nursery controversy with the existing experimental definition does anything have to be done besides that\u0027s that\u0027s significant we had a discussion with Jim shot actually had slides in like IDF 95 or so it\u0027s not a lot it\u0027s the thing is that TLS 1.3 is coming up with these crazy one round trip time or maybe it\u0027s the hundredth time session starts and that might need a bit of a closer look "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:18",
    "text": "because if you use happen if you have an accounting package that I send in one shot does that really work as it used to no but there are no major things all missing halfway Moriarity ad so you could just base it on TLS 1.2 to finish up instead of waiting for a 1.3 as well yeah so TLS 1.0 and 1.1 have not been deprecated yet it\u0027s an option how much would waiting 40 let\u0027s one point free hold you up I know it\u0027s just about done but it was just about done yeah it is just about done who\u0027s your a round trip discussion extended it from the last meeting into this meeting I expected to get published before the next meeting or be in the RFC I mean with you now I mean given that we don\u0027t have any draft yet um oh I think okay yes how quickly you will overtake us so this one is experimental and published now yes is this 4 or 5 years something yeah it\u0027s an RFC maybe we can do a status change instead of a whole revamp is there anything critically wrong with the document as is I mean we use it in at your own quite heavily and there\u0027s tiny things by having a few sentences that might be half might might be worth having some clarifications on but ok I\u0027ll look into a status change that might be the right answer and then a new document for a 1.3 when it\u0027s you know when you\u0027re ready for that but you\u0027re not gonna jump on 1.3 right away right or is your plan - to be honest I don\u0027t even have issues with the thing being experimental myself so on I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any urgency and just as that estranged I\u0027m just doing things in it\u0027s your time he\u0027s fine okay can you guys remind me next week I\u0027ll probably remember that\u0027s just in case I mean that please not okay so yeah actually that was my last slide um so I got back to all of this on the my name is using including closing down the many closing down the working with if you do have other suggestions you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:19",
    "text": "have an army of people ready to come in she said us no but I\u0027m not expecting anyone this just just for clarification so we we are saying that we are closing the working room so that we are closing the working group after the last remaining document for instance we we are about to decide the world adoption of one of the extended is solution so the guess would be that we work for that ish there is a clear agreement on the meaning is that it could be straight forward and we can push forward the document as soon as possible and close the loop after that correct because yesterday yesterday no on Monday when we had the discussion on dime it was on in the in the all the way things that we are deciding to closing the group right now and any new document will be a candidate for a be sponsoring any any non working group documents but it just to contract with you that\u0027s work it with that\u0027s going in this direction in verdicts I would prefer to finish it up in radix okay we might be starting in this well so it\u0027s a little money to because I\u0027m a security area director and an ops working group where do you go to get your stuff done who\u0027s the ad sponsor for you I think it\u0027s easier to just finish this up in the working group but let\u0027s get it done quick so the faster they can turn that around I mean if we can get this through working a blast call and through 80 review and to I use to you before the next meeting I would not complain at all and then we close before the next meeting I think we can do that I\u0027m not the editor though so it hinges on the editors excellent okay yeah anything else send the audience yeah thanks to everybody who is listening on to this if there are any so it\u0027s been a pleasure I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna meet a lot of times with this working group so probably this was our last meeting just finishing up documents so um yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:40",
    "text": "it\u0027s I just need you to be the first one goes night-night [Music] I can take care of this and she want you "
  }
]