[
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:04",
    "text": "that are on the slide here, and you're welcome to come by if you have new work that you'd like to bring to IETF and are not sure how to do that that One of the things that we would like to emphasize, here is that, you know, we've got a number of different topics We've got very limited time, 12 minutes per topic And we're really focusing here not on the text technical details or the administrative details of the task that's being discussed We're really looking for a presentation that sort of describes the type of work that that presenter feels should be addressed by IETF and we're trying to simply direct that in the right direction. We don't want to get into any more detail than we need in order to have people understand the type of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "topic that we're trying to describe So really the question here is not to discuss the topic. The question here is the meta-disclose about where to discuss the topic And here are the agenda items that we have for today There's a space before the last two The first topics there are mostly in the general area, and the last two are SEC? Okay Okay Is there any agenda bashing that people would like? to do on this Okay and I believe that we have a note taker, Tiro. Thank you very much for volunteering and others are of course welcome to contribute on the tool as well and that's that so the first presenter several of our presenters here are remote The first presenter here is Karsten who, oh that isn't Karst, that's Karsten. And so, Karsten, I will will present slides for you. Is that the way you'd like to do it? Or would you? like to? If you can pass me the controls, I can lock faster for them. And pass control. Okay So, hang on just a second here Okay, thank you So this is probably the most boring subject, so if you are not quite awake yet, stay asleep. This is a about registry policies and this is a draft that has been prepared by Carson Bowman with me and by Marco DiLucah who is stuck at the Schick meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "at Norman, so he can't come via co-chairing the callworking group So, registries, registries have policies, and we all know BCP 26 or RFC 8126 that gives us a number of canned policies that we can just refer to. So instead of inventing a new one each time a new registries number of canned policies that we can just refer to so instead of inventing a new one each time a new registry is needed we can refer to those canned policies. And the advantage of having can policy is that everybody knows them, we can discuss them with their name We don't have to describe all the details each time they're easy to reference the details are already fleshed out. People have had experiences with them before. And the document is a BIS document, so it has some details in it, and also the interactions with other documents like the earlier location mechanism are well defined. Somebody has thought about that That's really a useful thing to have So we all love those where known or can policy Somebody has thought about that. That's really a useful thing to have. So we all love those where-known or canned policies. There is one little problem however, these are essentially coming to variants, one where a designated expert approves the registration and we all know about expert review and specification required. And one, we are a real body approves the registration So RFC required IETF reviewer standards action as she approved And the problem really is that these are discards from each other. So you can have an expert look at it, you can have a review body look at it, but you never get both. Now, BCB26 actually talks about combined policies, but really only seems to think about conditionals So if an SDO wants this, you need a specific"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "required, otherwise you need IRTF review, something like that. That's the example given in the document. But combining them not as an FNA but as an end that's not provided and that fails because some registries are complicated. You really need the expert who understands how this registry works. And well, the working group may be able to get this right but then some registries are also meant to be used by other efforts in other working groups that may not even have people who know those details of the registry So what we seem to need more and more is a logical end of expert review and one of the review body places. Now, of course, we can write it up in our RFC We have done that imperfectly because everybody does their own take and changes don't get copied and so on It probably would be better to do this work once. So this is what this is about. What this is not about is 8126 bis. So that's also a nice idea, but really, really want to get this very little problem fixed So the result should be a short document. The current draft has a three-page body and we don't think we need a lot more, but we could use a few eyes looking at it before we agree this is the text we're going to use and we essentially need the cross product of 4.5 expert review and 4.7 to 4.10 so this is essentially what the content of this document would be and it explains the responsibilities So who of the players does what and the BC 100 procedure, the early allocation procedure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "And now I'm asking you to dispatch All right, Laris is first in the queue Oh First speaker from this mic, I guess, for the day Ooh, it's really hot now. Hi, Carson, this is Lars So I'm wondering if you could explain to me why you would want to combine it, because in my mind, when you have a complicated registry and you need an expert, then you need an expert Why would you then also want an approval body approval why wouldn't then the expert be enough well we could give the expert an instruction that they have to wait for a NERC to come out or something like that. But the other policies are well defined. So something like RFC required is supposed to throttle the the requests. And we want to be able to use those together with the extra required But we need to throttle the request. So RFC required means it needs to go under go review either in the IETF or another stream, like it could be independent. Yes But if that's not appropriate if you want an expert to be involved why why would you want then also to have some other gate afterwards? That's the thing I don't understand If it's expert review, give the experts direction for what they should be doing and that can be like, you know, wait until an RFC is out I don't understand why we're complicating as to linking those two things that were previously completely unrelated Well, it helps if the various gating points know that they have a role in this So this is just a good advertising of what's supposed to happen. So we can bury it in the expert instructions but the other policies are there for reason they are pretty good because for example if you have expert review and IESG"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "review what if there's a disagreement right I mean sort of there for reasons. They are pretty good. Because, for example, if you have expert review and IESG review, what if there's a disagreement? Right, I mean, sort of... Well, it doesn't happen. They both have to agree But if they don't, so I'm worrying about complicating this unnecessarily, right? Either we trust the expert or we don't. And if, you know Anyway, I think I set my piece and there's a cue, but I sort of worry about the implications of this sort of it looks simple, but I think the devil's in the details Okay, watson ladd is next Hi, I think between this and the next one about Ayena, it's I feel like God's into the same place I don't know if that's enough for a working group. I think it would take too long, but I think there is a need for wider discussion. So it answered the dispatch question I'm not really sure All right, john klensin To respond, partly the largest question and and noting watson's comment that these are these two proposals are separate but related in terms of their origins of the of the RFC current RFC just not being quite good enough um but the the the issue is that for anything which is important enough to in the community's judgment, require IA but the the issue is that for anything which is important enough to in the community's judgment require IETF review or IESG review or IA review or IA that for anything which is important enough to, in the community's judgment, require IETF review or IESG review, or IETF consensus, we want to make certain that there's enough input into what may be very specialized issues to get that right And if not a matter of redundancy, it's a matter of making certain the right input is very and if somebody has taken on the rule of expert and watching the registry, all of the registrations that person is going to have better perspective than the community as a whole, or even the IAA"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "on the role of expert and watching the registry and all of the registrations, that person is going to have better perspective than the community as a whole or even the IES2. And again, that makes these complementary rather than redundant or extra efforts. Should they be used at all cases? No. But this we appointed a junior king and therefore junior queen and therefore trust them is a whole separate set of issues and inappropriate for some registries. Thanks Okay, but let's, uh, I've just closed the queue because we've gotten a decent sized cue decent sized queue. So please, let's kind of focus on the dispatch question, which is sort of like not trying to decide this issue, but sort of trying to decide how to decide this issue. Should this be a boff? Should this be a work? group? Should this be something that an ADD? decides or so forth? dean bogdanoviÄ‡, please. Yes, hi So there is an expert review similar to this was proposed within the young doctors when they review the drafts that people submit and there might be some other use cases where it's really worth it and in my opinion this would be something that the AD could decide if an expert review is really needed. And it should be like a group of experts that could be asked something similar to young doctors but it should in my opinion it could be decided by the AD on a case-by-case basis Marie speaking, just to answer the dispatch question 8126 BIFs and the next two documents together and the link to that queue is telling me this should probably be a small working group Very Liba This is barry leiba Broadly, I agree with what Lars said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "For the dispatch question, I think this absolutely needs a work group. Partly because we have we've had a bunch of issues for BCP 26 queued up for a couple of years now, and I've been meeting to do an update to 8126 and haven't gotten to it and then Murray said he would take it from me and do a draft and he hasn't gotten to it the community needs to get to it. So we need a working group to deal with this and the other accumulated issues with BCP All right, and Harold Harald Alastjah. To be a bit more blunt than John was We create registries We create registries in the belief that the community will continue to use them and understand them. Sometimes we're wrong Review, even IESG review, often is not competent to run these registries that the community as a whole has forgotten about So when we have that case, we need an expert on it. This is a change of process. So we think the right thing is, as you say small short working group and don't let this short be 10 years. Go for it Okay, that finishes the queue the referee to the room that I have here is create a small working group, is that? Okay, I don't see anybody jumping up and down, so that's good All right. Let's move on to the next presentation, and that is John Clemson"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "on hybrid IANN registrations I'm going to change this this is ultimately and if you could put up my slides, I appreciate there we go This is ultimately in terms of dispatching probably the same questions the other one if we wanted terms of dispatching probably the same questions the other one if we want a small working group for one, then we want a small working group It should include the other, as Barry pointed out, should include a review of the base document, which in some respects is the whole problem here, the fat-based document is out of date relative to how things are involved And so, as I say in this slide the symptoms of that both of these symptoms of underlying problems and the difference about those problems is probably best left to a working group but to review this problem and where it differs from Carson's problem we've got a tension in a growing number of registries between getting all of the uses registered to avoid naming conflicts and making that as painless as possible so it happens and getting good advice possibly consensus advice from the idea making that as painless as possible so it happens and getting good advice, possibly consensus advice, from the IADF, or at least an expert or the IDF and an expert or some of the other combinations that would make sense given the standardized conventional methods in the RFC We wrestled with this in email core and the revision of the SMTP specification and came to conclusion that the right option"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "for those cases where there's a serious tension between the community and registrants wanting some serious review and our wanting those names registered no matter what was to turn the problem over the registrant with the registrant with the registrant could say just a simple registration going to be first come first served The registry will probably indicate that it does have a consent but it's simply registration in that basis Or some variation on IETF approval of which the R8216 provides several different versions including ranging Mexburg review to standardization So the document discusses those things and as I said earlier it's probably better done in that revised version of 8126 but if that's years away or more promises away then this is worth doing just this previous draft under this discussion is worth doing as a separate thing and then fold it in rather than permitting it to wage and and it will be going to do a working group then that I would hope that the working group would pray or prioritize, obviously, need short-term fixes over getting every possible knit with the base document fixed, although that could easily be up to the working group Thank you Almost all of Carson's comments about the general contact and how these registries work are obviously being incorporated by reference. We don't have to completely look at All right, Barry is first"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "in the queue. And only, it seems barry leiba. Yeah of course this belongs in the working group previously discussed There is the issue of both Carston's idea and this idea needed to have something done sooner rather than later and it going to take a while to get BCP 26 bis done at this point but I think it would be I don't think it would be good use of an A.D's time to AD sponsor this. What I would like to see is maybe charter a working group to deal with the overall larger issue and have its first order of business be to deal with a couple of specific things that it can sort of burst out as to temporary fixes while it's working on the broader document Yeah, I think that's consistent with what I suggested Uh-huh didn't enter the queue via the tool so do you have the ability to enter the queue? No, I don't All right, then please announce who you are Amanda Baber, Ianna Okay. Just as sort of a public service announcement these procedures are currently in use, chaining things together with expert review. And this hybrid procedure can be built at any point In fact, the provisional provision procedure described in 413 is very similar to this, but doesn't require a specific procedure for prison specific for permanent Any opinion about dispatching?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "this work? No, we were talking to Murray yesterday about opening this up. So if he supports moving this to dispatch yeah we certainly we certainly want more community input. We support that Harold Harrell. Harold Alastjohn, Chair of Media Man The approach of emitting small documents that make small changes and then wrapping them all up in a big update at the end is what we're presently trying in media man, and I think it's a workable approach and the only thing is you need to get a work group share that is really good at whipping things along. Thank you So Barry LIABer, who not admitted vigorously at what Harold just said, but just to reply to what Amanda said yeah, we definitely can do this now, do any of these now with words in it document that combine BCP 26 mechanisms But I have sympathy for both what John and Carson have said that they don't want it to be done differently in every document and then that's cast in stone even though we're about to formalize it so there's some value in putting out a little small document that says, if you're going to do this, this is how you do it until we get it rolled into BCP 26 All right, John Clinson Yeah, the only thing I would add to what Mary just said is that there are nothing about what either Carson's suggested, what I am suggesting, that is provisional. Once we open it 8126, my guess is that the whole provisional"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "question is going to come under review and be fairly controversial but that's a whole different set of issues with the working group Okay Murray, I see you're standing up I had a question for you was you would volunteered in the chat too work on a charter Can your charter include both of these things? Now you're going to get me with the mic on, damn it Thank you Okay, so it's seems that the result as at least the feeling that we are getting that the room wants to establish a work group to address this those two kind of topics anybody has a problem with this like any any opposing views? Okay, so the next presentation is from Mallory about gender representation in Namcom and uh Trying to figure out how to go Where's this? There we go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "That button has multiple uses. Did you share this? All right, go ahead, Mal Mallory. All right. Thanks. Hi, everyone Sata couldn't be with you in person This presentation should be relatively short The draft is on non- NOMCOM gender representation and the draft initially has been around since I think February maybe but this is the first time I'm presenting it to you so this is just a copy paste of the abstract the doc document extends the existing limit on non- NOMCOM representation by company in order to improve gender diversity by ensuring that not all voting members of the IETF nominating committee belong to the same gender Really, really explicit goal. There are a lot of non-goals. We might get into them. We might not. But the goal is there are just no more men-only NOMCOMs So the document, again, is pretty short. It's only three parts. Well, four, if you count the privacy considerations, but the introduction just makes two very brief claims that are backed up with SIT citation for background argumentation purposes only that first is the lack of gender diversity and hiring teams in particular reinforce under under-representation of gender minorities and leadership positions which is what the NOMCOM is supposed to be doing. And the second is that the lack of gender diversity and leadership positions perpetuates gender discrimination. The second part of the draft is really, uh, about how the IETF should be thinking about this. So I present a few, just three really brief arguments that we already do in this community. Think about this and have made some important changes to our processes. The first is that I almost all the NOMCOM questionnaires, at least those I've ever seen, they ask about how the candidate would handle or think about diversity in the IETF"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "In the discussion that has happened on the law, already, the gen art list, folks have raised that, you know, this draft doesn't really do very much, it's quite a minor change I think we needed to clarify there in the second version that this change really is a sort of least or like minimum requirement. There may be other things we can do We should do them, but this is really focused on one, trying to keep the scope narrow. And then the last thing that I changed in the main part, in the main section of the draft is around tracking. So there was quite a lot of discussion as one could predict about you know, well, how do we know and how do we track this? And is this requiring that everyone's gender be registered, that sort of thing? And I think we made it really, I made it really explicit in the draft This should not require that. And then the last part is the remedy What do we do? So the real basic suggestion is just that we update RFC 8713 to extend the skip rule the two per organization limit in the NOMCOM you know, you skip the 10.3 or 11th or 12th slot, depending on how big your NOMCOM is if all of the candidates up to that point are of the same gender And I will just use one example that came up recently, why this would matter My organization has a policy that when we are asked to be on panels for example, and the panel is all one gender you know, a manal is sort of colloquial phrase for it we have to say no, right, unless you can find, unless you can get a more gender diverse panel. This isn't that necessarily This isn't a panel, but I think more and more we have companies and organizations do have policies about participating in non-diverse non-gender diverse situations and how to remedy that. So this could be one example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "And lastly, the privacy considerations document does talk a little bit about the tracking piece. So I just wanted to put that on this screen in case folks wanted to come to the mic to time about that I wanted to just on the dispatch question because I don't have a final slide I just wanted to say like, again, this draft is for a while back I didn't present it at the 119. I'll dispatch because I imagined it was like, again, this draft is for a while back. I didn't present it at the 119, I'll dispatch, because I imagined it would be rather straightforward to get well, it's clearly a general area, right? It seemed like AD sponsored would be sort of the only way to sort of deal with this but I didn't get feedback or response from either of the chairs at that time. So it's been Lars and then So yeah, I so I don't know. That's why I came to 122 I'll dispatch because I hadn't gotten a response on a way forward for this draft yet, even though there has been some gin art list activity So I'll stop there Thanks. All right. Thank you. Dean is first in the queue So just as the dumbcom chair for this year, having experience trying to ask people to volunteer for NOMCOM, it's end up being almost like a begging process This is not the first time because every time they are like multiple calls for volunteers and then you send a out emails to the working group chairs, hey, can you please say to your working groups if people are not following the IETF or the IETF announced and you end up with a, you know, let's say 100 to 200 volunteers and the more conditions you're putting on to volunteer sometimes you might not get the best selection because people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "will say, okay, I'll just throw my heads in my it And then the other problem is that wen lin general, it's organization do not attract when many non-male participants And this reduces the participation pool, and then you have a conflict that if people volunteer for NOMCOM, they call volunteer for the leadership position So and there are here it's the it would be great to have much wider pool of volunteers to become voting members. That's one part that in general, the community should take in, hey, if you want to participate you want to make sure that you are participating in the leadership selection and be more open to that. And the second part, is it's more, again, it's more general rule for the IETF how we can make this environment more friendly to non-male protection And then this will then go down through all of the parts of the organization. For NOMCOM to follow that rule will be a little bit hard. Yeah, could we think we think focus down a little bit more on what on what the right venue is to decide the questions that you're talking about rather than to discuss those yourself do you have an opinion about should this be a working group or? how should this be handled? I mean, this is just a wider question that just NOMCOM. It's about the overall participation So like in the question is how many people would participate in a working group? like this? That's that is different. It would be nice to have that general working group to decide how we can increase wider participation within within our community and that has been an open question for a really long time okay thank you Thanks. I would just respond very quickly to say that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "you were talking about how it's difficult to convince people to, you have to beg people, right, but imagine now with policies like my organization, have that are becoming more popular, people actually say I'm sorry, I have to decline because my company has a policy that I can't join panels or compositions that are all one gender. I have to actually say no. So you actually are potentially narrowing the pool of people who can say yes without having some guarantee that there will be at least some gender diversity. Okay, that's all I wanted to respond to Okay, dan harkins is next in the queue Yeah, thanks. Hi, Mallory. Can you go back one slide? So I read your draft, and in section two, you say, gender diversity has been shown to lead to more productivity and creativity Now I think a statement like that needs to have a reference that's credible, that's relevant to the IT and not behind a paywall so you should probably add that to your draft. Now, I do have an issue with 1B here. I don't think that the demographic makeup of the noncom, if it doesn't statistically match the demographic makeup the pool from which they're drawn, necessarily means that there's gender discrimination. That's the residual fallacy, and I don't think we should be compelling the idea to do decisions on based upon fallacious reasoning. Finally, I'd like to note that your suggested remedy, modifying the two and I don't think we should be compelling the IETF to do decisions on based on fallacious reasoning. Finally, I'd like to note that your suggested remedy, modifying the two-per organization limit That reminded me of something a little over three years ago I wrote a draft in section 4.3 of my draft My draft was about diversity and inclusion in the IE reminded me of something. A little over three years ago, I wrote a draft in section 4.3 of my draft. My draft was about diversity and inclusion in the IETF. And 4.3, I mentioned using this rule to create a more diverse noncom So I guess I should be flattered that you're making the same suggestion when the problem was, my draft was in April Fool's draft, it was sarcasm, and I think you're serious"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "So my suggestion to dispatch this is to the round file. I don't think we should do anything All right, Barry. This is Barry Lever I'll start by saying I take offense to what Dan just said Continuing to the point, I can't think of a simpler, more straightforward obvious thing to do, and Mallory, thank you writing this up seriously For the dispatch question, I hope I hope we can do this through AD sponsorship I would hate to go through the oh weight of a working group to get this done Thank you Ted Thanks very much. For the dispatch question, I do think this does need a working group because I think there are some aspects of this where we need to focus on how we're going to tackle the problem to make sure that this doesn't become of a go-to for other types of diverse particularly geographic diversity. I do think there are also some other potential ways for kind of a go-to for other types of diversity, particularly geographic diversity. I do think there are also some other potential ways forward for this that take similar approaches like if you have constructed something as a manual one way to do it is keep adding people to the panel until it is gender diverse as opposed to replacing people who are already on the panel So I think there are ways to do this that don't affect those that are chosen by random lot in the first set of 10 by saying, you know, you keep growing the NOMCOM until it is gender diverse. So I think we can focus on the problem, take it to a short-lived working group and deal with it there I, given the history of changes to NOMCOM documents, I think AD sponsorship is probably not appropriate in case, in my personal opinion. Thanks very much Thanks"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "Okay, thanks. martin thomson. Yeah martin thomson. I realize that there are some people who think that other aspects of diversity require equal measures of consideration and can see the complexities that test talking about, but I think I disagree with Ted I think that there are dimensions along which we have significant problems in this organisation and this is an opportunity to fix that relatively quickly and I would agree with Barry's disposition on this one rather than Ted's approach I don't think we need to worry about geographic diversity as much as we need to worry about gender diversity. This is a relatively straight fix. I have some minor questions about how exactly it's executed in terms of managing the privacy aspect of it, but I think that that can be can be done relatively quickly. All right Thank you. Thanks. Yeah. And for what it's worth, I, too, also agree that there are other axes of diversity and I think that with any approach to actually actually improving diversity, it requires a lot of attention. And it requires the right strategy. And so I don't think that one size fits all. So that's why this change is for gender and there would be other changes for other things. Thanks. Thanks Saul's former NOMCOM chair I think I still hold the record for the size of nominees a number of nominees, resurrect the eligible group, as we did for the previous NOMCOM eligible changes and send it there. This is important Clearly there's a variety of opinions and AD sponsored would not be appropriate We need the whole IETF to have a chance to say something Having said that, I hope it passes Thank you. Colin cullen jennings. I think it's really important work and I thank you for doing it, Mallory. I think when you do need to make things better, and we need to focus on this important problem. So because of that,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "I would like to see it done in a working group that was scope purely to gender diversity. I'm not saying other things don't need to be dealt with, but I think we should deal with this one first and it would be the easiest to scope it down and the second thing is I feel fairly strongly that we just had an illustration in the room of why I don't want to be trying to determine consensus on this with an AD on the IETF at IETF last call list I think that that's what basically rules out doing this as AD sponsored is just the bad behavior of, and, you know, what way that we handle these So I would much rather see us do it in a working group that was narrowly scoped to solving this problem of gender diversity thank you I feel you on that Colin but one second I did want to ask because you said you wanted to look at a working group that looked specifically at gender diversity, but I wondered if you meant gender diversity across the IETF, gender diversity in the NOMCOM gender diversity and leadership like is there any further scoping? I'm a little bit vaguer on that, but I would want to see their first mile. I think that you're the way you laid in out of, you know, we start with the interview committee, then we move down to leadership, then we move to the next leadership all those things to be fine. I wouldn't care if it only was chartered to do the first step of that process or all the steps of that process as long as it was clear that it was going to do the first step first, and I think that you've got the right direction for the first step as it is Thanks. Thank you Christian. christian huitema I agree with the growing consensus that this has to be done in a working group It cannot be done by edict The reason is that the NOMCON process use a drawing of lots process at random and that process is very nice in that it does actually capture the diversity of the pool If we start biasing that process, there's a tension because if you bias that process,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "one kind of diversity pushes another. So that may be right I did computation showing that, in fact, if we only add a bit more than 10%, women in the pool, then basically we will get Mallowese with in fact, if we only add a bit more than 10% women in the pool, then basically will get Marlowe's result almost by nature. So basically there are tensions there I dislike the idea of having a top-down process that's says this is a category in slotting people I like this sounds like a topic for the working group that it sounds like we have consensus to do Definitely there are many topics of the working group which have your working group I like this sounds like a topic for the working group that it sounds like we have consensus to do so. Definitely there are many topics of the working group with child your working. Okay, so let's take that there. Dean, you have something very quick because we're just very quick i just did it quick check. They were 15 non- volunteers for NOMCOM this year out of 163 okay Thank you. Sir Hi, is the responsible AD for this and the most likely, hey, Mallory, the most responsible the most likely AD to be asked to kind of sponsor this document the most responsible, the most likely AD to be asked to thank you to the mic to sponsor this document. I think given the kind of feedback we have and the kind of facilitation we're going to need to push this document and have this conversation I would like the structure of a working with group Hi, I know the queue is closed, but could I come in? for a second? Yeah, this is Caroline. I'm a co-chair of sisters, and I just want to react to Dean's point So the Sisters group has recently launched a chart and one of the goals that we are pursuing, or a couple of the goals are encouraging members of the Sisters Group to become active IETFers and also sort of, you know, accompany or support members of the group in accessing leadership positions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "So Dean, we can definitely work with a NOMCOM in getting those numbers up So just wanted to flag, yeah, that we can collaborate with the sisters group on that Other than that, if I may, I would like to also express my support for the creation of a working group on this. Thank you. Okay, thank you. It sounds like the on that. Other than that, if I may, I would like to also express my support for the creation of a working group on this. Thank you. Okay, thank you. It sounds like there's pretty good consensus here for the creation of a working group, so I think that's taken. So thank you very much for the presentation and let's move on to Elliot with List Management procedures Do one thing. Just quick How about we appoint one? female liaison for this, or non-male liaison for this NOMCOM? gender diversity and then it can be a non-made liaison for the NOMCOM Right right. Good morning, everyone. My name is Elliot. We are I'm here to talk about draft. Here, B.C. Gate replacement. One other draft that is covering well, bad behavior and how to deal with it Next slide, please So sometimes, of course, we all say things we shouldn't Sometimes an action needs to be taken and we have BCP 83 for that. We've now seen several instances of its use and to ban people both of them are extremely painful for all involved BCP has a number of problems limited flexibility, the public review processes painful for all involved. BCP has a number of problems, limited flexibility. The public review process is just torturous. I think we all saw that It was really demeaning"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "It didn't really preserve the dignity of the process, which I think was really a problem. And it required excessive amounts of community resources in that process so it's time for an update of ESP 83. Next slide, please they're actually so from my perspective there were some goals here in terms of doing the update. One is, of course, to enforce the IETF code behavior. I want to say that we don't specify that code. We just say if you violate it, it my perspective there were some goals here in terms of doing the update. One is, of course, to enforce the IETF code of behavior. I want to say that we don't specify that code. We just say if you violate it, that there are consequences We try to preserve the dignity of the people involved, not to have a public lynching or anything like that We want to use the least restrictions necessary to accomplish the job, and we want to have an open process and let people participate in the standards process if at all possible, without disrupting the process itself or otherwise discard other people from participating We want to make sure that the cost to the community is limited That changes should happen in a relatively fast time, you know, so that, you know, the consequences are at least proximate to whatever has happened And we, of course, want the process to be transferred provide privacy where possible and necessary, balancing that with transparency of course, allowing for appeals and not listed there are reviews So next slide, please. There are two drafts draft ECHC moderation My dyslexia, by the way, keeps me from ever being able to reproduce that spelling as it happens Now, this draft covers all IETF participation channels, not just mailing plenary mailing list, but all mailing lists and all other forms of communication It establishes a global team and that's modeled over"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "on how the existing moderation function works And the draft says that the moderators themselves will propose an establishment processes to meet the goals that the community sets. This draft is a reasonably complete, but still there's some more work needed, and we definitely got some feedback on the mailing list about the Second draft is draft, you're BCP 38 replacement, which is much more targeted towards the plenary lists that you see there It does something new, which is it sort of delegates this function to the IETF executive director so that things can happen a little more quickly, and he's actually reasonably well equipped to handle that There were some objections to that on the mailing list as well. I think it's worthy of some discussion There are some benefits of having the LLC involved versus not It specifies transparency a piece and etc cetera. It allows for broad authority for the function with review with that And of course, there's some more work needed here. Now, this morning, the two author groups or portions of the two author groups got together. We can see a lot of common One of the reasons I initiated the draft was I thought that the other draft was actually dead So it turns out there's so much commonality. I think we definitely want to combine forces and that we see the perfect ability to do that. So next slide, please. So we think next steps are one of one of those already been done, Roman's created a mailing list. We want to lay out sort of the key differences, agree on the goals and the scope right? Are we talking about just these plenary lists or? we talking about everything i think amongst the authors we see room to do really everything so long as lines of authority are clear"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "particularly if working groups are covered, then we need to worry about that. And then, you know, sort of take the best of both works or a mix of something else And, you know, we think this should be done in a working group Well, everybody thinks that their work should be AD sponsored, right? Roma? but, and of course, mine should be, right, except nobody but me agrees with that So we think a working group is appropriate, and Roman, do you want to make a comment or two on this? this? Yeah, thanks for tuning me up, Elliot. I'll just repeat what I said in the closing of the last PR PR action we have we have. The IESG believes we need community, strong community conversation on that. We don't per se know the answer of that, but we believe that the answer will come from the community. We are thrilled at the are multiple draft draft to kind of choose from from different options. We have created the mod discuss kind of mailing list. We observe lots of conversation there. We think that's very kind of very positive. We also believe that the resolution of the long-term fixed to moderation will require work group to get consensus on this so we are supported and stand ready to charter if the community wants that to happen. Which I believe, um, the next question Thank you. So does the community want the to happen and do people have questions or comments? So Harold is first in the queue So, Harrell Alice, John IETF chair at the time that this was BSPAT3 originally landed It, I was somewhat shocked to realize that it still is force The way it came about was that there was a discussion about suspending a particular noxious individual"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "on the IETF list. Certain parts of the community claimed that there was no possibility of ever ever kicking someone out of the IETF then and we shouldn't have it. Other parts of the community agree that it should be possible. Among them are Marshall Rose. So I challenge Marshall Rowe to write up a process that is so obvious painful that it will only be invoked when necessary. And the result was BAP3 Now, this was kind of intended not to be used ever, but we need it the point is this is not holy writ. It needs replacing because the needs have changed. Let's rewrite it. Let's have a working group. Okay, well thank you. We've got a lot of people in the queue, which I'm going to close pretty quickly. But please focus, especially if you have any disagreement with the idea that a working group is needed for this. We'd like to hear from you but other than that, please just keep your comments for short and to the dispatch question Ron. I'm listed as an author on one of these I basically tagged along. I'm one of the last call moderator We've had two PR actions that have gone to the last call list in both times. It has been what could be adequate described as a shit show. It was a really bad, it's a really bad process. It's not effective. It's not good for the community. It's not good for achieving results so we certainly need to change it to something else there the only times I've ever had to moderate anything in the last call list. Everything else has been very well behaved. But when PR actions come up, everyone's bad behavior comes out. It's not the right way to do it. It's not fair on the person having the PR action put on them and it's not fair enough everyone else either. Thank you. David Plus one to Braun. Thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "to the authors of your draft and to the authors of the other draft I think both of them have really good ideas. Our working group is ripe right place to hash out what we want the actual solution to be but let's do this and I'm willing to help Thank you. dan harkins Yeah, thanks for doing this, Elliot. I agree that I think that this whole process is ugly and toxic. There's a, the whole, it goes for for a month and there's a huge piling on period where everybody on the IETF list does a Me Too and that causes the target to feel that, you know, some of these things that has to get responded to, which creates all these toxic sub threads that go on to the main thread and the whole thing just gets completely out of control So we really do need to to address this and I thank you for doing this, and yes, there probably doesn't need to be a working group Thank you. Martin I think Bronz said by the one you for doing this. And yes, there probably doesn't need to be a working group. Thank you. Martin. I think Bronzib, I wanted to say, and I forgot to get out of the list. Thank you to everyone who's doing this work It's very important Thank you. andrew campling. I, uh, andrew campling I think this absolutely needs to be done Very happy to help. I'd urge that we look at some of the equivalent documents from other groups such as Ripe. I think there's some good things we could learn from there I would also urge that we don't ask the LLC exec director to do this. I think that will be a poison chalice and he wouldn't thank us for it, in my view The community needs to own this, not a delegate to somebody else. Thank you. Andrew, just one request of you, which is if you have points, that you want to share about how others do this if you could just post those to the mailing list that would be very nice Great, nick doty Plus one for thank you, and I'm fine with a working group or some other approach. My comment was that I do think we should take this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "slightly broader scope of applying to not just the plenary lists, although I certainly think that is a urgent area for discussion and improvement but I think it would make it easier for people coming in the IETF if they had a pretty consistent model is an urgent area for discussion and improvement, but I think it would make it easier for people coming into the IETF if they had a pretty consistent moderation experience, no matter what list they end up using Great. Thank you. Colin. Hi colin perkins. I agree we have a serious problem with toxic behavior on a number of our mailing lists It is worse on the plenary list than on the working group lists, but it does exist on some of the working group lists as well I also agree that the BCP83 process does not work We need to do something better To my mind, either of the current proposals are an improvement on what we have in BCP 83 I very much support a working group going forward to find us a focus solution to this problem One comment. I think the way we want to write this, if at all possible, by the way, is that it can be easily adapted to the other strengths just as a side comment Yeah, I mean, the other streams have different moderation processes to the IETF stream and the BCP83 process doesn't apply there anyway, but yes, if there is a good solution which would apply to the other streams, I think that would be a good thing Thank you. Warren. warren kumari, Google. So as everyone has said, thank you very much for doing this. Clearly, somebody needs to do it I'm fine with a working group. My only concern is I think we should deal with this quickly. And if there's a working group there's a tendency for it just drag on forever. So short working group I think, by the way, Roman, what you just heard was a volunteer to be a chair Okay To repeat the position of the IESG because we have discussed this kind of extent position of the IESG because we have discussed this kind of extensively, we are prepared to move fast if if folks have charter text, we think that would be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "great to put on the list. We will also be happy to sponsor interim bond We do not need to wait to double it Okay, well it seems fairly clear that this is a short duration working group, right? It's a working group Aspirational short duration, right? Okay. Great. adrian farrel is next talking about experimental RFCs Right, from something we hope won't happen very often and is important to something that doesn't happen very often and is arguably less important although an important note here, I wrote this draft with Ron. Ron has a new kidney this week and he's going for it it So the draft that's out there is just a state in the ground You can't dispatch well without a draft so we wrote one There's a lot that could be improved in the draft Let's not focus on that. Let's do the dispatch thing thing So we are looking here at protocol experiments Process experiments are a different kettle of ball games and we're focused on the IE stream. Hopefully other streams might tag along, but that's not what we're looking at The chart here shows that there are not a lot of protocol experiment RFCs published over the last five years and of those only about 50% come out of the IETF stream stream So why do this? Our view is that experiments are experiments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:01",
    "text": "They're not end runs, they're not a way of putting your pet protocol into an RFC so you can get it into the field They are genuinely experiments and an experiment really does need to be properly scoped with essentially why you you doing it, how do you contain it and stop harming the internet? and all that lovely stuff? My experience is that authors generally do not properly describe experiments partly because they don't know what they should say, partly because the working groups don't give them good advice And it comes then to the AD very late in the process to push back and say, hey, you want this to be an experiment, describe it properly and it seems to me wrong that we should be leaving it that late Authors would do a better job if they had some guidance not rules, just guidance So, how might we dispatch this? This is a list of things we might do Our preferences are either, hey, ADC sponsored, or a wiki page or web page. And I would say to that one that it opens up quite a can of worms about how do you get consensus for the wiki pages and how do you move all sorts of other processes documents to that format and I would like to the wiki pages and how do you move all sorts of other process documents to that format and I would like this idea not to get stuck in that quagmog do you move all sorts of other process documents to that format. And I would like this idea not to get stuck in that Krogmeyer, but beyond that, over to this group Terrific, thank you. Tourless is first in the queue Thank you, Adrian. So correct me from in the queue. Thank you, Adrian. So correct me if I'm wrong, but this may not be describing the full extent"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "of what we're calling experimental, right? Because we all do still have, I think, the ability to have experimental working groups and I think the best two examples coming to mind from where I've been working are the LISP and the beer working groups, which started out with technologies where in the beginning it wasn't entirely clear whether we feel confident enough for this to be called Internet standards and only after kind of the first phase of the experiments in the working group or so were these working groups upgraded to the standard working groups and actually the experimental RFCs all of the first phase of the experiments in the working group or so were these working groups upgraded to the standard working groups and actually the experimental RFC is also upgraded in their status so when you're talking about these aspects, I think you're talking about the ones outside of a working group where experiments can also be done, right? Or are you not? No, I'm not. I don't believe there is such a thing that an experimental working group. I think there's a working group that produces experimental RFCs. Right. Okay So we are talking about RFCs that are classed as experiments that contain protocol experiments Okay, so if, but basically, you're in the chartering of a working group, you can also make statements about what, you know, a gold standard and or experimental, the RFCs have, right? So in that respect, a specific group, you can also make statements about what, you know, gold standards and or experimental the RFCs have, right? So in that respect, a particular dispatch isn't necessary for all of that experimental work Yeah, okay, this is not talking about dispatch rate experimental work. This is talking about dispatch a description of what experimental work should include to describe an experiment Okay, everybody can go off and do experimental, that's just great However, what should the document actually contain? What advice are we giving to people about? how to describe an experiment? Do we have something comparable to what you're asking for here for standard? track? Nope. Okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "Owen colin perkins. I, have been having similar conversations with offers of experimental documents going to the IRTF stream for the last few years and trying to make the description of the experiments clearer and I agree that this is something this community has not done very well in the past and I think some guidance on what it may a good experiment and particularly when that experiment should be considered a success would be a useful thing to have So I would support some work going ahead in this topic I suspect that guidance might be slightly different for the different stream an experimental document on the IETF stream is probably much nearer market, should we say, than an experiment document on the IRTF stream, so I'm not sure it's necessarily going to be the same guidance, but I think providing some guidance would be a useful thing As to how to dispatch it, I would probably lean towards AD sponsored, but yet another targeted working group might not be a terrible idea I don't think the independent street or a wiki page or so on is appropriate here Thank you. Cullen So I want to talk about what I think she should be out of scope for this for a second. I'm fine with the word group or something. I think it would be valuable to have some information that tells you how to run a good experiment. But the point I want to make from an out of scope point of view is right now some sometimes we use the experimental label to describe things that are actually experiments, which is fine And this would help them, no problem about that But we also use it to describe things which have not reached, which are basically a protocol"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:01",
    "text": "specification, but do not have the level of consensus that we would normally expect to have for information or something else And I don't want to lose that use of experimental. I think that's a very valuable use. It gives us an outlet to lower the stakes on people and allow them to get a publication on RFC number on some certain things that probably should be published but can't achieve the normal level of consensus you'd have for use on the internet. So, you know, I think of it as BCP does not mean best current or practice and also we have a three-tier system with experimental information and standards, you know, PS, as the three levels, right? I mean, we have used it that way. And that's doesn't mean it can also be used for experiments, like you're talking about real experiments here, which is great, but I don't wanna lose the use of it in the other way that we've done it. So that's however we do to scope this, I just want to make sure that it doesn't redefine experimental to only be things that are actually experiments Okay, that's, does that make sense? That does, and I think what you said could easily be captured in that kind of descriptive guidance Easily, yeah. Yeah. Yeah captured in that kind of descriptive guidance. Easily, yeah. All right, and we've got a pretty good cue because we're going to, so we're going to close it pretty quickly. jonathan lennox um yeah to sort of amplify and uh queue because we're going to, so we're going to close it pretty quickly. jonathan lennox. Yeah, to sort of amplify and add on to what Cullen said, sometimes, instead of my working group, by the time something finally gets through the work group process, it's clear that it's actually failed you know, the industry has suddenly said, but you still want to document it. So in some sense, that's a failed experiment it's not an experiment so i would say if you don't want such things described as experimental, including the things that Colin said, you should describe how they should be published You know, what if you, the things that you don't like being published as experimental today you should say what they should do instead because I think just not publishing them at all is not the right answer Yeah, advice on that might be really helpful and reminding people about what historicism as well All right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "suresh Thank you. Thanks for writing this, Adrian. There's a piece about the experimental court points. It looks a bit wishy-washy in the text in the draft. And I would like something stronger which says, like, if there's an experimental code point, you probably have to define why you don't want to use it and go for another allocation I think we don't see a lot of use of experimental code points we just like burn other things and kind of not use them again. So I think if it has stronger text about using the experimental code points if they exist that'll be really good. Next. Does that affect how you? would have this dispatched? No. Not that not that, but like, but I think the text itself would like Just a question whether there was more like more discussion needed than than a d sponsored or no no i think it's good like 80 sponsored sounds good enough for this okay thank you uh twirless yeah I think um, Cullen was bringing up the point of, um, know, that we don't have enough agreement to do something beyond an experiment right so i think my point was we may all agree on doing something, but we don't have the confidence that it ultimately will work out And we had enough examples in the past where we were overconfident in the past and after 10 years, we had deployed this stuff ubiquiously and had to figure out and agree it it doesn't work well enough right so that's why the aspect I think I wanted to say is that I would love to see a lot more, you know no overconfidence, start with experimental, but all have the goal in mind that these things should be upgraded which I think I gave two good examples of working groups and not only the experiments meant to be, you know, and be dead afterwards, right, but also as a way in our process to be careful even if we agree to not be overconfident tom hill Hi there. I'm I think mostly speaking to what Cullen said earlier, but I feel"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "as if there's probably an undertone here of there's work going in and being claimed as experimental when there isn't, and we want to try and strengthen the rules around experimental RFCs I would suspect that if wen lin terms of dispatch, if we put this down to a single AD-sponsored RFC we might lose some of the community discussion around this And I feel if we shortcut away from perhaps a boff losing out on that discussion and why STO shopping happens and you know why work might if we if we don't have it here and we don't see it, sometimes actually that could be a bad thing, it could disappear off into it discussion and why STO shopping happens and you know why work might if we if we don't have it here and we don't see it sometimes actually that could be a bad thing it could disappear off into Etsy or the ITUT perhaps making sure that we've had the fullness of that conversation with a boff maybe doing a little bit more work than the bare minimum, I think could be valid Yeah, I wouldn't want this to go from, directly from the authors of written a draft to an IETF last call under a AD I it needs something like a mailing list or, as you say, a boff or whatever, to actually push out the discussions. I think it's a complicated discussion, so I don't think a boff would be overkill I think is my main point Yeah, go ahead, Roman. I'm trying to figure out, I'm getting different opinions about what this should be AD sponsored or needs more discussion. Right, yeah I'm just tripping over this again, so maybe it'll go better next time Yeah, maybe as a proposal, uh, is we create a dedicated man list, see where the conversation goes see how much more conversation we need and that might decide the course of action whether we can resolve this through a manueless conversation and then we can go to AD sponsorship, or perhaps this is such a broader conversation we need a different a different venue but mintic a mailing list, happy to mince you one, if that makes sense Works for me. Great. Thank you very much"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "much david schinazi is next on Milestones All right. Whoa, this is loud. Sorry Good morning, everyone. Happy Monday All right. Let's, my name is David schinazi, and let's talk about milestones Next slide, please Back one please. Perfect, thanks, no worries So, as anyone who's chair to working group or been involved in the creation of a working group knows, they all have milestones And that dates back quite a while to RFC 2418, which to defined how our working groups operate And you don't need to read the whole thing, but that RFC defines how a working group defines its charter, and in particular uses milestones heavily in terms of defined what the working group will do and when it will do it. Next slide, please So why did we do that? Like during chartering, it's particularly useful to know like the group is going to work on and especially ordering. Sometimes at chartering time we say, okay, you need to finish this before you can start working on extensions, for example Then further into the life of a working group, it's kind of used for the ADs to keep track of what the work group is doing. And some folks from outside the IETF use it to look into what the working group is doing. Next slide, please It turns out that the using them to know what the working group is doing is a team terrible idea. This is an example of a working of the milestones for working group. So sorry"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "for picking on that particular working group. I looked alphabetically and it was the first one I saw the head out of date ones But this working group is not the home one. In 2022, Lucas actually measured this with some scripts. And 82, of them were out of date. And more than half of them were more than 2.5 years out of date So if you're using them to know what's going on, you're getting incorrect information way more than half the time So they're not serving their purpose in that regards. Next slide, please So one point about dates the IESG did experiment back in 2020 because at the IETF we have process RFCs and we must follow them unless you call something an experiment and then you can do whatever you want. Pretty great. But we kind of forget to follow up on this experiment and decide if we wanted to keep doing it or abandon it. So a lot of working groups still to this day have what we call dateless miles forgot to follow up on this experiment and decide if we wanted to keep doing it or abandon it. So a lot of working groups still to this day have what we call dateless milestones, and they still have these work items in them but they don't have dates attached to them, so you don't have to periodically update them all the time At this point, we should probably decide if this worked out and confirm it process-wise or say we don't like it and can't it. Next slide, please So I wrote a draft. The first verse of it had like seven different proposals. We discussed it, I think, on the working group chairs list, which was just a venue for folks who are the ones responsible for updating the milestones and who 82% of the time don't myself included And based on that discussion, we kind of landed on one of the proposals So I kind of rewrote the draft to focus on that proposal So what does it say? It's a document that's pretty short It updates 2418 and it declares that milestones are now optional It also says that the dates are officially optional. So if you have milestones enabled on that working group, you can make them dateless or with dates. And"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "you can change the granularity of dates as well, because some folks said that month, year was way too precise, but some preferred it And so the idea is that it puts all of this in control of the responsible ID for the working group. They just too precise but some preferred it and so the idea is that it puts all of this in control of the responsible ID for the working group they discuss with the chairs see what works best with them and agree on something, decide that. Part of the motor in control of the responsible ID for the working group. They discuss with the chairs, see what works best with them, and agree on something, decide that. Part of the motivation for that was at the end of the day, the chair are the one responsible for updating the milestones, but if they're never going to do that, then maybe we don't need a date in there, or maybe we don't need milestones at all Malestones, based on the discussion on the list, people are saying they're much more useful in the early days of a working group, but when you have a maintenance working group, many years into its existence, they in many cases become less useful So this makes it on a per working group basis and can be decided so that way we can have working groups that use them and keep them up to date that aren't impacted by this change and working groups that think that they're always of time don't have to deal with them anymore anymore And yes, the document also has some little process tweaks like allowing the age to say, yeah, sure, chairs, I don't need to approve every time you update the date, because it turns out that some ADs were forgetting to click the approve button, and it also includes some guidance for chairs. Next slide, please All right, so do we want to do something with this? The dispatch question as a process detail, because 2418, was a BCP, updating it requires a BCP, which requires IETF consensus So our options are having the Gen AD sponsor this like the seven documents before it, we're going to start cloning Roman and it'll be great. Or do it in a working group, so it could be a short-lived working group just for this. It could be a short-lived working group for this and a few of them other proposals that we're discussing in the gen area It could be a long-lived working group for Gen Area stuff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "We could not do this at all or something else. What do y'all think? Braun Hi, so I became a working group chair at my first IAT If I had no experience beforehand of what it was being a working group chair. I went to a working group chair's meeting where milestones were discussed and went, yeah, I should just do that and did it. And now at the end of every single meeting we go through the milestones, we update them They're either useful or they're not. If they're not useful, we shouldn't have them if they are useful then it takes five minutes once a year to get them updated. Seriously, people, what are we doing? In terms of the dispatch, either AD sponsors and just get it done quick or debut random one of them Thank you. robert sparks robert sparks. Thank you for putting this together going through the effort to find a what I think is a general accepted middle ground. I think you should AD sponsor this document. I think it's in the right place I would caution very strongly again trying to form a standing group to do you should AD sponsor this document. I think it's in the right place. I would caution very strongly against trying to form a standing group to deal with documents like this Thank you. Thank you Thanks to keep it short, what robert ward Thank you, Elliot Thanks AID sponsor it. If Roman is willing to do it And if it fails, it's four week last call, then go on to the next things, but try it first as an AD sponsor Thank you. That makes sense I would say I'm happy with a but try it first as an AD sponsor. Thank you. That makes sense. christopher janz. I would say I'm happy with AD sponsor or a short-lived working group that don't really care but not Dev Nal Dev, you random, because we are continually producing 50% of useless"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "information and we should acknowledge that we should you know not have to do that Thank you. Thank you. Andrew Kaplan. I do think there'd be value in a long-lived working group for other process stuff in this area, but ironically, if this goes to that, then give it a very short mile milestone, so it's done quickly All right, tourless Thank you very much for the work. Maybe one thing, not dispatch feedback, but a section that tries to, you know pitch who can get what positive things are of what type of these things would be good, right? Because the fact that we do get IETF work done with 82% not using this does give kind of the hint that we may want to make it more flexible, but on the other hand, maybe, you know, the best use of it in the way that you see it or so would help to actually, you know, get more benefit out of them. For example, instead of having the deadlines, you're always trapping over, which is why people hate to update these things because things run slower than than they like. Maybe it's really tracking kind of the obstacles that you did over as swiftly as possible, which would help for the ADs, right? In my case, it was we didn't get feedback from that, you know, review working group or we had a problem with an INA registry. Yang wasn't working, the tooling wasn't working, right? So all these things that basically have you break these milestones, right, tracking those might actually be better to the outcome of, for example, then we go back to say, well, why does IETF take so long? right? Then these milestones instead of the obstacles overcome, would help us to understand that All right. Thank you. Thank you. We've got a pretty good cue now, so I think we're going to need to close it richard barnes. Yeah, hi. On the dispatch question, I think this is a fine thing to AD sponsor on the substance I would not get rid of milestones entirely. I agree that dates"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "are stupid and we should get rid of them because they're always inaccurate But I've recently had to deal with an SDO that had no notion of like what has a working group signed up to do beyond its very broad charter. So like having some notion of like what am I what should I expect this working group to do is I think we should hold on to that So, like, keep the milestones, get rid of the dates. So it would be my feedback on substance. Thank you Uh, Zahed Hi, you had. So I think on the list, you have things they think on the list you have things. I think all of them could be done I have the working groups that I actually do have my list all of them could be done like I have the working groups that that I actually do have my lessons with debts without deaths and all these things and and it is working group by working group basis they discuss with me they working groups that I actually do have milestones with debts, without deaths, and all these things, and it is working group by working group basis that discuss with me, and then we decide, like, as the idea, I decide what to do so in that list in the previous like what you do was like everything could be doable with whatever we have the one thing that is not doable is like you cannot charter right now and working without minus jobs Maybe that's something that you would like to change and say like, okay that requires some kind of updates in the process right now and working with minus jobs maybe that's something that you would like to change and say like okay that that requires some kind of updates in the in the process kind of thing and for that i would go for a de-sponsor for faster processing but rest of the things that you put up there I think, already do, I don't see like anything to be changed because I'm already doing it my current working group chairs and working groups. Thank you Lucas, I think we should do this work. I don't care where it's done. But I would ask that there's some junk in how to actually manage these undated milestones, and that maybe any work we do is support by tooling and code sprint and stuff like that and I'd like to volunteer some opinions work on those kinds of things. Yeah, and just to quickly respond to that My intent here is to put more flexibility in the process, that then we can change the Datatracker to make things more user-friendly So warren kumari, Google UPS ID I'll note that there are two different types of working groups Many of them are formed to do something and having a couple of, like, my milestones. So if you'll do this, you'll do this, you'll do this, then you'll shut down work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "But for others like maintenance working groups it doesn't make much sense for milestones. You can have chairs be like, we adopted this document added to the milestones we published it delete from milestones. That's busy work. I don't care where you do it but there should be flexibility. Thanks, yeah and to clarify, if I didn't say it, this would be on a per working group based that we would select it. Because for that exact reason Brian. So this discussion about the busy work thing came up, and that reminded me the area director has to approve the changes to them. I've never seen the area director not approve the changes to it. It's so much busy work for the area director to go and approve changes. I think we should take that off the area director can come and tell the chair hey, you're doing the wrong thing if they're weird maybe send them an email letting you know, but having the area director have to approve changes, that's been a data track issue. I've had to change area directors up weeks afterwards because if they don't see it immediately they don't get reminders it's it's pointless Yep. Thank you. Bob Hi, bob hinden. So I support this work. I think a d sponsor would be fine i think there's what I'm hearing. It seems like lots of people support it as a working group chair, this would be useful Thank you. All right, but I think I'm hearing as AD sponsor? for this um I'm Roman is, what? Sorry, I was going to see can you ask roman for yeah Yeah. Looking to see if Roman nods his head or not. Yeah, I mean, I'm willing to sponsor this. I don't know if we have consensus on all the details So my proposal would be, let's make a dedicated mail list so we could heard all of the conversation on it mostly because i'd like to get it off the working group mail list to get broader community consensus. Kind of watching that. I'm not convinced there's that much community on the working group mailing list and then we can use that to iterate and refine. That sounds ideal Thank you. All right. Thank you very much Thanks, David. Next is Lyndon Denver we're doing a little bit of a change because we're finally at the end of the gen topics"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:12",
    "text": "Good morning, so I'm changing the type of topics My presentation today, the purpose is really to get some feedback on this type of work. Where is the right? home for discussion? And also, I'm soliciting some comments and feedback to this proposal So this is about authenticating ideas encapsulation header. Next page So here's the little background And in, we have some drafts in the routing area is about how do we steer traffic through a backbone specifically for the multi-segment SD1 that for enterprises where they have branches far away from each other each of them have services hosted in the cloud and in between them they also have the IPESP in caps of data flow among each other So there's a desire to be able to steer those traffic through the cloud backbone So the approach to steer the traffic through the cloud backbone is adding encapsulation header with indicating where you want to enter the cloud gateway and where you want to exit. So you have ingress gateway you have egress gateway, and then you may have some explicit regions or routers to, nodes to traverse through the cloud backbone. So this shows like from A to B that you have encapsulation traffic and then you add the header from A to go through a gateway"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:01",
    "text": "2 and with indicating of where you want to go. So the traffic is itself is encapsulated. Next page, please As you see in the payload, the traffic from A to B is already in encapsulated, and it's a header, which is open which in normal case, like you don't need any kind of validation, you just send it to the Gateway 2 and the Gateway 2 will be able to look at the header like Geneva header and look at the sub-tlb's inclusion in them and then be able to traverse through the eGras router and send to the destination. However, there be will be some cases where that between the starting the source, CPE to the gateway, there may be some security risks or vulnerability so you want to add some kind of authentication However, you don't need to add authentication for every flow. You may only add the authentication for selective flows, a specific flow between the two points. So here we show that in this red point that do I have a pointer? No, it's okay. So basically showing that the, the authentication, basically generally by the source, CPE, and that validated by the Cloud Gateway. And this authentication code is not on every, flow, it's only a selective flow but to prevent any actor in the middle attack to recognize the flow which is not authenticated, so we, in this draft, we propose to have this field there, for the flow which need to be authenticated is a real authentication value. And for the flow, that you don't need to authenticate that you can"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "put a dummy value so the gateway will not authenticate those values And bear in mind that the actual payload has authenticated integrity check between two endpoints which is generated by A and validated by destination B Okay, next one In terms of authentication key distribution, there are several ways documented in the draft. One way is through a secure control channel, because for each site, enterprise side the CPE has IPSEC flow to the to the cloud and for the server terminated in the cloud and however for any routers, they have limited capacity for processing IPC encapsulation So, um, encryption so that they have like maximum 2 gig or maximum, whatever, number of flows And for the traffic between A to B which is encrypted already we don't need the cloud gateway to decrypt the traffic and re-encryp it at the end So, but they can use the existing control channel, secure control channel to distribute the key. Another method is through the established secure channel between the gateway and the CPE to exchange the authentication key. The third method, documented in the draft is reuse the existing IPSAC key and as an input to another function for the key derivation function to generate the key for the authentication code. Next page, please Okay, so the control plan basically, it is basic by the control plan dictate how many, which flow need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:01",
    "text": "do the authentication. Okay so, nice. So the main feedback main thing object of this I'm talking today is looking for feedback on where is the good place to discuss this topic. Thank you Okay looking for suggestions. paul wouters Thank you Paul Walthus, Security 80. Can you explain a bit what if this is not like one of possible solutions for the Nassar? proposal, that the Nassarboff is coming? later in the week? No, I actually don't know that off my head No? Okay maybe I can stop by your office hour to I actually don't know that off my head. No? Okay, maybe I can stop by your office hour today and then understand a little bit Sure, and one other solution could be that we give you a mailing list and we can talk about this more in the security area Okay, thank you jonathan hoyland is next jonathan hoyland, Cloudflare So I looked through the draft and I know this isn't a dispatch comment, but I'm very confused by the security model here Who holds the sequence? keys? Is it every single step along the path? The secret key is held by the managed by the controller Please remember that we're discussing not the details of the proposal but were to discuss yeah so controller. Please remember that we're discussing not the details of the proposal, but we're to discuss it. Yeah, so, yeah, thank you. So it's mainly for where to, where I should put this discussion, where's the home for this discussion? So the reason why I bring it up is because I think as proposed, it doesn't work, so if the if it if I'm right then we should dispatch it to nowhere because it doesn't work But if I'm not right, then I don't understand where the keys are. Okay, thank you. Maybe Kitch"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:00",
    "text": "Linda offline about that Kathleen. So in terms of dispatch, I'm not as familiar anymore with what existing working groups like because Geneva must be closed at this point Is there an existing one where this could be discussed? Because I think it's worth discussion. There is no security in Geneva itself. You rely on the IPSEC layer to do any integrity protection any authentication so you know I think you're looking to define a mechanism to add in security And I think that's worth discussion. Okay, thank you you watson ladd. watson ladd, Akamai I asked a question to Yoav in the chat which is, how much of a shoehorn do we need to strickx this into Ipsukami? It seems really similar in that you want to have a secure channel that applies to part of the package And your draft does mention AH So maybe that's a fit I'm not really confident in that Okay, I cannot quit here. We're really having a lot of trouble understanding you, Watson, unfortunately Oh, let me try again Is this better? Maybe right on the email list or something or put put in a comment there Yeah, Watson may be throwing a comment in the in the chance session because the acoustics at least at the front of the room here, are not that great great Okay, deb cooley. So I'm going to let michael richardson go before me because I want to go last Michael, go. michael richardson, what a control freak, wow the mistake we made with A.H back in 1995 was that we did not define the behavior when the spy number was unknown which means that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "AH is a header that you ought to just an extension header in V6 speak, that you ought to just skip if you don't know what it is. And if we had done that right then we would do using a h we would use a h when we did send and this problem that that ought to just skip if you don't know what it is. And if we had done that right and we would do using AH, we would use AH when we did send. And this problem that Linda is discussing would be much, much more clearly an AH IPSEC problem we didn't do that so effectively you need a new header that everyone involved has to know that if they don't have the keys, then they just skip it because it's okay, right? So to that extent, this is not an IPSEC problem because we basically made it out of scope. The question is that was asked was who has the keys for the IPSEC essay? And she said, told us, it was the SDN controller or something And so I would say you need to dispatch this if anywhere it needs to go to some SDN group SDN group that something that someone who deals with with software to networking. There's such a thing? There's no such group I don't know. I'm not that guy. I'm just saying that that's why it's why it's not an IP sector working group problem because effectively there's no up update to ICV2 that you're going to make and it's not really an ESP that you're going to define. Well, it kind of is, but it isn't so effectively what I'm saying is you can't dispatch at that direction You need to go to some direction of some, you know I don't know, like there was an I2 network security function working group at some point that it existed. I think it's dead now. But that's what I'm saying is that that's the direction I think it has to go Okay, thank you. Can I relay from Java? And Deb, jonathan hoyland. Yeah, yeah, go ahead. Thank you had a must have a quick. Yeah, I can I just Jabba? for Watson? Yeah, that's fine. So Watson ladd, I have poor confidence in this but this feels very similar to AH from IPSEX and we need a proper key negotiation mechanism"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "Okay So that's the same thing, right? So I think we're happy to give you a mail list and we can talk about what whether where it goes from here right I don't think we're prepared to dispatch this to IPSECME or anywhere else but we're happy to give you a mail list and we can talk about it Okay, but it sounds like it pretty clearly goes into security area, so. Until we decide it's not secure, and which can't you know. Right, good point Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much thanks very much and the uh final speaker is Sony. And let me stop sharing slides and allow Sony to share theirs Where did that go? So Sonny, you asked to share slides and then it looks like it disappeared again And we're not hearing any audio Okay, um Hello we see slides and we hear your voice Okay one sec So we're going to talk about the half-ur-I scheme"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "So, why are we trying to do this work? We thought that user info behavior is complete inconsistent across various software Um, of it will simply silently stream it, before passing it on to other software Browsers do this That's the main one that's the main one we found. Some will warn on it some will fail to parse it some will refuse to parse it and some will particular database they require it but this actually comes a problem because this is a bad API, it's in flagship it only supports username and password password So, and the password is in plain text in the URI We would like to remove this We want to like to remove the user info altogether and uh do that we need to recognize where user info is still used and to require today We don't believe the user info syntax can be solved salvaged We basically try to reuse user info for non-authentification and authorization purposes purposes And we ran straight into those inconsistent and yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:03",
    "text": "So we started looking deeper and that's how we found out the That's how we got here We tried to discuss this on the ART mailing list Not much happened there Obviously there is still something we need to figure out, like We are ready? think there should be some sort of We really think there should be some sort of integration with credential storage system-wide, application specific, or something in the language runtime runtime We don't really know know we don't really know how to advance this work We're thinking a work group but we don't know Great. Justin is joined the queue queue queue All right, justin richer. Is this a problem that actually needs to be solved?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:00",
    "text": "So I've, in the last 30 seconds, skim through the draft. And it has a bunch of examples in it, which basically amount to moving the user portion of a URI out to a separate parameter and then shoving the rest of the original URI tactic onto the end using a new syntax and I'm not convinced that this type of shuffling of existing data is actually going to solve a problem that people actually have And we can't just stop using the user info section of the authority section of URIs. Like that's, we're not just going to turn that off. So that's still going to be around even if this also exists to do it in a different way So I'm not convinced it solves a problem that we have, and I'm not convinced it actually solves that problem that it proposes. So my suggestion for dispatch, would be nothing Okay, thank you, Justin. We have other opinions on this I think this probably applies largely to the new Witt area, right? Daniel Oops, disappeared again All right it's pretty quiet here. Do we have any opinions that? oh, nick doty, good Just in the nick of time sorry. Thanks I was hoping for a little more explanation of this last point. I don't understand what this integration with wallets or password managers would be with a URI scheme or do I not understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "I'm confident I don't understand, so please explain um with a URI scheme? Or do I not understand? I'm confident I don't understand, so please explain. So basically when you have a we're going to go back this slide, Archie In the case of a data specifically, you depending on the database, you want have the URI as the API So if you want to use say, search certificates, public case, that kind of stuff you kind of change can't Um, or if you don't want to put the password in the URI, you'll ask can't So that's the idea would be true See if there's some sort of interest in a language level API that integrates with the with this URI Okay. I'm sorry, I'm on Daniel Yes, this is Dan Smallen Cable Labs. So I'm going to make some bold assumption that I truly understand this. But in order to kind of test those assumptions, I'm going to cite the dark literature of RFC 39 going to make some bold assumptions that I truly understand this. But in order to kind of test those assumptions, I'm going to cite the dark literature of RFC 3986. So in section 7.6 semantic attack it seems that the real sort of problem that exists and the example that's in there is that one could spoof, you know, a set of subdomains or even more or less a full URL in that sort of user ID"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "or user info rather subcomponent immediately prior to the actual URL. And I think that you know in my opinion you know the goal of this work is to essentially solve that semantic attack process And so I do believe that that is, in fact, a problem. The reason being that, you know, with the syntax being essentially unconstrained, one could put really anything in there. And so you know, some sort of further constraints may be warned Again, I don't think that it's worth discussing the particular technical approach, but I do see this as a problem. And so I would push that maybe there should be some sort of working group on this, perhaps Okay, any further thoughts? I'm thinking this is probably in the WIT area. Do we have one of the ADs there that has an opinion, perhaps? Evidently not Yeah, I can can you hear me? Oh yes, thank you francesca palombini, as with the D can you hear me? Yes, thank you. francesca palombini, as with ADI, I would be interested in hearing more, more features more discussion, more people in interested. I haven't heard many people today before making any decision Yeah, there is a question are you rise with or art? That's a good question But yeah, we should probably find a venue for polling more feedback and see if there is it But yeah, we should probably find a venue for polling more feedback and see if there is any interest to discuss this and continue this Got a couple more people in the queue now, so thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:00",
    "text": "Martin? Yeah martin thomson it's not clear to me whether this is a generic URI problem or a problem that's specific to particular types of URIs or particular schemes which complicates this considerably The sort of use of user info in HGDP, Your Eyes, is based schemes, which complicates this considerably. The sort of use of user info in HGDP, your eyes, is basically dead in many ways and exactly as summarized, but that's not true for other types of schemes And it looks like this is an attempt to solve a problem for HGP So that group might be engaged in the work. I do however, see your eyes as broadly belonging more to the art area when it comes to that So if it is a more general thing than art some broadly belonging more to the art area when it comes to that. So if it is a more general thing than art somewhere would need to get involved I'm lacking clarity on the problem based on the draft and the presentation though Okay, and then Mary is next. Yeah, Mia Kulimit here. So just listening to the conversation, I don't think we understand the problem well enough yet. So I don't think this is ready to dispatch So basically, or to say it the other way around, I would dispatch this to a site meeting and have more discussion about the problem Thank you is needed I'm not quite sure what the venue for that discussion should be Any thoughts? Go ahead, Mary. A site meeting, they should just organize a site meeting, get some interested people, those people who spoke up at the queue and have more discussion there Hi, Roman Giniu, this is not my area, so I'm looking at Zahad and kind of Francesca Is there a Witt specific list?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:00",
    "text": "that might be helpful here? And I would just point out procedurally side meetings have no official standing in this process so we cannot dispatch officially anything to side meetings because they aren't a thing in the IETF standards process so there is so which area at IETF.org. That's the general WIC mailing list and also I would rather see it discussion in the mailing list that can be, you know pointed back to and recorded rather than some meetings. So just just to add to what francisco arias, you are there with another video did so i think the wheat area could be used as an announcement, but the discussion should happen separately. And obviously, we can give it to a mailing list if they need but I actually agree with me Maria like this need to be socialized and discussed to understand better so mailing list we can create an onward list if they need but i actually agree with myria like this need to be socialized and discussed to understand better so mailing list we can create a non-working room mailing list for this one to facilitate this one So if that is what is needed, I can create, I can help with that Okay. Thank you very much. Sonny, does that help you? Yes, thanks Okay thank you we're at the just about at the end of the session I want to take a minute for Roman to speak. Actually, let me and then I want to just kind of go through a quick summary of the action Okay, quick summary of the actions Items one and two, expert review in hybrid iona It sounded like it was a new working group, maybe for those two topics combined Gender representation AD sponsored by Roman List management procedures sounded like it needed a working group hopefully a short duration one, but that's aspirational, as I see said Experimental RFCs, it sounds like it was perhaps a boff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "in creation of mailing list to discuss further Milestones AD sponsored lightweight height hetero authentication We'll try and find an existing working group, but it sounds like it needs more discussion within the second area to decide exactly where that lands And the last one, it sounds like it needs more working, more mailing discussion probably on the on the on that lands. And the last one, it sounds like it needs more working, more mailing list discussion probably on the, on a WIT general list, at least initially So thank you very much. And Roman, please Can you quickly reconfir? you said for the normcom gender topic it's 80s AD-sponsored because that's, I was a lot of discussion about creating working groups I'm not sure that was as clear. Oh, I'm sorry I had two notes here and working, yeah that's exactly working group circle then I I I I I I wrong, yes, that should be, that should be a working group Thank you for correcting me on that so first I want to thank cut of the chairs for facilitating all of this and frank that wrong yes that should be that should be a working thank you for correcting me on that so first I want to thank cut of the chairs for facilitating all of this and Francesca who is remote but help was the response to really help pull this together. As we mentioned, in IETF 119 it is an experiment for us to combine all of the dispatch dispatch working groups into one place with the idea to do it once with as large of an audience as possible but we are running this as an experiment and we promised we would do it exactly kind of twice and make some decisions going out from here So the IESG welcomes all feedback that please send it to IESG at IETF on what you thought about this particular approach because we would like to decide for IETF 121, whether we go back to the old way of having lots of different dispatch groups across areas or we either we continue with this approach or something in between Thanks All right, thank you. And we were adjourned"
  }
]
