[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:03",
    "text": "We only don't have sometimes Yes. Yes. Is the time of the hour? Yep. It's Hello, everybody. It's the top of the hour. I don't even have to lean into the mic. I barely even have to raise my voice. Do you wanna talk? I wanna talk. Is the clicker right there. Okay. Firstly, thanks all for being here. As per normal, the, if you are a new kid, please read it. And if you're not so new here, please follow it God. It's just but, you know, behaving ourselves. I think we can all do that. And then we you know, obviously, have the notes really well, I would from messages reading this one as well and Yeah. Then we have peace and calm. Which is all good. The meetings, obviously, Ding, recorded. If you haven't signed into meet echo, please do so so that you can get in the queue, etcetera, because we do use that queuing system So, yeah, our agenda, we're gonna do a bit of an agenda bash in case anybody wants add anything to the agenda, we'll be giving brief updates from the area directors, and then we'll be getting an update from our routing area direct shares and then we want to talk about the working group agenda items on the agendas and have a bit of a discussion about that. And following that, Sue will be giving us a presentation. So, Adrian, you are in the queue. Thank you, Adrian Farrell. This is just like a meta agenda bash."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "I know that IETF meeting scheduling is Really hard. Areas meetings are a brilliant way of finding out what's good and normal. Across a whole area without doing everywhere, and you're conflicted with security area open meeting at the moment to which there's no way I would have gone in hell, but but I'm sure that there are some people, I can see Donald here, who who might have considered that. And, even the ADs might have that as a good shopping, expedition. So Next time. Yep. Good input. Thank you. Very good input. Anybody else, want to add anything the agenda or is the agenda sufficiently bashed Okay. I think that the agenda is sufficiently dashed. We're gonna be giving some brief updates from the area of directors. No real slides there. I mean, yeah, So, John, would you like to go first with any updates from your side? Yeah. So, main thing from me is I would like to welcome, Well, actually, I was gonna say our newest, routing area, sheriff, but she's already a routing area chair, but Jing Jin Koo is gonna be, the 3rd cochair of LSR. Thank you very much. And go ahead. Stand up. Everyone knows who she is, but there she is. So, Yeah. It's, we've been looking for a a new chair for a while, and you can step forward, and we really appreciate if you wanna say anything, go ahead. I'm very happy and honored for the opportunity to serve the community, and thank you all for the support. And, hopefully, people are active in ARR or already know who I am. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "Yep. Jim you up next. I'm the last cock Yep. I actually don't have anything specific. My working groups have worked very well this week, which I'm Most appreciative all of them, we're making progress on lots of things. So but it'll as always, I'm open anybody has any issues to please come see me. And from my side, I also want to my working groups this week, everything has been going splendidly. I also wanted to say Adrian Farrell has agreed to take interim chair for MPLS. Thank you very, very much, Adrian. And I look forward to all the good work you're gonna do for the short time you've given me a interim chair. I may try and convince you afterwards to lengthen this, but I don't know if I'll succeed. But But thank you. Thank you very much. And if you want to say a few words, you are more than welcome to. Otherwise, at least stand up and anybody knew who doesn't know who Adrian is. Is probably not in this room. You'll get to know him. Yeah. And that's it from my side, Jordan. You wanna edge. Yeah. Actually, I thought of 2 things to add. One is that, Andrew's comment just now reminded me of the, story of the, the person who said I'd like to say a word and stood up and said, plethora. And the chair said, thank you. That means a lot. But but that was just Ad Lib. You know, the other thing the thing I really wanted to say was, we we we keep changing the format of this meeting. You know, we've we feel that usually, we should have an area meeting to, you know, bring together"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "frequent contributors, and so we can talk about area business sometimes we've had, working groups report out. Know, sort of quite a bit earlier. When I started coming to these meetings, there was always, every single working group would go down the the line and and report what their items were, and it it tended to be kind of a just a version of them quickly reading through their document list. And then sitting down again then we shifted to a format where we would ask a few working groups to report out in detail. And I thought that was that was more satisfying to me anyway. And, you know, we talked among ourselves while we were organizing for this meeting and said, do we need to do that? And decided, no. It it doesn't, you know, it seems like we've done that exercise within the last few years, and we don't need to doing it every time. We should do it, you know, when we charter a new group or have, like, a large new work item or something like that that we need to We need to raise the visibility of but, this is all a long winded way of saying that if you have suggestions, for how we can, you know, make your area meeting work better for you. Please, you know, you can use the mic during, you know, now during the open mic time or speak with any of us afterward That's it. So shall we go ahead then? Yes. First next one on here, Ginger is we're now gonna get a bit of a report on the routing area directed, Daniel, do you want us to hang you control, or should we drive from the side? If you could drive, that'll be good, please. Okay. That's perfect. Oh, and I I forgot to mention this. Denium is our new secretary for routing area director. Thank you. Very much for your willingness to help out and join us in us. Until the number. Yes. I'm so lucky, Andre, for all the work that he did"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "Yeah. So take it away. Take it away. Great. Hi, everyone. My name is Daniel Enriquez. Next slide please. It's with the guy Right. So just a a brief recap, as part of the reaping director, essentially is 2 functions that are being served. So the first is for reviewers to review all documents submitted to the ISB AESG for publication that have a routing significance and to assist ADs with judgment issues, when requested Now as part of the routing directed, they are currently 43 routing experts that have been appointed by the ADs. And the types documents that they'll review include and routing drops as they pass through IT at last call. Reviews of other routing related drops at IETF, the last call, an earlier review of any routing area working group documents, before last call. In terms of personnel changes as a German Andrew, alluded to Luke has been, is stepping down. So thank you, Luke, for your your great work and and great handover. And I'll be taking over as a co chair. On this slide, I just wanted to include a link to the routing directory, Wiki page, This includes, a list of all the documents from currency under review. As well as the charger, which is quite important. In the next week, we're gonna be cleaning up the the Wiki page because it was a little bit bit behind and also reflects some of the pay throughs that I'm I'm gonna be mentioning in the next slide. The next slide is Right. Sosons, IPF 117, where we assigned 13 documents for review. 6 have been completed. And the average completion time has been 14 and a half days. Currently, we have 14 documents that have been assigned and are under review next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "As chairs, we we really focus on allocating documents to reviewers and We try to do this in the most timely manner possible. So going forward to try improve the process. One of the things we're going to be aiming for is to try get and accept for a reject from each review as soon as possible. So after assignment, we'd really appreciate it for viewers. Good they accept if they're wanting to do their review, or rejected if they they simply don't have the time or they feel the expertise isn't suited to a particular document. As chairs, you're also gonna be hearing a lot more from us we're gonna be following up into resolved Can you accept or reject the document? We see the the deadlines approaching, do you feel you're gonna be able to hit that deadline or not? Do you need to adjust it, etcetera? Next slide, please. One slide change terms of reviewer assignment So one of the issues that that I've noted is We run through this in order where documents assigned to a reviewer for review. The reviewer doesn't acknowledge that assignment for a prolonged period of time, and then it rejects it or we simply cannot get hold of that reviewer. So going forward, what we're gonna be doing is each time we assign document for review, it will be accompanied by a male, by myself, or the co chair, to inform you that this document has been assigned if you do accept or reject 2nd week, each review, we given 7 days to get an extent or reject an assignment is we don't hear from a reviewer for 7 days or presume they can't review the documented pricing. And will reassign And just to remind at the bottom there, you can see in data tracker, there's a except for reject button, essentially what we're asking you to do."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "And that's a probably Okay. If you don't mind, I'll add a comment which is it's much better if you're not gonna be able to accept the assignment to just reject it right away. There's, you know, no moral failing if you rejected, rejected, Not a problem. We all have birthday schedules and don't always have time to do the review. So If you, reject early, it lets, the chairs move on to, the next person in the queue, and it's much better that way. Thanks a lot for the presentation. The Anyone got any questions? For denim. Okay. Nothing went in the queue. So Okay. The the next item, we're actually hoping to get quite a bit of discussion on this. It's something that we've noted recently in some of the working groups where we've got agenda items appearing on the agendas where there has been absolutely no discussion of the document on the agenda in one particular case, documents appear on the agenda that literally did not exist. It hadn't been uploaded yet. And so we wanna talk a little bit about this. As I said, there's there's been a noticeable increase in documents on agendas that have no discussion on the working group lists and the the working group time in person is is limited, and we need to use it in the most efficient way to help move work forward So We have a bit of a proposal that we'd like some discussion on And we're basically saying the draft should only end up on working group agendas that have had discussion"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "on the mailing lists prior to the working group agenda item cutoffs. So effectively, we wanna see some discussion on the mailing list of the documents, before they consume floor tile. Then In addition to this, if working groups want to bring in external presentation, of people. We've seen this a couple of times where they've seen something that they've thought is worth the working group hearing, etcetera, we'd like to have those slide decks sent to the working group in advance for some discussion so that people can take that and absorb it and have a meaningful discussion On the floor, We could have done this. Yes. I'm definitely I was just gonna add the comment that anybody would like to point out that we fail to do that with the invited presentation at the end of this, meeting slot. You know, Mia Maxima Colpa, We could have also done this kind of on a ad hoc basis for certain working groups within the area, but we discussed it among ourselves and thought that it would be forbidden to have kind of a harmonious policy that covered all the working groups, within the area. Hence, I was bringing it here for discussion. And we'd like to hear some discussion. And if people have got questions and comments, we really feel that your input is always welcome. And I see some people in the q, q So this is so I wanna make just one one comment as well. The the one of the things that we discussed as ADs is that know, what we're trying to achieve here is that it it would be really nice, in a working group session if more than just the author of the document, new one else we were talking about. So I've seen that many times where"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "these documents come up, especially the 00 version where nobody's actually read the document, and it's very hard to have any kind of discussion or or even comment on the document in in the, face to face time. So what we're trying to avoid. Just to give you some background. Yeah. Anthony is first. Anthony, liquid. This seems like common sense. And it seems a little bit surprising that we don't have this policy in place. And I guess my question is, should we not also consider all the areas not just routing. Well, we're the routing area directors. So we didn't want to stray too far from our patch. But it's a perfectly good point. Yeah. Some Jeff hires. This is policy. So this is a, you know, think about the exception cases rather than make a recommendation. There are drafts that go through groups such as IDR, you know, that are largely, hey, we want to encode this thingy from some other working group in your call. And I think on, you know, segment routing stuff is an example for especially beach BLS. Most of these things are Representing this thing. It's a trivial encoding. Hey. Who an IDR actually is following this work in SRR? Or spring. So think about how that should manifest here. So, okay, thank you for don't get up yet, Adrian, because I'd actually like to to have a conversation and, so just a series of short speeches. Or maybe you were gonna getting up to answer, Jeff. I don't know. But what I wanted to to to respond with is, see now if been bantering, and I've forgotten my point No. Is is, Yeah. I think that's I I I think the meta point is that I at least don't think we want to you know, make this such a stern policy that nobody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "that there's no wiggle room for chairs to exercise their discretion and make That would be silly. Then we should have shell scripts and not chairs. But, But I I think that even in the case that you just raised, That sounds like something that's foreseeable that, like, when you're constructing you know, your your agenda, you should be able to say, oh, Yeah. I mean, mostly. Like, sometimes you have a diving catch. Right? It's Tuesday, you're at xworkinggroup and you say, Oh, that really should have been presented in my working group. You know, and then you'll just, like, right in the moment, say, please come and present, you know, two slides to make sure we're aware of your encoding. That's fine, but I think the ask is still even if it's like a liaison over from another working group, Great. Flag it to your mailing list. Right. And I think one of the things that makes that a challenge them not picking out any specific draft here. When things are being flagged a part of it is sometimes, you know, since we're not aware of know, the items. We don't know that the item in question is not actually work that's happening in the other work grew. It's like we're we're being asked to stick metrics food inside of the segment routing Tlv here. And, you know, it was like, somebody that finally pays attention out of that working group says What are you doing? We're not doing this stuff. This doesn't belong here. So This is obviously a cherished, you know, coordination problem. That it's being raised partially because it overlapped this point. Okay. I'd like to discuss this with you you know, more later, but we don't have to use floor time for it. Ettrian Yeah. Thanks, Adrian Farrell. Basically plus one to what Jeff said. And, you know, should not nest. So And maybe on a mailing list, rather than on the mailing list covers Yeah. It covers a lot of it. Although, like I said,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "I'd still like to see it at least flagged to the mailing list of the working group in Quest generation. Yeah. And and possibly what underlies this is in constructing the working group agenda, work out what it is that needs to be talked about and why and how and and And then all of this goes away. Right. I mean, this is always the tension in kind of discussion, isn't it? It's, know, on the on one end of the spectrum is like Okay. Chairs try to be good chairs. As long as you do that, we don't have to have any rules at all. On the other hand, having shared a number of things, that wasn't very helpful to me. And sometimes it's helpful to have, some you know, if not rules, then very firm guidelines to help me do my job. And that's what we're attempting to do here. And the reason we're having this con as a conversation and not just an email. Is, in case we've gotten it wrong in some way that we didn't notice Yeah. Yeah. Thanks, dad. Tony Lee is up. Thank you. Tony Lee, TBR Co Chair, I've got a somewhat reverse problem, folks in my working group tend not to do much on the mailing list. And they seem to be much happier commenting in person. Which only happens when we are giving a presentation. So this seems like a chicken and egg problem. How do I get around this? I I I don't know. Chair harder. No. That's I'm I'm I'm not serious. Yeah, it's it it is a problem. Different communities have different, you know, ways of working and if your community's way of working is really to do everything in per and then is what it is. You're you're the chair. Use your discretion. Make your"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "working group productive, kind of what Adrian said. All of these are guidelines and not hard and fast rules, but I mean, yeah, mailing lists, soccer, just we haven't come up with anything better. Yeah. I mean, I just think just to add to what John said there, as as we've said, I think repeatedly, these are these are guidelines. There's simply guidelines to to try and get that additional discussion because as I said, we have seen A lot of times where documents are coming that nobody's read and It it does eat a lot of full time then you get agenda items that fall off that could have actually, you know, used real agenda types. So get simply the goal. But your discretion as the chair Roland. Yeah. Roland bless Kiete. I I fully understand the the idea behind that. I was asking myself whether it is lovely a difference to make between the RT g, w or g, like, I mean, that should be open for new work. And I try to bring new work to the IETF and that could become harder in case, you can't present that because was, there was no discussion on the mailing list. So I think Sometimes you should have at least have some slots available for even if it's only 5 minutes to peep make people aware that that works much better in, in meetings than just writing an email till they're mailing this. Okay. Here's the cool and new stuff. No one reads it and and even though I presented it 1 year ago. So there's two people not understanding it. And so raising interest is not that easy. And I I would actually Yep. So I'm in favor of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "prioritizing the real work that the working group has to do. And so I fully understand if charter items have priority, but don't exclude the possibility for new work. And running what what I will say is just a a comment on that. And I I fully see the point 100%. I think that by ensuring that where we've got drafts that or getting discussion versus troughs that simply aren't and adjusting the agenda item accordingly, also think we'll end up making more space in that limited working group time, for items like what you've raised here because at the moment, the agenda is getting really full and you're getting certain items on there. They're not getting any discussion. You end up eating up all that time and then those opportunities are reduced. I think it's something that we do need to think about, and I'll certainly chat with my fellow ideas and you know, as we write the guidelines we'll be cognizant of that. Okay. Hi, Luberger. I'm really happy I'm following one because that was my second point is is that we really want to not exclude new people and new thoughts and new ideas And I'm a little worried about the second how the phrase your phrasing of the second bullet. And I would say if you could modify that to, instead of external presentations, say new drafts. Or new drafts and external presentations. And I think a few separate points. I think that the external presentations are we've we've got some items where for example, in one of the working groups, they saw someone had done something call with Tavino and they wanted to bring that in to share it. That would be external. So new drafts and external, I think, they, the wording there was addressing the one case that probably needs to address both cases. That that's a separate is is is is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "probably better. I don't I'm not in a lot of working groups that have time for but that type of external information. But worrying about new drafts, new ideas, and in particular, new contributors, and allowing for them and giving them space, I think, is is like super critical. In fact, you know, we all know new people are the hardest thing to bring in. Yes. Okay. Yeah. I I I'd like to say that, you know, sort of the the spirit behind us, we may have got it wrong. Is I think about really 2 things. One is, you know, with with 0s, especially, and and this is more like you know, not not the brand new idea that needs to be socialized. It's just, you know, don't don't submarine your idea until the last day and then you know, pop it out, you know, right as the does cut off hits and then expect to get useful work done. It's It's not a good way of of working and and, you know, Everybody's deadline driven and This is basically a way of saying, let us help you be deadline driven in a way that's more productive for everyone. And then as usual, I forgot my second point. I I gotta tell you. I I actually love the suggestion or I don't think it'd make a rule. That 00 or new material that's not been discussed needs to be submitted a week in advance. You know, I'm I'm you know, week before Monday, you know, uh-uh, and gift for there's so tie there's time for adequate review before the meeting. I think that's a fantastic idea. I really like that one. And I I I think we'll I think we'll have a follow-up discussion on on, you know, we'll we'll schedule a a working group chairs chat. And after we've had a chance to iterate on this and, you know, then have a follow-up seemed like. I mean, this is not just a working group shares meeting. This is an area meeting, and potentially touches anybody who contributes to the area, which is why we wanted to 1st float it here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "Yeah. I'm sold. On on that one. The one added point I'd like to bring up is something. I think it was either I think it was Chris not AC, but he's co chairing, who said they're going they were thinking about running experiment where they would stop the time early to leave a few minutes for discussion. So I ran with their idea and have that run now 3 sessions with that approach. And I really like it. I think it's really helpful. So steal a little bit of time so that the timer expires but then you have a few minutes left over for discussion. And it was not my idea, but I I've run with it, and it seems to be working really well. That's good practice. Lou, Lou, I just wanna just just a comment from my perspective on the 00 drafts. I I I guess one of the things we're trying to say is the with a 00 draft. The first time that the working groups heard of it shouldn't really be as a presentation in in the working group meeting. I mean, just an announcement on the mailing list that, hey. I've got this really new call idea, and here's document, here's a pointer, is to some degree discussion. Before the meeting. Right? So, because otherwise, it's just to come along I present this new idea. Nobody's really got time to think about it. We could have done that earlier, and that's kind of what we're trying to achieve. That, that allows us to at least have a little bit more input in the working group session itself. If that makes sense. It it does. And we we've done that sometimes. I I can't we're perfect and do it all the time. It's probably in the minority that we've done that. But it's a we've seen it always met with dead air. So I really like the idea, and I have not had that one before or done that one, but, the idea of saying send your presentation a week before. And I, you know, it's a chance it's it's there's still a barrier to entry to opening a document and reading slides are less. So I think it's great. I Yep."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "Soon. Does this policy restrict interims. Sometimes what we've done is we've had a new draft syndrome. It's announced as high. We're gonna give new drafts a chance to, get online. People know it's there. You're not in person. Your, picking up chance for people to try out their thing. Do you want new drafts announced on the list of it a week for. We do that. We usually have our agenda. Set up that, but how firm do you wanna be on that one? Sue, thank you very much. I don't think that's something that we actually considered, and this is this is really why we we like say should like this because it brings things to our attention. I think we'll we'll talk about that amongst selves. Obviously, I think that even going into an interim if there is some notification of something to the people actually come and you know, can look through and go, well, I've seen this. I wanna go and discuss it. For my perspective is is helpful to actually encouraging people to come to the interims. But I think we'll have a bit of a discussion on that. And then revert back you on it, but Thank you. That's a really good point. I think I missed. Yeah. Yeah. So AC Lindum Levin. I just saw a couple things I'm gonna say. We we used to have a separate deadline for 00graphs. Remember? Where it was before the the the absolute deadline. So may we and the other change that I might like to see I would like to see, of course, my list doesn't get that much traffic would be for not just the working group documents, but any document for LS sar to go to the list. That I think that would be useful. You know, if somebody"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "submits one that has a, you know, you know, if the right, you know, that it goes to the list and it kicks everybody's you know, brain in, Right. I I'm Unclear about what you're saying. Alright? I'm saying when somebody published some Yes. Yeah. On on the string LSR. LSR hyphen. Yeah. A lot label switch router, I guess. But, Right. How how about you you can come up with a reg x that match is on somebody's, you know, somebody's name hyphenlsr hyphen, you know, and and and and and And if if the person is named the draft right, it's it's gonna go to the list. Right now, if it's a working group document in somebody republishes it, it goes to the list automatically. Right. But I mean, but I I periodically look at them, but if it's something I I'm not that excited about. I kinda let a sleeping dog. Why? I look at it and I say, You know? They gonna ask for to present this, but invariably, me doing that, it they do anyway, you know, but but delay anyway. And we have a lot of people that are passionate a boat, a boat, working on drafts. But it's usually their draft. Yeah. What we need is more people that are past it about reviewing and and and in all fairness, we have some really good reviewers. But it would be good to get more discussion. It's always the same people that are doing common contracts. I will point out that data tracker does have a feature where you can set, like, a a watch list and you can, like, give it red x's that you wanna show up on your dashboard. Oh, but, is for the 90% of the people in the room that don't constantly use data tracker as a dashboard. That doesn't help as much as the other thing. I'm I'm not sure if you can get it to also, like, kickoff email to you because that would be sort of a an interim step The the only thing I'm concerned about with your suggestion is it is a heuristic. You might end up with getting label switched routers landing on the LSR mailing list. But it may may be, you know,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "And for all I know, there already is a data tracker feature now that lets you you know, get those emails sent to you. But it's sort of in generally, a good idea, and we should, like, look into the tooling and see what's possible. When it gets close to the ATF, I always start looking. See what people are submitting. But I don't even like, if it's not If it's more than a month away, I don't even expect new drafts to come Yeah. I think we we'll we'll definitely have a discussion and talk to the tooling. I don't understand anybody here involved in tooling. He would like to make comment, but otherwise, we will check to them and come back, Yeah. Okay. So for RTCWNC, we do get a lot of loss 00 draft the RTCWC also sort of serves as the dispatch function team, working group for the whole routing area. And for us, we do try to prioritize we actually try to power prioritize all the working group document update 1st. And then so something discussed second And then if it's like a brand new, and we put them, I if time or loss. And for those, a new officer of a 00 draft. Even in the email, you say please communicate your idea on the list. It might be challenging for them. So, I guess at shares, we will try to do a better work to help them, you know, how have them to say, oh, How can you communicate this thing? On the list. They may now even have a crew. Yeah. Yeah. So I suggest, you know, we don't make this a hard requirement is probably a recommendation. At least for us, that's probably Yeah. I I I think it's a very firm recommendation, though, and and maybe we need to have a longer discussion with you offline if you think that Like, It seems to me that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "that really almost any author should at least be able to send an email to the mailing list that says you know, deer, routing area working group, We have published the 00 Draft. Please take a look. That I share, I guess, we can make sure that will happen in the future. Yeah. Lars. Lars's like a data trick or power user, jumping you. Thank you, Tony. If you use that feature in the data tracker, there is a on the bottom that says, send me email when any of these drafts see new revisions. And then you get an email. And you can even pick which email address it goes to. Cool. Thank you. Thank you. That's a revision. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But That has been done forever. Tony P. So I had to be and missed a lively meeting with a change. So the first thing is, I look for polite term, her brain, I can't force a discussion Right? And very often, I have an update on the draft. So people just crank out the new version. It's very interesting. To so I can force it. Interesting. But I don't think, you know, it's in the here and not there. Second, yeah, I'm all for it. Right? We should get the time frame. It should get, you know, the material and not present with other draft as a policy. Absolutely. If you want more to say participation, people on the drafts, lively participation, make the blooding author's list longer. Okay. This is now such a big forum. This is not like five people cranking out stuff. This is becoming big exercises. Make it a page long. Like, any reasonable standard. Okay? That's the simplest thing to get more people, getting exciting work on it rather than then you got me some, you know, pure comps. Interesting. And I'd be interested in, like, offline feedback or whatever about whether other people think that like like like like just taking any back pressure away from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "author list link will actually get us, That's more generally generous. Well, that basically makes you the second page, you know, draft. I mean, look at like big height. Your standards look at like old ATM standards and all, but those those are heavy four hundred pages stuff that was running the world in the studio's world. Right? Those are those are page long of contributors. Look at today's modern science papers, right, teams of pages of people. It's complex stuff. There's a lot of people. People want recognition. And we have these notes. It's just elbowing thing. Costers, nothing. I I I will say, Tony, I I also find that that feedback very interesting and I would say to everybody in here. If you've got more feedback like that, I'd certainly be interested to hear about it. I'm sure the rest of the IESG would be quite interested to hear this too. And I would encourage you know, you guys to let us know if that is how you feel. You can go the opposite way and say one author per company. I think you should just open it and make it a page. Okay. Yeah. We we don't participate as companies Let me remind you. Yeah. Please do another discussion. Las Vegas, I really didn't think I would go twice to a microphone, this group. So so we we've had situations in the past I forgot which area is where the front page of a draft was basically used to indicate corporate support. And and and it was more many more than 5 on a document that had many fewer than five pages. And and the the reason was simply that to to show that Right? And and that is sort of a problem that we would reenter maybe if we open it all up, but that it is a continuous discussion. And and We should have Can I can I ask? Yeah. On that draft, with the, you know, more than twenty people on the front page."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "Was there, like, a tremendous amount of engagement on the mailing list and in the working group in discussing it. Wasn't in my area. I only saw it when it hit the ISG. Sorry. Yeah. And I I I also just wanna kind of add to what laws are seen. One of the things that I I have seen is people putting 20 authors on the page And in one particular case, asking one of those people to come and present the draft that he was on the front page of. And within about 3 minutes of the presentation, you realize that the guy was presenting hadn't read the draft himself. And it was being used clearly as a build up support to show that there is support for the draft. So there is a tension here, and I think that It is something that we are constantly discussing. There was a lot of discussion about it. And we welcome feedback and know, we're gonna see if we can flack the balance somehow. Yeah. So you can go both ways. Sorry jumping in, but, I mean, it's a very relevant discussion for the future of this whole thing exercise. It can completely take any value from the auto list padding that we have now. Right? Is used as a tool, and we all know it's being played. Right? So all of a sudden, like, yeah, well, everybody have a page, whoever cares, right? There's a page of Alter. It may go the other way that it becomes even more competitive. Right? Look, I have a really a page full. But then what we need to do is to put objective standards who is an author. And we have to put those drafts on the gate and have a gate his story, which, of course, can be gained again. Every game can be played. Know, we just have to make the game harder and more objective. And make aware that if we catch people, there are consequences. Right? No perfect solution, but what we have now Thank sneak one you, Tony. I think it's in. I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "I a lot of times, I mean, it depends on the draft in in the matter of consensus building and combining drafts The five offer list doesn't make any sense because you have gone through a lot just to get the two drafts merged. All of a sudden push everybody off after that big effort I'd rather fight with the ISG on the number of offers than open it back up, the consensus that took a long time to gain. Yeah. And just just just one comment on on that. When I've looked at what the the current Recommendations draft says there is you know, in in the case of they're being more than 5 authors, which is what the current document says, there are 2 options. You can appoint editors or you can potentially get an override to have more authors on the document. But if you go beyond the 5 author limit then there needs to be a justification. And I think that the justification of mergers on documents is a perfectly suitable justification where it becomes a problem is when the justification in the shepherd right up or from the chairs, etcetera, comes back and says, Well, because the authors wanted it that way. That does not qualify as a justification. So That's a quote. Yes. That is an actual quote out of a out of a document that had a number of authors. And so Yes. There are obviously cases where they need to be more than 5 in the cases of mergers and then anybody is denying that. But I think that there has to be some kind of you know, limit on have you actually given a proper justification for that and it's not a case of, well, because we want it. Donna Dunparter."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "I'm I'm gonna phrase this weirdly in reverse. Please bear with me. If by allowing or making it easier to be on an author list of a draft slash something we come in RC. Has the well, if if if that is a effect of of changing this, just making it easier to become an author there is a effect of this that I would very much like to see, which is it will work against the practice of people getting bonuses for getting their name which I think is a very counterproductive practice. And if it's easier to get your name on the document, that will hopefully make this practice less likely to keep it working. I know this is very tangential to this. I wanted to bring it up anyway. Right. I think you just said if we allow everybody to print their own money, then we'll have rampant inflation. Yes. Laws. Welcome. Again, yeah. I should I should come to this meeting more often. This is really actually not as bad as I thought. What I what I meant what I meant say though is, I mean, the the word author sort of implied that it's a person that's writing words. Right? It also doesn't mean you're on the front page. It means you have written and and oftentimes significant text for the document. So We have cases where many more people than 5 have written significant of text for document, and that would be exactly the argument to make, right, why this particular doc even needs that expansion, but you know, we, we, we, have that limit for a reason and and and we we need to entertain carefully whether we wanna We've, we've, you know, we've seen internet drafts where the first page on the old ASCII rendering was just names and affiliations. Yep. 20. And nothing wrong with that, but to give you an example of procedure that that you know, how I see the standard done was working for too well. So you didn't just wrap out the drafts. I know this is very lively, but, you know, let's let's talk what really matters. What are we seeing with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "she is. Right? And you just didn't just ref 01 and and shown it. Right? What you were doing, you were running a document. You have to set the documents who are working group documents. And people had actually present the diffs that they wanted on the next revision. So you knew the guy actually did work and what work he was presenting. And then you took a vote. It was more formal. Right? Like, that this thing goes into the document, and that was pretty clear who was working the document, how much they contributed. I mean, that didn't matter at the end. Because the office list was just sorted. Right? You don't want like this guy comes up whatever, maybe editor was acknowledged. So so is your point that that principle, at least, we could have you know, traceable, trackable, who sent text. Yeah. Right. Right. And of course, people can present on top, uh-uh, you know, like, again, ever can be gained, but it's much more tractable. Right? So it's those adorable things to to find out who is actually contributing. We're Don't have a queue anymore. Yeah. In going once? Going twice? Yeah. So so I think that we've Wow. This is a great conversation. Thank you, everybody. We're obviously gonna have to go back and digest the notes and, you know, see if we can help something, coherent out of it and iterate. But, but this was a this was a great start. Thank you. So The the next thing is gonna be, you know, don't get up yet. And gonna be a and now for something completely different, Sue Harris is gonna talk to us. But before we we move on to Sue, I'd just like to know, put out one more. Like, is there is there any other business, anything anyone that wants to us. Otherwise, we'll move on to to Sue's talk. Okay. Cool. So, Yeah. This is definitely a a case of now for something completely different. And when we know, put out a a request for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "people interested in in talking to us. Soon came up with this, and it seemed, it seemed interesting. So And I do resend it a week ahead to John. We and and if we had thought about our our thing. We would have sent it to everybody, but we didn't Actually, I I really appreciate you on that one. Click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, Oh, of course. Okay. So I actually asked the ADs to carefully look at this because this could be a sensitive topic, My point is This it there's a picture of Lars. I thought it will. You know, but the it is based on a dissertation that at the ISG and the part of the ISG is the IETF chair. It doesn't look at large. It doesn't look Alyssa, it goes back to Yari. So Hopefully, so why am I doing this? My goal is simply to give you my PhDs in the area of leadership which is a business degree. Okay? It's standards organization and This is my dissertation, but some of this is just my comments as a chair who's been cheering a long while. So my goal is simply to help you work better and to try to make the Internet work better. Don't think that I don't like our ADA I like the ADs. Okay? So it's really just an eight. Okay. So the measures of an AD There's some don't. Don't use the RFC publication as a measure, and I'm gonna proved to you. That why that's false given the statistics we have. Do judge your, ADs as a working group senior manager leader. These guys are good. Do look at where you're 80 spends his time weekly. Realize if you want your drafts"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "reviewed. He has to spend time reviewing other people's. So that's the purpose. This is the mission. It's sort of mom and apple pie read the slides if you have it. So why don't I actually look at in the information. I looked at the last thing There is a whole bunch of research happening inside of the rest Research group to look at standards process, and they look at mail lists and they look at reviewer choices. I urge you if you can to go ahead and respond to the reviewer choices. They're trying to make better reviewers. But I look specific at what makes What group dynamics? And I'm gonna repeat that. What group dynamics makes an g effective, and that is something that people study. And so that's what I study. Now just to review if you're reviewing your AD on RFC responsibilities, He does have responsibilities, timely, communication of of your frameworks prompts scheduling of director reviews. Thank you for getting a new, set of directorate people. Prompt scheduling of IETF last calls, prompt review. But to do that, he's gotta go through all the process. So please know what's under their control and what's not. Talk to them. Okay. Let's go to the RFC. The RFC on the bottom is the year. Now I can go year by year, and I will give you 20 in 2016, but it's offset If nothing else realized the ISGs go from March to March in the RFC's report on January to January. There's a little time gap there. You can't take them for responsibility when they work there. Okay. So let's look at 2015, 2016, where I counted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "every decision I validated against the publication I validated their working group actions against the ballot and I validated or creation or non creation I went through everything. If you look at RFCs, There were 400 in 2015 Just as an example, there were 474 documents examined for a decision. They approved 313. That year, the RFC was 300 publications but some of it's in the past So what's their approval rate? About 66%. Okay. You can improve that by listening to your shepherds. What about the working group actions? They had, a 111 working group decisions they needed to make. Now, Launice, that year, they made 202. That's the year that we did the arc. Area, and they had a high rate because they'd been talking a lot about it. What about management items? What's the management items? You're RC, IANA, if it goes to the ISG, if you're looking for early, allocation, and they approve about they approved about 47%. So that's about 800 and 820 decisions in about 26 pedings. They are cranking. Okay. 5th 858 percent docs 14% working groups, 35% management. Let's look at 206 216. Again, 66% of the working groups were, documents were approved. They looked at 449. They approved 195. But you had RFCs that are 310. Notice there's a difference. Again, they approved about 86% of the working groups. They've usually talked a lot about that, and they approved about 44% of the management items."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "So notice there's a lot they're cranking through every week. So the RC actions notice they have a lot to do. They have to review the documents. They have to That's what they usually do on their work. We that ends up being the ISG formal. You can see that. Okay. Your leader is a manager. You all have seen the Dilbert you know, pointy here, but you can ask your AD are you being a good manager leader? It's a discussion. You don't get very far at work if you don't talk at your Manager leader. Please do. A good manager, and these guys try really hard to listen to where in group chairs and participants. Know the working good drafts before they review, If you go ahead, you can let them review it. By publishing it a week ahead. Further even helps, and it helped they help with challenges. I don't know how many working group chairs have had their AD knocked down challenges I have. And they preferred clear and timely communication they lobby to get what the working group needs. Ida Yaris says, thank you for our 2 sessions. This This time, we appreciate it. And inspiring leaders do about the same thing, but they think about the future. How many, you know, when you hold it off, these guys spent a lot of time prepping that bath. And they decide what needs to change. Now this all maybe mom and pie, in which case you're an old chair like me or some of the other folks here, and you know that. But do ask if your air how your AD is growing the area? Are they selecting high quality bluffs? Feedback. Your version of a high quality buff may not be theirs or someone else's. And the the reviewer I've said. Okay. These, by the way, are just a translation of things. Now There are some really cool things about the IPF."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "This is a picture of all the emails graphically of all the email subgroups and RFCs. Notice it started with a few and it just sort of look out. Don't worry about reading it. It it The the important part of you can look at it. It's online. The important thing is that it sort of grew organically. You know, we sort of have, a model of compute store, or compute video and store. And many times, I've wondered Doesn't match the physical net. So for this research, I look at physical net And I said these are eye candy folks. If you're really interested, we can debate offline. I looked at how security got into network What sort of network stuff And over the 30 years, these guys have done a pretty good job. They also change areas. Notice we just had a new area created, but that's not the 1st or second. And sometimes the the, formation of IP6 had the IPNG group you had something from routing to think about when MPLS came. So Talking about that stuff is good. You have to realize that these guys are are being called upon when things get tight to go the per mile. That's what makes a good ISG But there are bad team players. You know, blockers of hackers, jokers, people who withdraw. So This mix and the things they must conquer, like, in 2 15, they did the art area, which is now redone, And in 2016, Yari had to deal with the INA transitions. These all have effect. ISGs. So the character of the group and the things they have to deal with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "matter. Now if you're ever interested, I can go through what I learned this this longitudinal is based on a 10% sample. I'm trying to validate my sample and then make it automatic in a set of tools, but you can talk to the RASK group on how I'm working. Again, the statistics on the biweekly load I just gave you Here's another small tidbit. Who decides? They are actually very effective. Usually about 2 thirds of the ice g decides, but they give subgroups decisions to try to make more management. Other thing is Discusses actually get resolved fairly effectively. If you look at it over time, discusses go off into this other loop thing. Where the 2 ADs who might be discussing your 3 are actually doing a ballot and discussing online which means they don't have to come back and bring it to the main group, which is very effective. Because every moment, just like these guys who set a that every moment in the ITS meeting matters, every moment they have in that biweekly meeting, matters. So the fact you get the discusses Help them. Help them. I'm trying to hit John now, Lars, my apology, There is the Lars you know, leader, but There are things you have to realize that when an IETF chair is a good manager and leader He's heading toward a direction. And there are 2 measures, not just one for an IETF tier. The results, which I just showed you, how how many decisions in this biweekly session get made, And then Does he accomplish the things that the non come selected him for For example, Yari was selected to refresh all the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "areas. How many people remember when we when Aliyah and Adrian and other people went through all the area working chairs and ask you to if in the routing we were doing the right thing. That's something that goes beyond. And when you see those bubbles occur, realize your your time is gonna go slower. I might do it on time. You're Just fine. I'm cranking. So What's the result of that? The result, if they're doing something else, the ver you get a variance in the amount of statistics had come out weak. Ask. You know, they'll usually tell you what's if they can, and it's not a personnel matter, which is An appeal is a personnel matter, conflict with a particular chair they won't tell you that and don't expect them. They would you know, that's a bad thing to do, because it's If you were that person, you don't want it spread all over. Okay? But they will have other things that are there. Like, our, Yari's IANA transition. He talked about it, but it does change how effective they are. So ask talk know, learn don't just sort of things. Now caveat. The quantity of quality data matters I did this took me 7, 8 years, and millions of things because I kept getting one result and saying, you know, I look at that, and I don't think from my computer scientist that works. So I have a lot of quantity of of data for your, 2015, 2016. I have 15 times 1600 times 40. A 1000000a half data points. Okay? Triangle is critical."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:02",
    "text": "I triangulated every result, The ISG Minutes doesn't do that for you. You have to sometimes dig it out and Here's the takeaway. Solidarity is better than organizational citizenship behavior. What does that mean? That means because we have a good relationship with each We're willing to put in the extra miles when things get tough. When conflict happens, it's critical that we become friends enough to decide That's a worthy thing to do. It's true of the ISG. When I was at the rest, they said, somebody who's from a policy nerd And that's what I call the government people who come and ask what they can do to make a work with her. I said, you can keep paying for their yearly retreat. Because you're gonna see more output. It's two of us too. So with that, I'm still in the mountains of the data if I get more. I'll share it with you, and I'm gonna work to, give us details like this. Was this interesting? Yes. No. Just tell me afterwards. Give me back my question. Sue, I I just I'm gonna start off here and say, you very much. I I know for me, I found that really, really interesting. I I confess as an AD when you see a presentation like this coming are sitting here going, what am I facing? But, yeah, I I I like the the fact that, you know, the data is is really interesting. It also gives me as an AD a lot to think about, and I I really, really appreciate the presentation, and I'll probably contact you at some point to dig even deeper into some of it because some of it really was interesting. So thank you very much."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:02",
    "text": "Please ask me. Thank you for letting me share my interest. And if anybody else has got comments or questions, yourself in the queue. Put yourself in the queue. Otherwise, we're done. And Yeah. Bay based on, things I'm seeing in various chats, not the only people who are interested. So, anyway, Thank you very much, and we are concluded. Thanks everybody for being here. And thanks for the, really awesome conversation. It was very helpful. Yep. Thank you. 7:30."
  }
]
