[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "Hangs with systems No. It was check the mics and not check the language. Alright. It's time. Hi. I'm Don Fettic, This is Donald Eastlake. And, we have Ronald without on the, remote were the chairs of the Mene Working Group So We'll show the The slides here the note well, know, as a reminder, but participating in the IETF, you agreed to follow the IETF process you and policies, And that's defined down in these documents down here. Sure. You've all seen this. So We'll get to the next And then the note really well, IHG of meetings, virtual meetings, and mailing lists, are intended for professional collaboration and networking as defined in the IITF guidelines. Of contact and the IDA harassment policy and the idea and he write harassment policies. You have any concerns about the observed behavior, please talk to the buttsman, who are available if you need confidentially to raise concerns confident about harassment or any other contact the IETF. The IETF strives to create and maintain a environment in which people have many different backgrounds and identities. Are treated with dignity, decency, and respect. Those who participate in the IETF are expected to behave accordingly and professional standards"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "demonstrate appropriate workplace behavior. ITIP participants must not engage in harassment while at IITF Meetings, virtual meetings, social events, or on mailing lists, Brassman is an unwelcome hostile and Timothy behavior, in particular, speech behavior, that is aggressive or intimidates. If you believe you've been harassed, or or notice something else is being harassed or if any other concerns, you're encouraged to raise your concern. And confidence to one of the officers Alright. So the agenda, We have, the introduction we have any comments if anybody wants to bash the agenda can we have some note takers volunteer notetakers hopefully, we got some note takers. Usually somebody steps up and and and does it. But but but but So we have a couple of presentations, And, we're gonna we're talk we're gonna talk about the current drafts, hopefully, Ronald can give us an update on that. And then we have a couple of presentations, and then we're gonna talk about the charter discussion. And if there's anything else. Anybody else like to bring up any of anything before we go on the status of the work group drafts. Ronald, can you give us an update on the Yes. Sadly, they have more progressed. Much. Or at all, since last time, Trish, however, reason for that, I have to say, don't know whether people have noticed that I was not active on the mailing list, for a month or so. But, I had a slight,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "from might need to do with my last leg. Which also left with me in hospital for a few days. I have just about recovered. This is my 1st week back as work, So the only thing I've managed to do is, pro produce another shepher write up this time for the dressing, classification, draft. So if people can have a look at that, see if Ikes, completed all the questions in, in the right fashion, and I will follow that up. Yeah, tomorrow, I guess, with the 2 remaining, drafts because all these separate drive ups are very similar I will then push, delayed either credit flow control extension to to transport area review because, basic black has not seen that one. David Black in the past, specifically asked us to justify why we have 4 drafts And I think the justification is now given in the Shepherds, Rigot, Rigot, least for, the 2 that I have completed, but the the same at the same bit of text will be in the other two and then I will also put the progress these things. Subject them to, routing area review. And, yeah, I think that I can well understand the frustration of Lue Burger he, he may have given up on these things,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "already, but, I really, still intend to push them through Are are you still missing some, IPR declarations from some of the authors? Yes. It seems that the, co authors of Loeburger are not really, responding anymore. To, requests for IPR declarations. The situation is as follows. Credit flow control, disurf credit flow control extension and traffic classification at 3 authors. We are still meeting the IPR declaration of Bonan Chang for that form. But, David, we can has responded to that, a long time ago. However, for the ethercredits file control will extensions, is only Luperger and Dave Wiggins's, authors and David Wiggins did not React to a request for an IPR, statement because that was sent far more recently just before the San Francisco meeting. Yeah, We have Lou in the in the queue. Okay. So two things. On the co authors, I can try to reach out to, you need anything from him. I haven't talked to him in years. But I can try to see Yeah. If I reach him, David Wiggins, I think is no longer working, or unreachable So it's unlikely we can get him to respond. Okay. Thanks. I don't know what you wanna do about it. I mean, he certainly was an it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "co author during the time he wrote this, we haven't changed anything in a lot of a lot of time. So I don't expect we would be reach out. No. And I I I know the reason that you told me in private. So, Yeah. I I don't know either. I did send out, an email to bone in around around IETF, 117. Just before. But there was no response. Yeah. Again, I haven't talked to him in years. I can try to reach out to him and see if he responds. Once I have a phone number, I'll have to take it off. Yep. So I'll try that. Do you need anything else from the authors in order to progress these things. I have been, yeah, I I will I will write something on the mailing list I've been looking at the history of, RC 8651. And in particularly, in particular, the security section and the security section of, for instance, the lab grounded flow control, is it very similar to an earlier for Ashley to the security section in an earlier version of, the draft that that became 8651. 2 And then it went through a number of, say enhancements, based on, comments from the IESG. And, it became a more full fledged security section in the final, drafting the RFC. And I think we can stave off some some of the same comments, in the new, ISD process by more or less copying from 8651. Into, into these drafts."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "But I'll I'll I'll write it up on the mailing list. Okay. I I, think just copying information that is in a base document. Rather than point it to the base document is I guess, not a way I would go. I would point to the base document unless there is something new being introduced. And if there's something new, we need to treat that appropriately. But if it's just repeating what's there, well, that we're we're right in an extension to a protocol, we shouldn't have the same considerations. In my opinion, I tend to I tend to agree. But we could talk talk the details once you get it on Yep. Alright. So if you need anything else, just let me know and I'll do my best to reach out to Bonan and with with respect to David, maybe have a offline conversation with the AD about it and Uh-uh, or the or the editors. Thank you. Thank you, Alu. Thank you very much. Let me go ahead. Yes. Alright. This is Donald, but I just wanted to say there are is a process whereby, it's impossible to get IPR declaration from an author with the AD's approval, it can be put through assuming you've made all reasonable efforts to to contact the author, etcetera, and he decides it's the way to go. Okay. So, Is there is there, reference in any form to that process. Or proud to call. Nothing I'm aware of. Sure. So, Ronald, it's, Jim."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "As Donald said, if if you've made every effort, to, to contact one of the authors, then I I guess we have a a a couple of choices. But I can, take that as an action. I'll check with the ISG is is is know, what, what the best practice is. 1 one option is to move the author from the front page is a contributor. That's one option. If the working group agrees to that the second option is that, you know, I can approve it based on know, showing that we've made every effort, but leave that one with me, and I'll, I'll take that Thank you. Next, we have the, presentation by Henning Henning, can you Speak to this is somebody looking. Is he trying to talk or you see, you have We we cannot hear you, Andy. Try turning on your camera and see if we can see you. Oh, I don't know this we never did hear you on this side. I don't think any. So in the meantime, we could we could go to I do some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "presentation, and we'll see if you can get it working. Alright. Has has Can you hear me? Yes. We can hear you. Okay. Thank you My name is, Presentation is, what magnitude is use cases and, proposed managed routing protocols. Actually, this, presentation, came out out of, discussions, on the main and before and, maybe also recently in this year, Next page, please. K. The Usually, looking at them and, use cases, we we we referenced the the RFC 2501. Which was mainly, a reference by all. I think, our, documents, and usually, It has been from maybe, I think, 99 or about the so it's been long, time. And I asked before to to if we can maybe, a date this,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "RFC document to include some new technologies, but, I think in 2014 or 13, the there was a, objection from the working group. And I still think that maybe we can add some new cases or, included or discuss it also, or discuss also scenarios as we see in the use case, new use case. There are new technologies which are, are invented. Also, there's the 5 gs to learn at work and, the future of the the IOT emergency communications, disaster situation. These use cases are important for a man and, I I don't think we covered, these, use cases. This working group also had already between 2003 2007 published experimental mana routing protocols about 42 proactive and to react protocols after testing and, done, implementation for these protocols and, evaluating their performance we got to publish, through the working group or other working group, participants, publish the proactive, rooting protocol in 2014. Next page, please. Through this, RFC 2501 imagining,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "mentioning the protocol performance, usually, the dependent, important parameters or, some performance metrics. We have to check for to to make sure our the routing protocol is is, working well or, with good performance. As as, our experimental routing protocols we have already got results that changing the network size, the checking the the connectivity or the number, average number of neighbors. Topology change, link capacity, mobility, usually, they were used we we from, there are some different models or mobility models were used not all, but, there was testing for, the the performance of, the our perman thing, rooting protocols. And of, the fraction of, and the frequency sleeping. No. I didn't see much results for that, but that are already, on IETF, published a new working group for, LLNs, and, and that they have already done some work for the particular issue, but it's even though if there's a sleeping notice, it's it's it's it's can be similar or, can be taken as also no doubt we can say link drop Next page page, please. And the main monitoring performance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "metric, was the end to end delay. Also checking the throughput, packet delivery rate, overheads, the rooting overhead. And efficiency. Why why I'm looking at this, this performance or the measuring the performance. Because, also, I'm, interested to to compare our new, or of our new routing protocols, to implement it and to check its, its performance, referencing referencing 2501. And the and this text, on the this page, for 2501 is interesting and important, it should be recognized that a voting protocol or we can say a mandatory call, tends to be well suited for particular network context. So so not all, rooting for calls work for all, network context, but still in our documents, we can see a more general general, description as this man at, routing protocol, can work for a general purpose, but when we start to look at different mobility models and different, traffic loads and, connectivities. There are many, advantages and implementations for a different routing protocol. So saying that we we only need 1 routing protocol. I don't think it's a right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "uh-uh statement. So write this, text, I will go forward for the next page, please. For managed, voting proposals, we had, AOD views, 35 1 and, 4728 as reactive, root protocols experimented and evaluated well. For, maybe 1 or 2 technologies are, under layer. IP handler, but, AODV version 2, hasn't been, completed yet. I'm proposing, you know, if the authors, can, restart the the and I'm also interested to proposed the DSR version 2 or, the dynamic source routing. As a manager, I I didn't I didn't get published the draft 00, but I'm interested to include the managed packet and message format, which is a general packet format, which, our working group have already, published as a stand, standard, 54, 44. neighborhood discovery protocol. I may use it as optional and, this, proposed protocol. And did it, 8175. It's important for is is one of the fair, very important for all routing protocols which which will cover, disaster scenarios"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "or disaster use cases and also, the emergency communication for, for hybrid, routing, we discussed a little for hybrid uh-uh rooting, but, to call and also, and it's, mentioned, and, and 25, RFC 25, 01, which is, it mentions that we have reactor greeting, and proactive and hybrid, and which was already the custained many papers and also was discussed on the the mailing list. Before maybe even I start participating but, the important issue is that uh-uh, I expect that also the 5444 packet message for Mark. Was, was thought of because of, there there was a view of having the future as a hybrid first, we start with proactive or reactive. And then in the future, we try to make it, one packet of they they did a hybrid which has routing, with retroactive and proactive. So a hybrid rooting protocol was already thought of, I think, in my opinion. Also, fixing a neighborhood that protocol as a general, general, interface for all routing protocols was also, interest, I think, in, the working group. But, however, we may leave that in we finished, in my opinion, or my proposal is that we start the hybrid routing with or after we complete active, standard"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "and maybe also there was a proposal from Chris, on the list. I think he he asked if we can start from proactive. I don't mind as as if we we also look at, the react And that there is also proposal Okay. For multi passes, yes. But that's when we get it, but if we complete hybrid rooting, after the. I think this, will blend into the the charter discussion, make sure that I mean you think these these items are covered, but by the charter and you know, We need drafts. To to discuss this. If if it's gonna move forward. Okay. I agree with you. Okay? you can hear me now. I hope Yes. We can. Yes. Good. I would like to skip over issues we had with LDV in terms of metric and documents but would like to focus on something even more important. Running code. When we were talking about standardizing AOD version 2, even even the outdoors of the document could not point me to a single working implementations. Think the best I got was something with for 2.4.something Which was 10 years out of date at that point. So unless this has changed and someone wrote a good reactive AODV or DSM implementation that works could currently There's no point in this documents because We have no value. We have no way to evaluate them, we have no implementation. Okay. Julius. Julia's trouble checks. So, Well, by the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "time. So when OLSRV 2 and RSC standard level were developed. We had a fair amount of experimental data. That showed that OLSR V1 and pre pre standard Babble did actually work. There was notably the colossal amount of work that was done by a bunch of people, including handing in the battle mesh community. There were a number of published results in the peer reviewed. Press that indicated that these proper costs actually work in practice and are not just a good, a good theoretical idea. I am not aware. So DSR and AODV are those extremely sexy protocols They look really good on paper. But I am not aware of as the published literature that indicates that they work not only in simulation, but they actually work in the real world. That means they don't work. Is only the time left aware of any such published results. And I would very much welcome being able to work on or ALDBV they would be great fun to work on But until we have experimental results. That indicate that they actually do work. I think it would be premature to charter them in this working Okay. Thank you. Okay. Hending, we've got your presentation up now. Okay. Let's try this again. So some people will recognize most of this So I start to I have quite a few DRIP draft I would like to add to the working group, but I focus on ones for the physical Leah. Next next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, next, So these are, currently, the radio band draft is in the forced revision and the channel utilization on radio quality drafts in the search revision next."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:04",
    "text": "So the radio band is just primarily used for the radio to have a standardized way to tell the route of what frequency resource it used. So It's center frequency and the ban bandwidth. Next, This can be, for example, use in, further metric experiments calculating some kind of spectral efficiency We can check this with current lists of frequency bands we don't want to use to make sure we don't have a misconfiguration in a external radio And I knew some coworkers that like to work on cognitive radios so they want to adjust this frequency and stuff like this on the flight during run time. And with the lab, we could do this with the request link characteristic. That's why I think the radio band ward draft would be useful document. Next. Next. Channel utilization. This is just some counters measured in nanoseconds how the radio perceives radio channel in terms of the channel is free. It's blocked. A specialized subcategory of blocked radio has been reading data or writing data to the channel. Sending out receiving next next next next this gives us a good estimate, what what we can do with the channel especially aesthetically allocated TDMR. Rail channels. Because in this case, there might be time periods where we are not allowed to send and nobody else is sending because the time is just allocated for someone else. This draft would allow radio to report correctly saying, yeah, This much of the channel is free for your local radio to use. This much. I've seen data. Incoming through the radio,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "and we could use this to be a little bit more sure how much more data we can send Next. The radio quality draft tries to address the problem that on slower radios, especially VHS we cannot do probing. Because there are pro media access slow only get at best. A couple of packets per second. And That's not enough to measure the quality on a changing channel especially on moving notes, So we, the radio quality draft has some values infied, that could give us more data all check that, the channel is not disrupted by on devices. Again, I have some coworkers who tried things like automatic jamming detection by measuring the incoming noise level over the area of a minute. Next, So what's next? The radio quality draft needs some improvement. I got some internal feedback from a few radio vendors. And first, I have to improve the text to make sure that most of these values depends dependent on the modulation coding scheme, the radio is running on. So every time the bit rate the radio reports changes. We shouldn't make make the, educated guess that the values are not direct comparable Also, it seems that the bit error rate is the much better, radio generic value, to to report. And to process The signal to noise radio, 2 radio vendors announced the turns to me that the signal to noise ratio is very much waveform or radio dependent. So it's much more difficult to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to interpret the semantics is not completely Kalia. I think it could still be useful for certain elements, but at the but the bit error rate should definitely become a mandatory Malio. Next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next next So small work? I had some draft plan for the radio reporting, Maclayer statistics to the router. I'm not 100% sure how youthful. They would be I had them in old private deal of implementation, but much of this, data can be measured by the router self by monitoring the local interface And I have some drafts planned, that allow the radio to report a little bit more about capabilities. Things like I can transmit or I can receive my decast. Or not. There are things like LTE clients. Often you can send a multicast to the base station But unless you have, quite flexible base station. The base station cannot send mighty casts. To the clients. If you know this, you can automatically configure a routing critical to work around these problems or in some cases report an error. Then there's IP support. I have seen layer 2 radios that cannot do IP version 6. It would be nice if the radio had a good way to provide us with this information that we are allowed or not allowed in most cases if we want to report this to transmit certain IP data. Are we allowed to to use VLANs or other protocols except for IP. This would be useful information. And last thing, service discovery. A lot of Especially military, radios have additional services like voice interfaces. Or maybe there are some HTTP port on the radio for configuration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "issues. If the radio could report to us that certain local sockets in addition to the lab, are you can be used then we can configure the firewall and the routing on the local router to make this available. In some configuration interfaces or maybe automatically connect to some voice interface of the radio. But still This is for future work. I would first like to concentrate on the trip 35. Related drafts. Next, Okay. Any questions? Ronald. Yes. So first, a bit with, Jared had home or off home we we ran, American Group adoption goal in September I think it ended, the 22nd September officially. I was going to comment myself which I had off I will still do that. But, yeah, there were some expressions of support Most notably, there was, most notable was, expression of support from a radio vendor I think that was that was very good. Response was not overwhelming, but, is it ever? Yeah. In M and A in the last few years. So I'm inclined. To Goldies, this, draft, adopted there is some work. I'm going to comment on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "some aspects of this that's mostly with chair head off. And But I see value she value in the radio quality drafts for the reason that, having just mentioned, in in in a radio waveform, so it fits very little bandwidth then you will want to use the local locally available information, to the maximum extent to, to say something about the quality of the links that sets I think that's general utilization, Draft now says at least and, it defines a number of data items and it it says that in in which messages these data items are used The other two graphs to the best of my knowledge do not do this that would be one comment, but I've also sent it to the mailing list. And for the regular quality draft, I wonder whether we need 3 separate extension points for the extension values, instead of 1. So if you want to use bit error rates and, she got the noise ratio, and what was the third one? I forgot already. Then should these be 3 different extensions. And instead of one so that, vendors can indicate which exactly what they support and what they don't support. Okay. I think, we should take that to the list, Ronald. So now now we're on the, but but don't go away."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Now, we're on the charter discussion, and I have your, your, your your, slides on the charter discussion from the interim meeting. Just, I think what we should do is not rather than go through these and and complete detail is just talk about we had an interim meeting where we had we presented these slides then we took to the mailing list, for feedback and we we got very sparse feedback. And that's not a good sign if we're gonna take on new things. So We were given direction that unless there's strong support and it's support isn't just raising your hand, but it's raising your hand and bringing new work to the the working group that we're not gonna add it to the charter. So with that, is there anything, Ronald, do you like to point out in these slides that we should take into account for the, the group, because everybody, I think, has had a chance to look at this and go over the material. We haven't had a lot of things. I don't I like to open it up for discussion of pointed things that we missed or, you know, that's doesn't the way it's gonna be. Ronald, Yeah. Again, I've I've been out of action for a month, so to speak, So a lot of things did not happen. I I would have commented as an individual as a participant that's, I'm really interested in some of the things that, Christopher Dealoff, posted, on the mailing list. How we could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "use the existing OSR V2 specification to already reduce the amount of overhead that all of us are, produces I shall clever speaking. And then the potential for enhancing osrv2 with, some, reactive mechanisms I'm probably misrepresenting or no? Presenting fully what what was in these emails. But, these are two aspects that I as an individual would like to work on, so much so that, even if the M and A, working group goes on goes under, I would still try to find a way to to work on on that Yeah. And I for the most shut. Yeah. We would have we had hoped for at least a little more attendance at the interim, and, a more bit more response to to the discussion that was initiated on the mailing list after that But is what it is so Multicast is still on a on my list of favorites I have some ideas, but I have a feeling that, I first need to tried some things out to find out if this this ID holds other before I can bring it to the ATF So that's not some it's not something I immediately can can write across the bat. Yeah, that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "That's it for now. I'm Dusalom. Yes. Regarding the chat, like, I agree that I I I I missed the last meeting, intern. Last meeting, but, we, I think, mostly, we agreed with the the charter, but some, some points maybe not added from the discussions but maybe, needs, another round. I I asked. I think also I asked the chair if they can write, like, a proposal for the charter, which not without the points here. But, maybe I missed that. I'm not sure if there was emails sent the discussion just for a proposal. And I remember that, we we got also a email regarding adopting, one draft for Henning, which he presented today, but still, we didn't get any, confirmation of adoption. Thank you. Well, Yeah. The it wasn't clear on the list. I mean, I went through the the the material, but it was it was weak response. I mean, we certainly can, out the charter. They're in the agenda there is a a draft, of the charter update from the previous meeting that, Ronald had put in there. And I put a link to it in the agenda, I can share that. But you know, there there's some text to work from for that. And it's It's not heavily marked up, as you can see,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "So I I think it's something that, you know, we we can we can basically take on the list and and and hash that out and make sure that we're not missing anything that was in the discussions. Julis, Jugis Krobertruck I'm thrilled to hear that Tralom does interest in multicast And, but I would like to have a little bit more information about how much how much interest there would be in a multicast protocol that is robust enough to survive the money environment. And I have no idea how to do that. So that's an appeal to the charts. If you can find a way to find out whether people are interested in that or whether it is as Ronald Me nobody else I'd be interested in them in that with the take right now. Do you wanna do you wanna see if you can get set that set that up? Henning? Yep. I have been, interested in multicast for quite a number of years, but must admit I came to a conclusion that I don't want to do multicast routing anymore. Because it seems every one of my different use cases need a different forwarding and processing semantics. So I have things a lot. We have things to consider like, some group voice channel. Distribution of live information like GPS positions, or maybe distribution of data you want to share with your neighbors in a seemingly reliable way. And for none of them IP multicast is a good approximation So coupled with the problem that we don't have a multicar forwarding plane in the Linux corner it will be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "quite difficult to get something good with multicast. Well, we shouldn't be limited by the the Linux kernel as a as a as a Bart, and I I I don't think that should be What do you propose if we don't use? If Linux cannot do what we are proposing How do we want to test it? Well, but Linux can do multicast. It may not do it efficiently, but it it can do multicast. Yes, but not for Manet. Okay. I can attempt to start a pull here. So basically say, yes, if you're interested in working on multicast and no, if you're not, We'll see what the results are. And even, a draft, an informational draft of, you know, the the pros and cons of multicast Henning would be useful, I think, to this group. You've thought about it. Okay, Julius. I think there's a very good point that Henning has made I would like to stress is that the multicast technology is going to depend on the use cases. Whether we were using it for discovery, whether you we were using it for efficient data dissemination, And so in addition to that, if people are interested, we need to understand why people are interested No. So we've I don't know if we need to wait further for this result to secure to be five people in the current audience who are interested in nobody specifically goats. No. Right. Right. Will terminate a short Okay. Well, it's a one one though. So the 5 to 1. Debit,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "That was not part of so Linux absolutely does also have a multicast forwarding plane. However, classical multicast forwarding is probably, probably, impossible with the money. Rather than I have discussed this before, that it's possible to apply beer to a money, I think. So the solution space is not empty, I believe. And I'm interested in implementing whatever someone might need. However, I don't have a use case myself. I'm not sure how I would I would have voted on the previous draft. Yeah. It's a solvable problem, but if no one if there's no consistent demand for this, then Well, Nah. Okay. Put put put put Jim? Yep. Thanks. So, So on the charter discussion, I think, know, one of the things as the AD, I was frankly disappointed on was a very very small amount of response to it on the mailing list. So in order for me to even consider the recharter. I need to see people get engaged on that mailing list and you know, responding to what's being requested by the chairs in terms of what should we work on, and they've listed a whole bunch of things. And whether you actually personally will enable to do so. I'm gonna let this go for a while. I think between now and Brisbane,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "think we need to have that conversation on the mailing list. I don't think we can make any decisions right now. I encourage everybody to please Get on the mailing list. Respond to the chairs, let's have that conversation And then, hopefully, we can get to a point where you know, there is actually work to be done that we can show in that charter. Obviously, and and Ronald, the you know, there are those 4 documents, and I understand the reasons why those haven't been progressed. You were we already talked about that. But, again, we need to see what we already have, get in progressed. Rather than stagnant. So I I guess that's really what I what I say. So in in summary, let's have the conversation again, we can restart the conversation on the mailing list, but if there's no response like this time, then, you know, we need to seriously think about you know, what what it what is it that we're here to actually do? So I'm trying to put it as nice nicely as possible, but please get involved get on the mailing list. Let's let's have the conversation. Yeah. Okay. Hello, everyone. My name is I'm from Tunisia. I'm working with so, I am very interested activities. I want to know if you have proposed proposed any solution. To overcome the mobility of notes Sorry. What was the question? The question is if you have you considered or proposed any solution to overcome the problem of mobility Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "Well, I mean, You wanna you wanna take that, I mean, there have been, mobile ad hoc network protocol standardized. So those are solutions for some part of the problem space. Of mobility. And you had goodies from the sauna but we're considering whether working on alternative solutions that might be better in a certain contexts or improvements in the ones and then have already been standardized. So Okay. Thank you. If you can ask more specifically, especially on the mailing list, you can probably get a more in lengthy and detailed response. Okay. Thank you. Trucking. Julie, it's scrubber checks. So, I haven't been pondaga in the mainland list because the chairs have been doing such a good job summarizing the things, and I thought it was pointless to add a me too. And so in order to stimulate activity on the mailing I would like to suggest that the chair say something stupid once in a while So then we'll we'll see what errors we can make. To encourage correction So Hello, everyone. This is from Qing Park University. And, I'm a newcomer to this working group. some drought problems for the emerging low us up, etcetera, network. So I take some to emerging the assessment network may have some could be some very familiar with the magnets because due to the mobility, high mobility, and unstable and connected. So, we our group have many research on the resulting for the satellite network. And if possible when maybe we are happy if we can contribute our new ideas and works to this group. Possible. If our work fits the charter of this working group."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "Thank you. So the question was on satellite networks. Do we have, somebody that covers like, Leo and those types of satellite numbers. There's some work going on, but I need to look at the man HR, or is it sister, Really? And, again, a mailing list. Discussion. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Jim was just suggesting if can come across the microphone and a mailing list discussion on this topic, which I think is excellent. I think when I looked at the charter, it it's many charters look pretty general to me. Yeah. So you know, I thank you for the suggestions and and also also posting a a message on the mailing list will be helpful. Okay, sir. Alright. We have a couple minutes left. Any other comments? Julie, as you wanted an announcement about this bird, condition. Oh, you'd sit back. It's a ways back in the chat. You know? I don't know. Let's see. One moment. So there's a beat up What time is it? 1900, the 7th AM, of bird people. It's the bird riding sweet. And that's at, Swodchka Carlin. I assume it's a restaurant or some other pub or some combination. At, for novoska 697 slash 35. So it's in the chat and, Let me, repost it. So it's at the bottom of the chat. So you have a improved probability of finding it. Okay. This got So it's Now the Right now, it's the last entry in the chat. So that's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "people who are interested in here in Prague should consider going. Consider going. Okay. Well, thank you. Okay. We got one more comment. Yeah. Ronald, a a comment for you on the the IPR thing that we talked about earlier I did a little bit little bit of check-in in my spare time just now and, I think, in the Shepard write up, you'll see that there's, some blurb on IPR. And I think as long as you can put in there a justification as to, you know, reasonable efforts have been made to contact the author that have all failed then I think we're we're we're covered from from an IPR perspective. There there isn't a formal process. And that's actually been checked by IGF Legal several times, and and and there are reasons why there isn't formal process. But if you can put in the shepherd right up, you know, just a blurb about that all you know, all reasonable efforts have been made over a period of time, you've had no response that should be enough for me to approve that when it goes through all 48. Thanks, Sam. I will do that. Yeah. There there there is some wording already there. Yep. Trying to make the point that 3 of the drafts, We did have an IPR declaration from David Wiggins but not from Baumann. But they're from the same organization and I did leak and lifts. So Yeah. But I'll expand Yeah. And and and I did notice on the there isn't actually any IPR filed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "for any of those documents. So if and I didn't know I I also noticed that one of the authors I think you just said that works for the the same organization. Right? So if if you've had an IPR declaration come back from that particular person then I think we're definitely okay. Yeah. Except for the 4 drafts where, there's only one author of that organization. Sure. Yeah. But, The other thing you could are you are you actually in contact with that other person, or can you contact that other person? Because it could be that you could mention to them about the other 3 documents, and and you might be able to get a a an act from them, which you know, from a company perspective, No. They both seem to be enrichable, at this point in time. Out Okay. Alright. Just put it in the chef and write up for get it through to me, and I'll I'll deal with it from the we'll do. Thank you, Jim. Yep. Thanks a lot. Alright. So we'll look forward to more discussion on the mailing list. See you in Brisbane if you're Yes. Would be nice. Okay. We'll see. Thanks to all participants, and thanks to the presenters. The procedure Sure. I don't know if there's an easy way to trim this off or it can come through yet, but I know it's Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:05",
    "text": "Hi. So, Ronald, good to see you more happy again. Okay. Actually, tonets, I Sorry. What did you say, Anik? Good to see you more healthy again. Yeah. Yeah. There was a bit of a surprise, a couple of weeks back when it turned out either they also had a thrombosis do my mic, but, hope we can talking on a on a different channels and Yep. Okay. Thanks for your presentation. You're welcome. I got to get out of here. Yeah. See you. But"
  }
]
