[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "so we are going to start the meeting in a minute please go to your chairs people at the end of the room please close the door ok so this is the LP one working group we have Dominick battle here acting as chair Alex is not with us he\u0027s the proud father of a young Leonardo so we welcome neo now to this group and so hello - Alex will be joining us from Ithaca but it was much easier that just I mean it could stand with me at the chair so with this we\u0027re staying as usual we won\u0027t distribute the blue sheets immediately we\u0027ll wait like 10 to 15 minutes so the usual late people so this is an IETF official meeting all the best practices of ITF meetings apply in particular the rules about patterns if you\u0027re aware of any IPR that applies to the discussion that takes place in this room whether it\u0027s from your sponsors or weather please let us know or refrain from talking about this and if you don\u0027t want to speak during the meeting you may always talk to the chairs after the meeting the other best practices also apply anti restaurant and all the others so they are listed on this page the meeting is being filmed and recorded and actually it will be published on Yahoo on YouTube I\u0027m sorry yet and actually what\u0027s very cool is you can extract the transcripts from the YouTube page I\u0027m sure you can make a rule that translator yeah with YouTube and fix me so yeah so everything is recorded minutes are being taken blue sheets will be distributed I want to make sure that we have people joining the etherpad that\u0027s the mean we used to take minutes what\u0027s very cool is you can join it online and if you speak to the mic please check after that what you said was captured quietly make sure that your name was kept shot correctly so we publish accurate minutes okay so please all join these the pad and and preview the minutes as they are being taken mostly if you\u0027ve been speaking so who can take minutes okay we have two three is there somebody on the on the double even you yes okay thank you okay and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:21",
    "text": "then the other material is available on this page it\u0027s it\u0027s also available from the agenda page on the IETF site and that\u0027s actually what we use to go from from presentation presentation so we have a lot on our plate today but we have 2 hours some kind of confident that we won\u0027t have any problems I won\u0027t be pressing people I don\u0027t think so the the new thing compared to the agenda that we had published or till about date is that we have an interesting presentation on a shield limitation coming from Chile so this one will be actually appended to the presentation by Adam in each so in those 15 minutes I guess the mini will speak for like 10 minutes and then we will be able to discuss I don\u0027t know any provinces psychic the by Sheik since so we\u0027d be able to do this case that has value will at some time then six arcs no one so this time there was a lot of work done on the lower one specification many discussions on the mailing list so we we gave more time to even so we can we tell us the best and latest about how low how one profiles shake then the data model and actually I just got a text from sera she said I won\u0027t be joining the meeting immediately cover start without me said yes if so why she\u0027s not there at the time after the young thing I would like to push it till he arrives but I guess you will be there because it\u0027s now an hour from now then the co-op\u0027s magic context who I am to the minimal step to discuss I am again and Calais will show us the progress until the discussion Charlie was supposed to to present to give us an eye Tripoli status as it goes Charlie did not join the mythical so I don\u0027t know if you would be with us if Charlie you could join let us know do you sit shown in a Michiko all right don\u0027t so I\u0027m not too sure that we will have Charlie this time but ok we\u0027ll get the news next time and and then we\u0027ll discuss free chattering because we are pretty I mean the basic OBE so I show here so the bearing thing for which offering was complete chick so chic is now past so we can very actively work on the rich after now and that\u0027s it so as just said main work item is now complete that\u0027s the baseline chick technology and that was main effort in this group we plan to submit the coop compression to ASG November no ha we still in line with disco I think we are from the last intro from your perspective it\u0027s okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:25",
    "text": "so we\u0027ll have we\u0027ll have a discussion at the end about rich chattering Suresh that\u0027s pretty much it for the intro any bashing hello good morning and so this is a stages about the basic sheet draft ipv6 static context were currently in version 21 so I\u0027ll spend just one a minute or two remembering people what this draft is about so it should new to the working group if you haven\u0027t looked at that before you here\u0027s your chance to understand what this is about and then I\u0027ll go over what we\u0027ve done since last I definitely a little report on the hackathon we had we can just before this week and what\u0027s coming up after this and in the back of the slides have the list of changes if there\u0027s any question of what exactly we did we can go over that but otherwise just skip it and then so what sister after bad I like to say there are three parables in one draft one deliverable is a generic header compression mechanism that uses a static context this gives the name shake to the whole technology static context header compression so it\u0027s that thought in blue in my protocol stack here in option ipv6 UDP but actually nothing in this header compression mechanism is dedicated to these protocols so we can apply it to anything that regular has things that that look like headers in the same draft we also have the specification of a fragmentation protocol and we have three versions of fragmentation free modes which address different underlying network requirements these are free boxes of described here and it\u0027s kind of compression over fragmentation it\u0027s not really encapsulated that gets people a little bit confused sometimes we need to be better at explain and in the same draft we have a simple example I would say of how we can apply compression to ipv6 UDP it\u0027s simple because we don\u0027t consider ipv6 versions options sorry and so all the fields are happen only once and fixed in position fixed in length so it\u0027s pretty simple and the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:25",
    "text": "more complex stuff comes before in coop so this is a red box here so you will find these free things in the same draft and so other graphs do the rest of the stuff like this red box shows the coop draft so applies had a compression to all this upper protocol stack and the other drafts like she calls it foxy over Laura that we\u0027ll hear about today do these red boxes how do we apply mostly fragmentation over various technologies because they have their own specificities and so they pick you one or two or three of the fragmentation modes and set parameters so that it fits the characteristics the underlying technology so that\u0027s my view of the whole work we\u0027re doing in this working group yeah and so far the draft I\u0027m talking about has specified the format of frames that go over the air of the three person to the underlying layer but so far we haven\u0027t defined how we express how we represent the rules that are used for compression and fragmentation so a part of the other drafts propose a representation of the context the rules the parameters for fragmentation and everything this way this is not in this draft okay what has happened since the last meeting so fairly long list of technical stuff but we had IOT idea review by custom which was funny ha of the document we discuss with Caston at Prague and agreed on most of the changes we improved the description of ikana Road there was mistakes in the description we received received an ad a review by Suresh it\u0027s a completed ITF last goal I haven\u0027t heard of any comment so so far looks good and we published 20 and 21 in the last few days so the account status is waiting for write-up for me yeah so it\u0027s like a procedural step for me to issue a ballot like so it gets like on the next available filly chat so that\u0027s so you don\u0027t have to worry about a chai issue the ballot and the author updates the draft raft is saying hey or this review and I\u0027m fixing it right and then the some of the IES she read an older version and some of them read the newer version and that kind of like I wanted to avoid that and in any weights idea we usually you don\u0027t do anything like like because nobody\u0027s going to start working on it so this afternoon like it should be pallet and then we get on like next like giving the number of pages so previously you placed us explicitly on a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:26",
    "text": "Tele chat but now it\u0027s like automatic so it looks at the reading load and then puts it on until the chat so I\u0027m expecting the 22nd of August if he be on until chat okay so it seems like people time to read the stuff like all the Directorate reviews and everything and so on whatever it\u0027s like left over because some of the directorates to last call and tell each attributes separately so like Jenna\u0027s for example does it separately so they do a last cause review and look at the updates and do a tell etcetera reactor okay so I don\u0027t expect any anything to come out of it but they they do one the time to do that so they can expect like two week window so that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying 22nd would be a to date so and if you want like a style like dominate like if you want to be on the call you can be able to call you cannot speak and less like in and let\u0027s give you but you can be on the call anybody can be an observer on the call but I could pack Stella hey like you know if I have some questions for you you can actually answer it so it gets done quicker rather than make another two weeks okay yeah if possible I\u0027d like to be on the call so you can decide if you want to join so it\u0027s about it 4:00 p.m. and in France like Thursday okay thank you thank you so much just just a quick read report on the hackathon there were 10 team members over the weekend yeah went seven here on free remote from Chile is been in Japan so actually it was the Soh he worked overnight for us and when we came back in the morning he had and quite a lot of work our night so that was really great and so we basically worked on two fronts one is make open chic easier to use so producing documentation cleaning up a dinner a tutorial how you get surf install it and also improve the functionalities of the code quite a lot of work merging several branches that kind of diverged between meetings so we now have a compression and fragmentation integrated into the same brain sync which wasn\u0027t the case before and I\u0027ll talk about em later coming up legs well nothing Suresh described but it\u0027s going to come in terms of the draft itself and we want to communicate more about shakey educate people about chick we get lots of question I don\u0027t quite understand how this works etc so we kind of agreed we\u0027ll prepare a full-blown tutorial on check that we can create the lower lines or other groups that are interested in carrion will open check of course in I know this economic work to evaluate performance and applicability this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:28",
    "text": "outside the draft itself but just to communicate with you the kind of interest we get about chick so of course there are other drafts of this same working group that use shake obviously but the most happening club CDTI PVC compression overall one over six Fox already a couple years ago coop compression of our LTM so we\u0027re not compressing UDP ipv6 but just a co-op part of an IP enabled Network and still getting benefit of the compression so just even to mention that co-op is not shake is not dedicated to the IP layer to sit below the IP layer it can sit at any any point in the stack as a sexual oral one and shake is being evaluated to the lower Alliance for the LMS transmission or lower one so they have the LMS over UDP IP OSX and so we have you deploy ipv6 or wrong one so that could solve that problem Daniel here is interested in using shake for IPSec ESP compression and in terms of implementation we have open shake which already mentioned we have a Cleo they have commercial card both in C and go language both for the devices in the network so commercial-grade operational and I just showed last week about the new implementation so Sondra is going to tell us a little bit about it just after my my presentation and riot have expressed interests are not currently actively working on it but they have intention of implementing implementing open shake in right either by rewriting a C implementation which would be for a different implementation or by running micro - overwrite and using reusing some of the open G code okay well Joanie to go over the changes do you have any specific question home now it\u0027s there for reference so I guess you can tell us about your implementation any question okay hello everyone so I\u0027m Sandra says bells from Universidad de Chile and I will present a lot from actually this is a world from the legal he\u0027s a master student and this year we started implementing the draft or she cover loyal one so I\u0027ll just give a brief "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:30",
    "text": "report of what is the status of this implementation so basically this is the architecture that we are using this is our experimental setting so we have a low pi end device which is connected to a rack wireless gateway and then this connects to the the things network and the other part of shake is implemented in Amazon Web Services so he\u0027s using API gateway talking via rest to the network server and the actual implementation of shake is in in lambda function inside the AWS services so this is the status of the implementation what you see here on the right is the the modules that are that are part of the implementation so basically we have a big module with compression the compression and the other module is for fragmentation and reassembly the one that is almost ready is the first part the compression the compression this has a compressor which gives the output aesthetic packet and then the die compressor which received the chip packet and the output is an ipv6 plus a UDP packet and then there is a parser that gives us access to all the headers in a chic packet and the rural manager which is a one that loads the specific rule that we need to apply for for a compression action so all the rules are implemented outside in a dictionary and then the role manager just loads the specific rule that we need to apply for a compression and then so this is around a 90 percent ready they have fragmentation and reassembly module this is in charge of an aura student so I will see his work next week and then I can tell you if this is also working or not I couldn\u0027t say yet if it\u0027s working I already said this so so far we we have tested the day uplink for the compression and it\u0027s working we haven\u0027t yet tested the downlink but the coldest is their Israeli we just need to do the testing and also for the fragmentation we haven\u0027t done any tested any testing yet what we have pending still so this 90% comes that from the fact that we haven\u0027t yet implemented these two compression the compression actions which is mapping certain at least be basically because so rodrigo said he\u0027s connected actually he said that he wasn\u0027t using them and so he just skipped the implementation for now and then as i said we need to third attack the downlink for the compression and we want to do one end-to-end testing with with all the IP connectivity entrant so this is this is gonna be the last part to test so we plan to do it first for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:30",
    "text": "only for only for the compression and then we have when we have the fragmentation convey to then they\u0027re complete thing and i was gonna say something else well i forget so that i think thats so maybe we can try to make some interrupting as soon as you give us rules right it\u0027s all my fault no Nadia just UDP yeah it\u0027s just and and and also we plan to make the code public so it\u0027s not there yet we haven\u0027t documented the code yet but it\u0027s gonna be available so we will tell the group when their code is is ready to to access control and so I I understand that your presentation is 50% ready but did you look at the other one [Music] both both yes boss both of them so I what I understand is that Rodrigo whatever he couldn\u0027t find in one he just went to the general one and then implemented wattage another one said yeah okay thank you thank you very much we\u0027re very interested in your feedback if you saw anything missing you know trying to do this connaissance of the Aloha world and if we find something thank you very much and understand he will be at the next meeting in Singapore right no I mean you already grow your atom yeah so maybe we can plan for interrupts let\u0027s work on that I hope it\u0027s very clear to everyone in the room that was very critical now is to get a command format for the rules so we can feed the rules into both implementations and try one implementation on one side and do the implementation on the other side right right now is kind of blocking us for interrupt because we can\u0027t express the rules in the fashion that both codes can digest so that\u0027s really the next important step for us good morning everyone Carlos so you get from seefox so I\u0027m gonna talk about the the draft IETF lp1 chic over sea Fox just a quick note to say to welcome the new member in the group because alex is not here and I think I saw Alex in the note there so congratulations Alex on the arrival of the new member so yeah very quick update there is we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "have none modifications to the draft what we\u0027ve been doing is working on optimization of the sea shake parameters for payload fragmentation and data integrity over sick folks as a reminder sig Fox has a fixed say size for the payload so in the uplink is 12 bytes in the downlink is 8 so basically we can we can optimize for that one single frame size that that is not changing and that\u0027s idea to to make sure that that we add to the to the best possible numbers for the different applications that we foresee to to use this data integrity and fragmentation so we have two basic scenarios the first one is a single bag header that is right now optimized for minimum overhead in providing an ACK size of 13 bits in the downlink and the other one is two might shake uplink heathered that is optimized for maximum payload with an ax sighs after 43 bits in the downlink so this is more or less what the the simulations look like if we want to push the limits what a single byte header we can go all the way to roughly 300 bytes a little people with that but 300 bytes are comfortably and this is using the icon arrow mode so the idea sorry maybe has to support this payload with as little as a single byte and 13 base needed meaning that in the best-case scenario if there are no fragment losses of course we will use a single a single downlink message to support all those four messages sent in the uplink to support 300 bytes for a 2-byte shake uplink Heather again on the icon or mode we can support all the way to two thousand bytes not only sorry that it\u0027s recommended but that\u0027s what it would work then again one as little as one single act would be needed to support all that payload and in this case it\u0027ll be our 43 bit act that fits perfectly finding there in the sea Fox a downlink so we plan to keep working on this and of course bring in bring it to to implementation to try to test the limits of the protocol and see how we can sorry we can we can further optimize the protocol so that\u0027s it any questions okay thank you and the next presentation will be 25 minutes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:53",
    "text": "okay so here everyone my name is Eva Petrov and I will be presenting the advancement of the sheikah vellore one trust and so he will start by giving you a little bit of context about laura1 then I will present you the changes that happen since the last IDF and then I will tell you what was some of the rationale for the changes that we did and we can have a discussion if you have any ideas or any comment so in Lourdes there are three types of devices three classes those are across a B and C Class A are the most constrained once that can receive down links only after sending me a drink Crosby chef sometimes words at which they can receive darlings and Class C code through C\u0027s downlink anytime obviously this is important in terms of how the fragmentation is specified because sometime ours might differ between the different classes then they are confronting messages that I will also tell you a little bit more about what is our opinion a little bit later and another particularity of flora one is that there are multiple implementations of network servers and device tax which means that there might be some differences in implementations that do not allow to use some of the nice properties of underlying there and so there are parts in the Mac layer headers that could arise ice or that could be useful for us to use name the effort and effort which I will show you in a second how they they are structured and the last particularity that I want to mention right now is that due to some differences in regulations in different countries the maximum size of packets is quite a bit different between optimum redu conditions and supporting mo Radio conditions in some parts of the world so this is also something we have been taking into consideration when providing the parameters for the laura1 or the Sheik fragmentation so as you can see in this picture we have different headers "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:55",
    "text": "in the lower one packets and some of them namely the folks used for optimum session of radio have to write your links and some other things that are below IP but they can vary in size which could make a little bit harder the selection of most optimal parameters for all types of payloads sizes and then there is the effort that I mentioned earlier which is mostly for applications to specify what what is the payload about and I will explain how we use it in order to communicate information related to and she crew ID so since the last IDF in Parc our document was adopted by the working group and it was in version 3 now we have published two new versions and we received some very useful feedback so thank you everyone that gave us has some ideas some recommendations so here are the changes that went in the document since the version that was accepted by the working group I think there\u0027s something in there here I have been talking about some of them at the last idea but they were not part of the chart so as some of them still changed so I will present them again here so we updated the information we\u0027ve dated we got in sync with base document so sorry so we got in sync with the base document and updated some of the terminology and some of the figures to match the base document we decided to switch to icon error for uplink fragmentation and so we believe it to be more optimal for those cases for the downlink fragmentation we decided to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:57",
    "text": "keep the course modest Class A devices we will need to be sending up Linux in order to be able to receive the download links anyway and so we provided some more details how Laura one terminology maps to ITF terminology so that people from both as deals and read the draft easily without having to keep too much information in their heads and we decided to replace the quite generic term devices which seem to be confusing for some readers with the more precise one and devices where it was appropriate so we then decided to split the airport up that we were using for a clique fragmentation into two so that we have one which is more optimal for smaller packets and one that can handle the requirements of ipv6 packets yes those one of the airport is the possibility to be used also for compression whereas this is the F port of default and the airport up short is only for fragmentation basically in F port up short you don\u0027t have any space for additional row IDs so you have effectively only one row ID and in the case for F port of default you have space for other room IDs so one of them is for fragmentation and the rest of them so that we select F word for fragmentation compression Airport circuit the National the ignited that the rule IP and the rest of the paper below after that is different in fragmentation than in compression so actually having silver rule I t4f balrog "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:00",
    "text": "default as know using fragmentation itself and it\u0027s consuming a lot of it\u0027s okay that interesting we can consider it yes the Minich as a ninja you know I think the way it\u0027s described currently I think it\u0027s confusing it\u0027s been this use of F ports and roll numbers it\u0027s basically the way and have had this discussion on the missus is that you the weights country describe it looks like you have actually three instances of shape of the context separately and of course that it\u0027s one of the instances for example the F bought up short this needs one context which has only one room therefore you need three bids and default has an 8-bit a space for good idea so either you I mean there\u0027s nothing wrong with that but then you should describe it this way we have three contexts that are selected by foot or the way I focus on mailing lists you describe normal IDs to include this F fortified and so if we useful ID numbers that have at least eight bits which overlap with the support of Lauren and maybe have some other bits so variable length encoding and the thought up short uses only a bit and which is its value of F port so in the vision of shape this means you have only one context recruits very good idea so either one of the other if obviously agenda is exactly the same you get the same compression same frames out of the but the description would be so pick one of the two but should be clear I think how could you actually proposed text the week okay yeah thank from from Java Rodrigo Munoz is fighting out on some platforms you cannot access the airport so for example in icon okay Olivia is oblivious that it\u0027s possible there so so what if you can come to the mic so I will just hello perfect yeah vertical you can access GF buttons of icon I think it\u0027s the Roman structure that circuit or something like that I can\u0027t find the documentation if you want if "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "it\u0027s a lower one certified device be able to access efforts because it\u0027s the part of the lower one specification thank you so Richard you if you have questions you can find that you know of Olivia and ask him he\u0027ll be glad to help you I\u0027m sure of it ok so I carry on as we have said Paris I sell three bikes in order to be able to optimize for the different radio conditions as I said earlier in some regions the maximum packet size is 11 bytes and in case there is some that are present this might be reduced even further that\u0027s why we decided to keep some flexibility there and yes we updated the terminology to match that of the - 18 version of the sheet raft I mean added extra examples yes the rocker the title 3 bite is just was a shot or is probably it\u0027s forever fragmentation and yes we received some feedback from the chairs that we need to real connect the author list so we did that and yeah we we hand out some minor other comments from the working group as well yes and here is an example of the pellet format so we have at the upper side of the slide the regular packet for the short illusion and which doesn\u0027t fyd and window number and we have in the down part of the site fragmentation where we have those two additional fields so one is for F poor chart and the other for the effort of default in the short version we have detailed accounts and then the pivot and we only use one byte for the additional header yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:06",
    "text": "she typed one bit is expiry is really just going in such case or is it something we can skip I was wondering if the lowercase D type in one bit is the Tigers production the first one in state your name so together but it\u0027s also when you finished your transmission you have to delay and wait if you have some so you must keep your context or a certain period of time so using the de tag another fragment and she came again from chemic so this means that you can mix up to session or to a place with one bit because I believe we said in the beginning of the draft - not until the fragments yes that\u0027s correct I mean so yeah I always surprised to see the tight bits yeah even though you said you don\u0027t intend finally you could do with that I think you I did it just for extra safety think it\u0027s moment okay you think lists for extra safety yeah maybe a little you want to act so system yes he do you me I have connection issues very well perfect so we did detect just days of hello recovery because it\u0027s faster to detect an issue when the detect change but we specify that we don\u0027t want to use and to mix to session at one time because we are in embedded contacts with lot of constraints so it radius provinces and or all memory and RAM needed in microcontrollers and subdued simplify implementations oh good but it was when we thought that it was better to have better light hitters it was a meat neck so it can be discussed and we are open for feedback on that I figured that if you have all sorts of timeouts and rest condition that avoids race conditions with time outs opening somewhere I guess it\u0027s a good idea Thank You Lily okay so yes and over here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:08",
    "text": "you can also see the format of the acknowledgement I hope that doesn\u0027t come as any surprise for people that know the original sheet dropped so we have in the details if it the encoded bitmap in case of an error I mean missing fragment and then padding has made it so caring come for the version two we mostly did some very small changes fixed some figures updated the reference to - 19 and make sure that we are in sync with this version of the trust and fixed some examples and added some more another bushes for example I saw that they are not white bind in the sheet compressions I\u0027m a bit afraid of the implementation issues it can break so the confession residue is not the white line and the paper comes right after so I guess this is the decision you make here but when you get so more rational so the decision for the residues himself to be bit is for compression efficiency so if there\u0027s only one bit of entropy in some field and we only send one bit on the wire and then the question was do we had to abide alignment after the residues before the payload but then I think the reason was that we would get to padding\u0027s and begin case of fragmentation and so we decided would had only once and that why we we stuck the payload right after the residues and we we work under the assumption that shifting is no costs at one CPU cycle and so extracting the bytes with shift doesn\u0027t cost compared to sending a bit link more computation power than transmission on opportunities and there are long threads on the mailing list on that so you can take more and come back to us and ask questions thank you just for to make good point shaking it is quite easy but chichi turkey egg whites like in the example we have might be might be complex for the implementers but okay fine developed I think is the iteration "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:09",
    "text": "thank you thank you so now things that have been discussed as possible coming changes is to remove the restriction of the row ID size basically right now we are saying we recommend people to use the to have ports and have row size of six bits but in some applications that might be insufficient in others it might be Morden enough so the comments that we received to us to try to really organize the draft so that we don\u0027t have these restrictions and this is something we intend to do have some specified varieties that are recommended for fragmentation maybe still keep two of them that is something who you have to to decide I think we\u0027ll keep two of them but in any case the applications should I mean implementers should have the flexibility to decide what is the optimum ROI decides for them and they\u0027re having some small typos and some small details that were missed missing in the draft and that were maybe confusing a little bit implementers so we will be fixing those so now about some more technical details in water there is a bit which is called F pending which can tell an end device that the network has more data to send to it in the draft we explicitly state that we don\u0027t want to rely on this thing because it is not handled very well by some of the implementations so it might cause some issues and similarly for a confirm versus and comfort misuse it is possible for some stacks to send a confirmation before the Sheik payer and the sheet layer can actually attend the extra payload and the confirmation could very well be piggybacked with the Sheik payload so it didn\u0027t make too much sense to use confirmed messages in this wreck we might be sending more messages than needed so now a little bit more details "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:14",
    "text": "why we decided to do step size of tree but after some consideration and running some experiments we found that this is this seems to be the optimal at ourselves if we want to be able to vote from time to time sent some commands using the F hoped header in door one and at the same time be able to say to send big payloads without using too much size in the me in the bitmaps the bigger terms improved the bitmap size but at the same time as I said we have less flexibility so what is remaining right now is to finalize the high D computation there is some text already regarding this thing but I believe it needs to still be improved and I think this is the only pending thing to do except I mean if you receive any more reviews we\u0027ll be more than happy to to discuss if there are other things to change but this is the only thing that came over to us recorders messages antiquity code so the ERC 32 can we use another algorithm in laura1 we do know that is CRC for a standard remedy but we do have the message integrity codes which are based on a ESC map it is it possible to to use them okay Dominique yes your question could be twofold are you talking about removing the Czech fragmentation or implemented and implementing another computation - for the check okay so it\u0027s totally possible and the draft stage is just in 42 with its default polynomial is a recommended algorithm but you can implement your own as long as usually it were passed in or for the purpose so that\u0027s that\u0027s fine thank you so we would like to get some more reviews of course modules are always welcome and we believe that we should be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:14",
    "text": "ready for last call before the next ITF what is the church the process I mean if there are no remaining question and document this table the chairs are more than happy to go for walk up let\u0027s go so I\u0027ve seen just one issue that needs to be resolved is this longer normal efforts in discussion format that\u0027s the only discussion I\u0027ve seen so once you complete that yes we\u0027d like to have one or two reviews from the room just to make sure you know that some things are code before I go let\u0027s go so are there two people in this room could volunteer to review the document judges and even one more hand Dominique okay so please sort out the issue Dominique and then I will ask George us and Dominique is already on it anyway yes but for that one issue yeah but it\u0027s all the rest of document so so so please and then then yes we will do the last column in what\u0027s holding us okay perfect somebody on the drummer yes there\u0027s a question from Joe is it possible to have a stable a variable times depending of the NTU when Sun is free where did you become his free bytes for the tile or could you make it variable by by definition the system by definition the tile size is the fixed value that fits all I\u0027m to use and that\u0027s how the system was built so now I should send you on a variable minimum size and it\u0027s kind of meta redesigning the protocol so know the tight side is really this minimum constant and then the otherwise the a corner doesn\u0027t work are we talking about a corner by the way so Joe and Eve you will get the link is with unity okay so in a corner you need to be able to resend data that was lost and if the MTU has been reduced then you cannot send the same message as you send before you had to send smaller messages and and in the new the data that shows resending needs to fit somewhere in the reassembly buffer and so the tile is this minimum piece that you which you pave the the whole reassembly buffer that\u0027s why it\u0027s fixed and I would like to rephrase what Sergio says maybe because here you take a value of 3 for every year on our products but if a products is just used for in Europe then you you take the u.s. constraint and maybe here you can have hurt so let\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:17",
    "text": "hear what to behavior saying I can we have any views well yeah we decided that for sanctification and also in future we will have ice going from us Europe which with mother so it\u0027s already difficult to have something changing countries we don\u0027t want to add more complexity on that the cost is a wider or bigger but most of the time it would be compressed so it\u0027s acceptable cost makes sense thank you so do we have any questions might be possible to be negotiated a protocol set up yeah I mean for me this might be part of the bootstrapping if there is something we do later maybe we should change this behavior at that time for example yeah you know from killing so you could also define some rule like this with different size we come back to the argument that maybe the implementation will be a little bit more complex but you may be it still something cool to consider it in the same different sizes but then you have the sizes or you could as part of the provisioning for the provision so those three is actually a must or should I mean now is it takes place right now it\u0027s a must I think yeah I think it\u0027s a must vanish you what one day to negotiate you to do another RFC as you will say or no it\u0027s negotiable but further all implementations will have to do three 8s would be that we get so if that\u0027s that\u0027s really what you want that\u0027s what you get okay well we might consider whether it makes sense to make it short or something but it\u0027s okay you can either some sentences that it might be overwritten by some configuration just a sentence like this and some out-of-band methods okay yeah okay thank you thank you okay so a very few slides to present "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:39",
    "text": "two things the first one is data model I think it\u0027s just up to you okay so the data model so to remain you what we have done in the in the draft is that we have a very abstract way to represent the rule so we never say it\u0027s young or we just as definite define it as an array and now we need to have something more formal for different reason first when you took Pascal talked before about interoperability for example if we want to do interpreted testing between two implementations so it\u0027s better to to have a common format we also may need it to two men to have some management it means that for example the device can change some parameter in the Schick controller a compressor we talked about the tie sighs maybe it\u0027s opportunity to do this and extra saw so we need something that is smaller another example is Christian but say that maybe we can do ash the rule to be sure when for security reason that we are using the same rule and of course if we do a hash we need at the two end of the same similar presentation so we have to study a way to represent in a compact way because we are in compact device in an easy way this information that\u0027s why we are going to investigate young model to see if it fits all the requirement we need for this this management so we have already a draft but will expire soon but present to first young model lastly ITF I presented also something that was more evolved on envision model but we are reaching our limits in annyeong so that\u0027s why we we asked the idea we the chair to see if we can have contact with the young doctor to see if we are starting well and we don\u0027t make some big mistakes that will appear in the future as a restriction so you saw my request to the management ad a couple of weeks ago for a young doctor slot I really hoped like you would have a young doctor assigned to us by now but unfortunately it didn\u0027t happen so just keep looking at it to get something done and so if nothing happens I\u0027ll probably talk to the secretary of the again it\u0027s Mehmet so I\u0027ll probably try and see if I can get a response the end or Chris directly okay thank you so this is a physical point so we will shoot soon a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:40",
    "text": "new version of a young model and this one can be the base for discussion the other point that comes from during the last call with core working group so we had a proposal from Caston that say that we for example we have co-op option and for the moment we define in LP one a name for each co-op options so for the moment it\u0027s okay because it\u0027s think that is internal to an application but when we will go to that young model of course we don\u0027t want to make twice the work on a core is defining some co-op option and then LP one we have to redefine another space for visco up option so one proposal but we have to discuss it is for example to reserve in the seed space that represent all the value we are manipulating in in shake so some space for the co-op option and for example here when we will have us ure profits value 11 so it will be the 11th place in this space on Exeter Xterra so when core we create new co-op option then automatically it will be present here and we don\u0027t have to do any translation currently the drawback of this is that we have to to take a 65 thousand places just for the seed space which can be a lot so I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s reasonably or not to do that because the seed space can be very very huge so it\u0027s a possibility so do we have to do it for co-op option do we have to do it for over value but we will find on protocol we we compress so currently that\u0027s an open question and I would like to have your opinion on it you don\u0027t need to reserve the 65,000 you can really pick 16,000 or even less and then you will have a continuation code and you will pick a different range later so it\u0027s not obliged to take the 65,000 right now so you can take this approach with no right now I think you can have up to 1000 seats in one talk but if you decide to go this way maybe we can change this or just just invent the continuation code like if you see almost 1,000 it means go somewhere else just-just you\u0027ll have more wrenches with trenches of coop tons of ways of doing it without booking the 65,000 I\u0027m sure you so the next presenter will be me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:57",
    "text": "okay so this is a result of we had the working group last call on the coop compression it was also sent to the core working group to have their feedback so here is a result of this curve so we move from now we are in version 9 of the so we have comments from both groups about what we are doing in this document so thank you for all the reviewer we are also coming from Christian but we took this week so it\u0027s not here it\u0027s about to make a rash of the rules the context in both sides when you are doing Oscar and include this ash in the ad when you are doing the encryption so this way you are sure that both devices or the device and the Chico are using the same rules for the compression so it\u0027s avoid to have confusion if for example you you could get into a deal anis understand as a debit and of course you you will have some bad behavior so that\u0027s something we have also to include so from my point of view it\u0027s quite difficult right now to push it because we need this data model before doing it because of course if both side user jizan the and you have one space in one J\u0027son definition and those space in the other one so the ash will be different and it would be difficult to to manage so it\u0027s something interesting but how to integrate it right now I don\u0027t see really how to do it you want so in v8 we we have only some text edition so nothing new and in v9 we introduce or see also command from the co-working group it was about ossification on the risk to say okay I am compressing this way and then the coop protocol will not evolve anymore because we have defined it\u0027s version 1 or we have a rule that say we have this and this and listen if something new appears in in a co-working group when it it will maybe block by the fact that she cannot evolve so this is something that is not really a problem from the ship point of view because she is very generic and when the device evolve then the rule with evolve and if when everything is designed as a field we have a way to compress it to manipulate it so is not reader problem "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:57",
    "text": "but we had some text to say that there is no risk of ossification with leaf Shiki ok so here is what I say before with custom remark is what puts co-op space into into shake so this way you don\u0027t have trouble and I cover this point with the data model and so we finished with walking or sass call all the ticket has been closed and we answer all the questions so now I turn to the chance what\u0027s the next step well the next step is to find a Shepherd so probably elack\u0027s but otherwise we might I mean if somebody is interested in in trying the exercise of being the Shepherd of this document we can help that person through the process to solutes interesting learning curve so always open the Shepherd is not named right now so but if I appear to take around years if anybody wants to try the game you want to try to be a shepherd I will excuse roads it\u0027s not I have been shepherding I might have a little bit more locked on cozy but that I you see and if I have time for this come back to Alex and me yes are you sure I can fix somebody like you so I\u0027ll just like look for somebody in like probably even outside the group to just do it just to okay please I mean because it\u0027s open I mean I like to have new eyes basically that gives us an additional review and show scrutiny it\u0027s always good quick comment from Alexander pillow perfect thanks to that [Music] hello again this is an update on the OEM draft so the purpose of this draft is to discuss the OEM methods and protocols for IOT II in the context of shake so we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:59",
    "text": "want to start with really simple stuff things that people do expect when they have IP connectivity so they expect ICMP error messages when something goes wrong along the path the one who they want to be able to ping the destination and maybe run a traceroute to troubleshoot initial problems and we want to discuss what and define what we want to do in the context of IOT does that all make sense you know how do we all know that in first - keep it simple we want to address the methods and messages in RC 44-43 and not the extended stuff so this is a come to a question shortly this is a kind of scenarios we considered so this is already a year all oops wrong button obviously from the internet if you have IP connectivity people want to as I said Kathy ICMP a v6 or message bags want to be able to do a ping a trace valve so what do we do if the the problem happens somewhere here on the everyone what kind of respond do we send back do we want to propagate those into the lp1 network or not is it safe is it reasonable etc and also on DL in the other way probably we want an ICMP v6 error message back from the device if it sends an ipv6 message but we don\u0027t explain the device to run a traceroute because it says nobody just no keyboard whatever so this is probably not something we want to consider a thing might be something realistic for a device to do so this raft is first discussing the use cases and then providing solutions Chilean here on today you answered my question jr. from killing random dress is it in reading useful to run tres tres roads in lp1 architecture because the last office should be none or is this actually adding that and political device identities that you Angela okay once we can imagine our sewage at the traceroute stop at compressor and you have a specific message versus three after about thirty one network so that could be interesting that could be a security issue yeah it\u0027s really a discussion written by no means to II think we have the definite answer to our discussion so it\u0027s really debated in static bridge so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:00",
    "text": "since Pascal two layers and individual contributor since you\u0027ve mentioned Europe I sit here I know where so it\u0027s like your honor I\u0027m aware of like yahuwah by code indicate why it\u0027s not read the context of shake or all in one but similar it\u0027s cold in something like the gateway would actually offload the or processing from the device and we secrete generators in paris on behind effective device that can be Mecca file since any logical function like back but do that okay so say sorry P on this okay I\u0027m Bob mosque which I\u0027m looking at your slide there are only intended it of this and type of the top hearing you know ipv6 on the top and icmpv6 underneath is there some cific some intimation of why the directions are named differently or is it yeah we\u0027re creaming to describe here is scenario so we\u0027re saying we think it would be interesting for a device when they send an ipv6 message out and there\u0027s some issue with his ipv6 message in the network that they are able to achieve the icmpv6 our message back and conversely on the other side but definitely we have ipv6 flowing both ways and icmpv6 flowing both ways but this is a scenario on the device side and scenario okay that\u0027s why the the top comes with it thank you for the comment anyway so we haven\u0027t honestly we\u0027re having worked at all on this since last meeting how except for this hackathon where I roll implemented this part so we got the code into the the Chicot on this side and when we said ping from the internet then the shakur instead of forwarding the ping and compressing it and forwarding to the device will respond with an echo reply on behalf of the device and the way we did it which is interesting is kind of reuse the the compressor implementation which has a matching thought we look at ROS and we have a matching pattern and then we apply it for compression and then we added a few hooks such that when this matching part matches then we call a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "special code that sends I echo reply back so just a point of reference we have some of this working so that use case is it going to be something to make sure that the end device is actually alive before replying with a ping back to do because otherwise you\u0027re not making sure that they will respond with a finger right that\u0027s a very valid question it\u0027s all part of the discussion that needs to take place in and it revives this discussion is what do we want to do what do we expect certainly not responding to the pin ping at all is probably a bad idea in general because people expect that you know they have an ipv6 device and they have some host with an ipv6 address expect to get someone so back to the pin but what can of answer do we want to send how long as the device been I mean how far back has a device been seen for us to decide that we want to send a reply I don\u0027t know could be an hour could be a day very much depends on the network on a class of device if it\u0027s Class A Class C of course is if it\u0027s Laura one person you expected expect an immediate answer back if its class here you understand that it may be sleeping you know four hours in a row so it\u0027s all part of the discussion on the opening question and if you don\u0027t see any traffic so you don\u0027t answer so this way this management tool you can see if your device is active it\u0027s simulating the liveliness of the device and you know repeat five minutes just for running the test but okay so next steps unchanged from last time discuss the use cases on the mailing list I will revive this discussion definitely is there some other useful Orion stuffs that we want to do in the take vo t and l t1 and then implement and play with this stuff okay no more questions [Music] [Music] okay hello everyone my name is Carlos "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:03",
    "text": "Gomez and I\u0027m going to present an update of the draft and title RTO considerations in lp1 so first of all a reminder on the motivation for this document we have that in many lp1 scenarios we have longer build on our titties in ideal scenarios we may have our titties already in the order of seconds or tens of seconds and due to a number of phenomena we may also have higher order our titties with values up to several minutes or even more so as a consequence the rtt nlp-1 and also that the variant of the RTT is much greater than the typical one on the internet for comparison the default RTO in TCP is currently one second and the default Artyom coop is randomly chosen between two and three seconds so we have these particular RTD characteristics in LP ones however we also have returns mission timers for example when we use coop in LP one and we send a con message there will be a retransmission timer running and also she defines two modes I call ways and I can read that use retransmission time as well so the question here is okay how do we deal with these particular characteristics of our titties in LP one so the status of the document is as follows the initial version of the draft was presented in Prak it contained an analysis of what we now call the uplink RTD this is a round trip where the first message is in the airplane the the response comes in the downlink and also it contained proposal for an algorithm for the RTO and in this update we have added this terminology of a planar t teardown linearity by the way the latter is the opposite so the first packet is in the downlink in that case and also we\u0027ve added a downlink RTD analysis also in this presentation I\u0027ll show an example of some preliminary evaluation whose the proposed RTO algorithm obtained by simulation so regarding the downing RTD analysis we can identify that it comprises two components the first one is the wait time until the next uplink transmission and this is because in technology such as sick fox or Laurel one plus a a downlink packet can only be sent in a dedicated time window that has been offered as a result of a previous uplink transmission therefore this this component this wait time will depend on the application and it might take values such as in the order of seconds minutes hours although it\u0027s true that there are also some special cases where if we know in advance that we want to perform when do we want to perform a downlink transmission it would be possible also to program beforehand some bling "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:04",
    "text": "transmission so that it might be possible to minimize this component ideally even down to zero and then the second component in the downing RT team would be the time since the uplink has been completed until the whole darling RTD has been completed and we call this second component a basic darling RT which I understand well this is plus a yes so these numbers are only for the second component yes so this is after the uplink has been done yeah so we have other theoretical analysis similar to the one that already existed in the document that was for the Appling RTD now we have added these numbers which correspond to basic down leaner tt for lor 1 plus a and also for sig folks for a variety of well data rates and Appling mid rates respectively and the conclusion is similar to the one that we identified for the appli- values which is that in many cases we have RTS which are already greater than the default co-op RTO then in the document there\u0027s also discussion of approaches for the RTO so in perhaps in some cases delay might not be relevant for the implication so in that case what one can do is to set the RTO to the highest expected RTD in order to avoid spurious retries and that\u0027s it however if delay is actually relevant for the application meaning that it makes a difference to retry after one second compared to retrying after 100 seconds and also if we expect to find higher-order are titties in our scenario then we might consider using an algorithm such as the one that\u0027s presented here we call it dual RTO algorithm and it is basically a two-state machine where there\u0027s two separate RT log rhythms used there is the high RTO state which uses one RT algorithm which is initialized to values that are compatible with higher titties then there\u0027s a lower T or state which uses a separate RT algorithm which is consistent with lower TD values so for example if we are in the hierarchy of state and then we obtain a number of consecutive lower TT samples then the mechanism switches to using the low RTO algorithm and vice-versa in the other case so this is just an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:06",
    "text": "example to illustrate what we could get when we compare what happens if we are using a standard single TCP RTL which corresponds to the curve in red here in this figure we show the RTL values produced by this standard TCP RTL compared with the ones that will be produced by the dual RTO rhythm which are the ones in green when there\u0027s as an input the sequence of RTD values that are shown in blue in the figure as you can see this sequence in this example is basically that RT DS are by default low like around one second and then there are a couple of intervals in which the RT T\u0027s are around 100 seconds and we can observe that the TCP RTL so if you use a single RTO here it struggles with the variance of the RTD that\u0027s the result of the change of the RTT state and the tcp RTO produces very large values even up to 300 seconds you can see also that it takes some time to converge for the single TCP RTO and also the worst case is when the RTT is already in one second and meanwhile during this conversions phase after a transition of the RTD values the TCG RTO is stained with values of 300 200 100 seconds in contrast with the dual RTO as soon as there\u0027s the detection of change of the RTD State it switches to the appropriate RTO algorithm by the way in this simulation what we use is to separate TCP rtos however one is initialized to values compatible with high art it is the other one is suitable for low art it is and as you can see the dual RTO is able to follow the RTT much closer than the tcp RTO so one consideration here is that it is actually possible or that\u0027s the assumption to know a priori in advance which will be the higher T T values for example if the high art ET intervals are due to packets being buffered in a gateway that then can only be sent because of some uplink transmission that allows that downlink transmission then it means that the RTT is actually related it depends with the time between public message also another observation is that the amount of improvement that can be achieved will depend on the actual statistics for example the duration of the high or low RTD intervals so well this was just an example and well there are some questions for the group and one is okay is there interest in this work and then if yes then there\u0027s a related "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:06",
    "text": "question which is okay this document contains somewhat hybrid content like informational content about settings for the RTO but also then also an experimental kind of algorithm for the RTL and also connected with transport area stuff so what do you think so my feeling is that we have a cross layer issue that\u0027s the main thing which is like basically you kept this timeout but authorities at the Italia which says a probably my message was not received and this is good that might be an utterly acknowledgements sitting on the Gateway but your promise deployed there is chicken leg between finding out and device and message because if you turn out to send a message we\u0027ll pull it but then it will also give information to the other side that something was lost which is not the case so because it\u0027s just waiting for you on the Gateway so so we are missing this this interface between yeah probably when I transport or occupation above co-op well by the transport application when it turns out instead of creating a real application in the development when it\u0027s it what you will retry whatever first that\u0027s something which has a result of pulling stuff and then if that doesn\u0027t work then we will timeout caliper but I think we need to describe that model because it\u0027s pretty new to to the model well you need a message me up to message that doesn\u0027t go further than the Gateway to just try and teach it so that\u0027s the first thing I need to calculate that now the second thing I have is no I don\u0027t believe that you can without any cost layer interaction like that that you can tell what the bounded value is for the because the query will tell you that if you get more message from the network into the gate wake you know you get them faster than that you program but that chicken become internet right in theory so so it\u0027s a quiz infinitum it\u0027s being an addendum I\u0027m cheetah the speed at which you pull it then killed on the uphill can go into it as well so we must have some methods to control the size of the queue on the gateway escort so so bigger scheme in which this thing whirls described until now we have already we have taken the device as a device that we know but I think you know t1 networks a device is quite different not only have added different entities each sentence differently it\u0027s a symmetric timers have different so the response is different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:35:07",
    "text": "[Music] so I need some new configuration compared to these lp1 networks thank you I understand that next up would be trying to identify like which are which is the the set of parameters perhaps not only RTT as you say - my man comes for example inactivity timers may also have some dependencies some relationship with this content and yes from there we might be able to see if it makes sense to to consider set of parameters performance parameters or behavior parameters in the same document or perhaps if there\u0027s some different nature like studied them separately yes also Chariton I would really welcome a prime statement document which explains what that implication of this pool model on the upper layers like like TCP or whatever application of a co-op once we understand what the primes are then we can look at solutions like this right but we need a greater context so the first thing is probably to write this problem statement and yes I would welcome that beautiful stone did you consider Marcos modeling for this program I\u0027m not yet but it\u0027s very important because we\u0027ve Sheik we are ID the fact that we are behind an empty one network so we have to adapt a server very important to us thank you thank you calles do we have any more discussion on this topic means probably one of our more critical topics to discuss with in the future so nothing ok so the last topic probably Suresh is the rich offering games so I do not for again the slides which we presented them a number of times I can we just need to point on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:09",
    "text": "I ATF 101 instead of H and 105 from the data tracker so basically the bottom line is we are we have split the first item of the agenda into what is complete which is the mention document what is well on the way which is the chic of the full document which should adapt the she profiles for the particular technologies and then the chic profile itself which will be the young model that we have now and so suit up basically the three main items and we have added a new item in the proposed charter for what has become the the ICMP OAM draft right so this is pretty much what we are asking so rush how do you see you next faced with it looks you know we have documents for this as data items we are very good shape already presented HF 101 it\u0027s not change just like put the Chapman and sell it to me I\u0027ll put it inside the rechecking process in the IAC I just wanna wait till the sig document is done with the ESG so that\u0027s like I think 22nd or something and then she called the text to me I\u0027ll put in a new version of Charter and this like part of the steps to go through so I need to do like an informal review an internal review and an Excel each of them is about like two weeks not six weeks one time we\u0027ve been working for one year plus on the chata items anyway it\u0027s just it\u0027s just that so the discussion to of today about this FTO and Crossley your issues due to the pull model no you have to send a message to get a message back the more and more we talk about it the more it seems like it\u0027s an important topic for us so should we modify that shorter as you\u0027ve seen it since last year or two twelve topic like this problem statement to start with I think is it enough interested in doing it and then the a conscience is just everything okay okay so we go so many lists ask if we have interest in this broad segment and I guess the actual discussion will come naturally out of the work and then we shot operative no people are ready for it okay and that allows a little the deliverables right so I have a mind stone for it and so on if it\u0027s missed your put the chapter the ETSU go gone but also had a deliverable so it if it\u0027s just a problem statement or you want to work on future and so on right so that\u0027s kind of like make them little bows because like lot of the times and people are saying okay what do you want to deliver that\u0027s not like society keep those two separate because like one of them we can change easier than the other so make sure it\u0027s in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:41:10",
    "text": "Charter and so I mean question to the room right now right to be put the prime statements an obvious one that we already put the RTO in the new Charter is it something I mean I would like to get the purse of the robe I mean are we ready to work on the FTO already does it make sense for everybody please if you think we should shop include ear to your discussion guys presented in the next charter please harm I repeat because the harm was light if you think business and wake up no I just want to make sure because I see please listen if you if you care about the after your work in these working groups so we already include it in the chapter please hum if you don\u0027t think this group should work on out your problems please have but the train doesn\u0027t want to occur this is a nagging and Harwell work in a world language and worship I missed your question enough how I\u0027ll make lightweight m2m over chicken into a more Chico Chico ah compression right with him - okay meaning is I mean we have three weeks so we we\u0027ve proven quite efficient on the technologies we have so we are doing this the LMS thing already I mean some people are working on it so why not I mean if there is document I mean I would like to see the document right maybe maybe start with the document show us that there is something to do and well you need to publish like in the coming weeks though okay so we will pull the mailing list on this it would be great to have a document which shows you know what what kind of Delta I\u0027ve just no clue what\u0027s missing in Sheikh as it stands today to do lightweight them to add me there are new methods or if it\u0027s more like the coop one so please publish something so - I understand what the prophets defining a few more compression options and then describing that it can be done with the technology and system technology cause it needs to be explored so it\u0027s pretty much like co-op then the same degree of work I mean please please stop the dock yesterday is that the food "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:13",
    "text": "charter or because well my question is do we have any move way to to provide the sender nothing rules but yes so if if you care let\u0027s let\u0027s go through through those slides again so basically that was the current that was the old shelter okay and so the old shutter are the very big item one so ATM to which was which we actually split as you can see okay and then they will go through chapter two so the rework charter so the chapter - yes exactly so we split those things into so the shake is what we are so this your question is the icon - I guess it\u0027s the data model right okay and so items raised all the technology specific documents and the only new item really from the old Charter was this OAM work that Dominic has presented alright so all those things we\u0027ve been discussing today so the young model is I came to in the new Charter and now we will add an item which would discuss the primes due to the full model and as deliverables who would have a prime statement and a work on fgo that would be the new thing and then probably yet another deliverable to be added to actually items 3 so items with a sheik well is it items REO item 1 about you know like to attend to a commercial right a library and included ok so yes the profile is exactly for that we\u0027ll need documents in the profile game we need a document which can have Express Express is how we expect to push the profile the new format on both sides and probably that will be a need for a provisioning flow which explains how that happens and if we if we actually sign the rules then we have to explain how we make it so that the rules that are the same on both sides is signature works so so all this should be in a document somewhere ok and we had a last item for today which was a presentation of a 22.8 info by Charlie and Bob but as it goes as charlie is not there I did not register the mythical so I guess we will rethink what\u0027s going on that potato 2.15 for at the next IETF which means that we so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:23",
    "text": "okay so okay [Music] [Laughter] "
  }
]