[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:31",
    "text": "so actually i am i do see something on edge dock now um where christian just wrote c minutes at um and i guess that's it's a it's a different um it's it's an it's another edge dog document okay um okay right and so why are you not both of them one was created by the echo and the one was created by data tracker something weird that got the whole notes blah blah blah and the other one and then random number oh well whichever works yeah well in my case feel free to to copy paste what i i've brought in whichever notepad i mean a hedgehog i opened i i think i followed the link from the the invitation of the data tracker okay so maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "yeah let's start now um so again if you have any anything to um if you have anything to say um just jump into the discussion um this is an um an inter meeting of ace it is subjected of the note well um if you're not aware of the note well um we should have had a fla a slide on that but let me know i see someone in a queue you want to say something see young we're not hearing you if you're saying something hello hello uh what is the topic of tonight meeting so um that's on the agenda um but now i'm unable to see the agenda because so okay right thank you so um so i mean um what we're doing is a status of the working group and there is one presentation i think which is from um marco he's going he's going to make an update on the key group com and key group from oscar um and i don't know if goran has a prison intent to present something yes i i uploaded very late some slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:02",
    "text": "here but i think you need to accept them somehow or oh okay right yeah i'll do that then um so so that's as far as i know that's the two presentation we are having so let's start with the update so where we are i mean this is my view i am happy if you i mean um if you have a other things to add so um cmpv2 i have the impression that this is in the plate of the r80 so what would be nice is that we do we do not delay that too much so that we can follow i mean the draft follows what is being done on cmpv3 with lamps so but that's uh currently in our in our ad to handle that uh keygroup com is going to be updated um today um with marco's presentation but currently we have the key group column that is submitted to the isg at i mean at least for quite a long time i think it's 200 days something like that 220 and keegar primo score um there is some synchronizations to be done with score um but that's gonna be explained in more detail was marco um unless marco wants to add something right away now that's a great overview thanks okay i see um um cion and andrik in the line xion please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "do we have a problem with the queue why why you delete a sum you you said that you deleted some i i wanted to know the rule the reason why did you delete some what did i deleted no i think there is a misunderstanding between um i mean it's a problem of uh uh edge node edge dark so we have different documents that are linking each together and um um that's a that's a that's all but we did not delete anything unless is there is is there anything you're missing okay thank you okay um yeah so please and rick yeah um thanks daniel i was just wanted to ask um on the cmp of co-op draft i know it is in the ad review but i haven't seen any any updates since a while and uh just wanted to to yeah check whether i missed something or whether there is still work on going i think the current graph version is outdated in the meantime"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "yeah so um this is actually we i have been trying to reach um the authors um they were telling us that they they were i committed to uh submit an update but that was three months ago um i i mean um i know paul um asked me to clarify this synchronization with cmpv3 um but at that point i think the only thing we were um um we were trying to prevent is that this draft being ahead of tmpv3 uh for um the only concern was just um um um the inf registration at some point yeah so but i think we are far from that um i i do i do not have the impression that this document is going to be um moving ahead um but i don't think it's blocking for cmpv3 am i correct yeah currently it is blocking the clp updates draft and um there was some things with the ayanna registration on the well-known path to be aligned and clarified based on the ad review feedback we did that in some months ago and in the meantime cmp updates where this is the iana registration is done is already done and ready for publication but also waiting for a cmp updates to be um processed okay okay and what is the blocking aspect of that is that i i registration"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "the the sections the references with regard to the ayana registrations right okay and could we move that to a cmp update or it does it has to stay in the co-op transport cmp updates is just updating the http transfer and therefore we cannot add topics regarding coac transfer there this is why okay there was no no draft on co-op transfer before and this is the reason why we have this draft okay so um one thing i i mean if the document is not um moving um um as we expect um would it be something you you could you could consider editing the document and moving the document forward i i could imagine supporting the authors i already was in touch with moed here and then and offered support but he he said no support needed and he will come up with an update but i haven't haven't seen anything yeah okay so i take that on my side um i will try to push for um to clarify if the update can be published um i we know i i'm planning by the end of this month um this month's being probably july or june um so yeah i will try to make that and worst case um i will try to see if we can put you as a co-author so um you can move the draft yeah i'm happy to support that because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "um also for the lightweight cmp profile document we would need this draft otherwise we would need to apply changes and and carve out the cmp related stuff okay right yeah yeah and i will also try to push um our ad to move the document a little bit faster i i think the the token was with more to update with regard to the feedback from the ad review and um i think that is where where the draft is got stuck yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah that that is correct but um i want him to be aware that when he received back the token is not okay i mean we should speed up the the delay between the the the query response and that kind of uh delay but yeah i will do that right after the meeting and okay feel free to uh to contact us the chairs if um there is anything that is uh not um as you expect okay thanks daniel thank you hendrick so i i still see xian in the in the in the queue i'm wondering if you want to add something or if it's an older hand okay so um extended dtls authorized so to for that purpose um my impression is that we are just missing a procedure uh which is ipr related so we are trying to clarify that with the co-authors"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "um co-op eep i mean it has been submitted so we're basically waiting for um the review from the id and so the current working group is um work i'm hearing someone does anyone okay so um the current working group is um is focused on three document which is the revoked token notification os core gm admin and the pub sub profile i'm wondering if sigdam wants to say something about the pepsi profile sure um the previous version basically addressed the architectural change so that we aligned better to key group com terminal with kdc and authorization server it also handles the previous issues about authorization requests and it was kind of left there now i'm working to align the document further with keygroup com to explain how we interface to the kdc beyond join request and response currently the remit of the document is just explaining authorization to be able to participate in a group plus key requests and responses but the interface requires to understand how to evict group members as well as re-keying which is not addressed in the current document so that's one of the things that i'm working on to define and uh in summary basically making sure that we the profile addresses all the requests required conditions that the profile needs to meet to be able to be considered as key group com profile"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "um there are a few issues with the document because it uses uh cryptographic constructs that were that are not currently very up-to-date and i have to resolve with francesca some of our choices uh for instance in use of kosekis and kosa encrypt zero um structures um and um so there there will be a new version hopefully once i align the document but will there will be still to do's in those document and then i'm hoping yet another version after i get the you know the working group uh comments on or francesca's comments on the uh changes that need to be made for those to do so that's my update at the moment okay pretty good one of the things that i'm also thinking about is that the document was revised so that it gave kind of an equal voice to both co-op and mqtt i actually now looking at how the kdc interface works um would like to put mqtt on a kind of a secondary stage it may be a solution drafted because compared to the mqtt ttls profile where http based handshake is supported this is basically requiring a coab based kdc interaction uh that needs to be supported to uh provision the clients with the correct keys and etc all the time which might be a stretch so i'm thinking of focusing the document more on co-app and then adding a maybe an optional support for mqtt given that there is a actor that would talk co-app on behalf of the mqtt clients so that's another thing that i'm i've been toying thinking about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "okay perfect anyone wants to add something about um no so um i'm i i'm going to ask logan to maybe confirm that we have um okay i don't see all the slides um i'm going to do a refresh okay so we have all the presentations before we do the presentation i'd like to see the noteworld slide um maybe logan can you you probably have to validate the noteworld slide i just uploaded it all right maybe i did receive something no no i'm gonna check logan can you see the the slide i submitted well i don't see any so please please be aware that the note was la and the noteworth applied to this meeting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "and um i suppose uh it's gonna be solved when marco will present his presentation so go ahead marco yes thanks uh for what it's worth i do see the not 12 slides oh you do see the network material yeah it's there you're on slides are not visible there yet current slide or not okay so can i present from the uploaded pdf slideset yeah so just now do you see my note well or do you see the notebook slide no no i have to um so how do we go there um should i go in the presentation view or okay then i misunderstood you are going to share the slides from your screen or something yeah no so i mean share the note well and then take your slide okay go ahead so so marco i expect you to show uh the not well and then you go on with your slide i see okay okay sure it's because i thought you you had taken the hand on the presentation never mind i can share my screen okay can you grant me permission oh yeah do okay so i have to oh yeah okay i wanted to avoid this so i thought you already had taken the permission well okay this is not well everyone okay so if you have any question please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "raise them now i don't see any questions so marco you can go with your presentation sure here it is um so this is a consolidated joint update of the two drafts keeger komm and kyro kamal score um i submitted an update for both of them uh last week uh about kickercon uh yes it has been in a review since end of last year i think and i had a few updates in the queue for a while and i hesitated because i didn't want to confuse paul but i had the opportunity in philadelphia to discuss about this with daniel and paul and it was fine to incorporate anywhere anyway these changes after as paul suggested double checking again with the working group so that's why my my mail to the mailing list in july and no objections were received and the result was then the follow-up update of version 16. um referring to that mail it was mainly about two conceptual updates named update one and two in the mail one about um a change in the way it is possible to optionally signaling the scope semantics and the access token and now considering only seaboard tags like building on what is defined in in seabor file magic and then update you about relaxing a bit the restrictions on the toid parameter when using a aif to express a scope anything else was pretty much editorial and in the queue since um euron's review of the other document uh keyground oscar and that was also reminded uh in that mail and on the first update again we were having already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "the optional possibility to explicitly signal the semantics of scope in the access token only where i can remind that scope is basically by string wrapping an array of scope entries let's say one per group and then in turn can be relying on aif on a more simple textual format now the old approach was about having one sieber tag uh once and for all registered and used uh to signal the fact that we were doing this kind of thing at all and then having basically another layer of wrapping where together we scope we were transmitting also an integer to be registered for the specific semantics of scope to use but then at some point we had um an alternative proposal from christian thanks a lot i think it was really good idea uh was issue 144 now adopted here where basically we got rid of the integer uh there's only um one zebra tag pair semantics um to be possibly registered and used to tag a scope to indicate its semantic i said possibly register because in most of the cases i expect the tag to be already registered anyway because especially if you use aaf and define related media type parameters for the toid and the perm of the specific data model that is supposed to result in the registration of a content format which in turn as per rfc 9277 will result in the registration of an associated seaboard tag and that's the silver tag we would use uh to signal that semantics of scope so the notation becomes clear and and the practical signaling becomes simpler that was update one and as to update two i said it was about relaxing uh the expected encoding of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "uh to describe scope entries we were really strict to expect uid to be no matter what a sieber text string i relaxed it a bit in saying that well that's indeed the case to expect in case we define an af data model intended like in this document to cover the roles that joining nodes want to have in the group so nothing changes for the main cases we have had in mind all along meaning joining nodes but it's something useful for a data model used in oscore gm admin which in turn extends the data model defined first of all in keygroup score where we can have scope entries for admin users to define operations that they can perform as administrators of groups where tyd out of a discussion at itf 113 uh maybe not necessarily receiver by string but something different to express uh patterns of group names rather than an exact name or as an extreme case even a wild card but again nothing really changes practically for the the main case we care the most about joining nodes uh yeah i don't go through this just for the reference this is a list of uh the editorial related updates where um consistent with the number of other documents and the meaning of the parameters i renamed parameters messages and some specific uh uri path segments okay and that was keygroup calm on keygram oscar we actually had the first revision already for the july meeting which was mostly about addressing the working group was called comments we received from yoran thank you very much for that and it was mostly about uh restructuring the table of content of the document and i'm pretty happy with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "the current results i i think it reads uh way better uh than before and also about giving uh some clarification of uh what exactly peak from the cosi algorithm registry uh to refer to an hkdf algorithm just like the way the oscar rbc does and consistent with things i mentioned before and following a discussion with christian indiana at itf 113 there was also a revision of the af data model defined here to work exactly as it was supposed to work already for the sake of this document meaning joining nodes but written in a way that it can be extended and in fact is extended in the asgm admin document where again the same data model is extended to make it possible to have some scope entries instead expressing an authorized operations for group administrators and like we discussed also um in vienna you may in principle have a single scope in the same token containing a mix of scope entries for a joining node and some other scope entries instead for an administrator and they can be distinguished and and they can potentially also coexist but for the sake of this document yeah it was about revising the data model to be still a single one extended in the other gm admin document and that happened for the july meeting basically where we did a meet but then i made a second update uh last week uh this is a relatively minor update and it was mostly to ensure consistency with uh the one i presented before uh for key group com so mostly alignment in names in your ipad segments and so on and adapting the text related to the optional signaling of the scope"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "cementing semantics with the zebra tag and i also noted that some text related to when the dtls profile is used between the joining of the group manager requires some clarification and now in case the access token is specifically transported during the details details handshake message rather than before separately i specified clearly where exactly the token should be put in which exact message depending on using version one two and one three of dtls consistent with what the dtls profile says and that's it so to summarize on keyground i have no other pending actions i'm aware on and we wait for the id review for keyboard commascore it's most important consistent with key group com again i don't have pending actions here either but i just wonder if there were more comments to be expected from yorano or anyone uh other than that yeah we mentioned before the need to sync with uh core uh that was suggested by francesca some time ago it was about requesting publication at the same time of three documents um kira kamos korenas and two documents in core where for core group on this is one of those it's a working group last call we are expecting some more minor comments to incorporate and we are expecting that the first wave of comments that we addressed with the latest resubmission are actually good enough to proceed the other document is oscar group com it's in waiting for shepherd right up so waiting for that and the shepherd review we have a pending action for us as authors to work on a new version anyway where we plan to specify better how response messages are supposed to be a handle so we expect at least one more revision"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "on the good side uh that update is i believe not supposed at all to have any impact on keygroup common score anyway and that should be the last slide yes thank you i guess you're still with me yeah yeah please go ahead um i suspect xian is not in the queue are you in the queue so i will remove you from the queue um see them go ahead sorry um thank you uh marco this is not a question related to the presentation now but a general question to the ace key group com now that i'm reading it in detail and fresh in my memory in the return response joint response there is a credits parameter and if you have the credits you have to have peer you must have the peer roles and peer ids uh for the specific profile for the pops up there are very distinct roles like pubs are only the ones who have the credits and subscribers can only are the only ones who would be asking so the peer roles is a kind of a space-taking thing when the um profile is very clear when and which roles could be asked for um so it would be an area of pop up for the all the keys received possibly could this be avoided or why was the payrolls a must and uh could it be a may or should or something more than moved"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:06",
    "text": "do you mean because you can imply the only role involved anyway yeah subscribers yes exactly so there are very distinct uh steps each of the type of roles can take and pups are the only ones allowed to provide credentials to the kdc the way it's written now and the subscribers are the only ones to request these and pops shouldn't etc etc so um when you return the response and you have the credits parameter that i the peer roles would be only containing basically for each of the credentials returned which to me is a space-taking thing because the profile defines very well which role is allowed to do that anyway so i was thinking whether there was a reason behind making that a must basically well the reason i believe was we couldn't think of any exception to make it issued the idea was to pair the public key with the exact role or roles associated with that um yeah i can definitely see the the role of the ids which makes a uh but yeah in this i guess i provided the exception now in this one there cannot be anything else but the pub role anyway for this and so it will be just sending redundant information in an array that is as long as the publisher list for that particular group so it's to me a space-taking thing but just wanted to clarify whether this is something that was strongly a must for some reason in the document i prefer to double check again by got should should work fine anyway especially if we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "point to this exact exception um please send me a mail describing this and i will check again the detail um in case well i'd like to hear from more people in the working group and if it's fine to you to postpone possibly an update to when processing the the ad review just to avoid yet another submission only about this around this time interval okay i'll send you an email and uh describe what i mean um and uh yeah otherwise it's okay it's not affecting the correctness of the operation it's just an overhead in the response message at the moment yeah we will have to introduce something uh possibly in the pubs profile again say well you need to say if you do that and if you don't it's because you can build on a safe assumption like yeah the one you were explaining the role is implied thank you any feedback on this anyone by the way garan do you want to say something yeah i i just wanted to briefly comment on marco's update i've looked at the update and my comments are are addressed well i like the new structure very well very much and um so that was the only thing i wanted to say i don't have any more input at the moment and um yeah that's it looks good thank you i'm wondering if xi young would like to add something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:10",
    "text": "not any question okay thank you okay so so i restate i don't have any pending actions uh left on uh on kyogre como score either it's up to the chairs about proceeding this yeah so um what i'm hearing is that i mean the document is ready to move to the isg yeah of course please keep in mind that original plan about thinking i i'm authoring both those documents in course so it's something you may want in case to discuss with uh carson jaime okay sure so um well carsten is um is here um i'm wondering uh what would you like what would be the easiest way i can help in that is that a question for carsten yeah the core co-chairs okay i mean a two-third of them yeah uh sorry i have been listening with about 0.6 years so what's the question so uh so so the question was um how can we ease the the proceeding of the the the group come over score"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "um because it needs some synchronization with the core working group um so i'm wondering um what would be the the way to move that forward well uh let me remember which of the documents this was many documents that could you please grant me a screen sharing again i had one slide yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah sure summarizing this i can shoot again there thanks is uh okay yeah the the bottom part carson yeah maybe you can say it i mean we discussed this this morning but uh i don't understand my notes so please go ahead well as i said the original plan was to request publication of kirukamal score in parallel with your conviction oscar group home in core and we expect some little work to do on the two documents anyway summarized here that i believe will not impact hyrule common score anyway so think is we want to stick to the most rigid plan possible of really sending out all three of them together or if the ace document can start moving on anyway i suppose thank you so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "i would probably so i would probably move um send it to the isg and um or do you want to have a review because i mean um i mean i guess the that was my next question um i was ready to expect the shepherd review together with uh shepherd up but it's of course up to you okay yeah yeah no no sure i mean the shepherd review um that's um we we have to do that to move that forward but um um i'm wondering um i mean we can write the shepherd review to move that and let then leave it to the 80 to handle the synchronization with with um with core all we can um i i i am more in favor or something that is a little bit more proactive and say yeah core has reviewed the document so i was basically thinking do you think we should have um two two weeks period open to core well i think the the best way to actually get some synchronization here um is uh to to use the fact that we don't have a sharepoint for that yet and uh we might actually find someone in core who was shipping okay this document so we have essentially both working groups uh in in the loop okay perfect i'm gonna ask for a shepherd okay good i'll do that thank you very much perfect so we're done with that document done because for you i i prefer you share the screen for the next one at least i can look at the meta interface okay okay okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "i'll try so i'm emitting material so now i have oh no i constantly open them so i don't remember how we so i should i go into the presentation view [Music] oh no i asked the screen share okay okay so you see my screen please go ahead karen okay um so i'm i'm going to talk about the new profile of the ace award framework uh which was recently published as rc 9200 together with the two profiles the details profile uh knight d202 and the oscar profile 9203 so you can you can show slide two here it's a slide you see at the bottom here on on this screen so basically we if you compare with the previous profiles starting with the oscar profile"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "and that is using the oauth framework to define the access to resources on the resource server with an access token associated to a symmetric key and then uses all score to protect the communication and authenticate um the client and server are using this symmetric key now this profile instead is associating the access rights to an asymmetric key or or rather authentication credentials authentic an authentication credential and uses ad hoc to to authenticate and to derive a shared secret which is used to set up our score so it's very much like um that the atls profile is already doing in case of public keys but it's using ad hoc and oscor instead of the dtls handshake and tls and the record layer protocol so the difference between this new draft and 9203 the oscar profile is that it supports a more strict trust model where you're using public keys instead of shared secret keys and the difference with the dtls profile is that it supports a lower overhead compared with using adhoc instead of dtls for the handshake next slide please another where you're comparing them is just looking at the protocol overview most parts will are the same in all three uh protocols to all three um profiles if you compare first to a details profile we have the token provisioning is identical uh of course we use dtl in this draft to use ethoc instead of dtls handshake and we use oscar instead of record layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "and comparing to 9203 the oscar profile and there's a different token provisioning compared to because the nonce and an id is is exchanged in the oscar profile there is no ad hoc exchange but the security context is derived in both and used in the same way so that's the similarity next slide please some other properties of this new profile which is then given the name co-op dash ad hoc dash auth score it supports the update of access rights just as the other two profiles and it introduces a new term called token series which would have been useful for when when we described the properties of the other profiles to highlight so the relationship between new access tokens and updated access tokens it also supports update of security context without updating access rights so either using adult key update which is defined in in ad hoc and or using the key update for oscor which is a core draft and it supports the use of authentication credentials in the same way as ad hoc so you can either include them in the access token or you could reference them which is useful because you could lower your overhead size of the access token um and it specifies a data structure called ethic information which provides information about the the particular application profile of ethoc that's used and like what method is being supported on his message for being used and so on and those that information may be included in the message exchange before running it i ie the part where we have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "the access token provisioning and it's also registering a lot of parameters and claims to support this there's a little yana registration next slide please and there are plenty of examples and quite detailed and there are examples of optimizations [Music] so for example instead of doing the post to authorization info you could include the access token in nethold message one directly in the external authorization data field and so that's one uh it's one one round trip less that's analogous to what is done in the dtls profile with the psk identity and also it's incorporating the uh ad hoc and oscor combi combined protocol um which is in the core draft so and and that could be combined with the access token provisioning so you actually have a two-round trip for provisioning the access tokens um authenticating and sending the first oscore access uh request oscar protected access request uh there is also an interesting alternate flow um where in the aes is provisioning the author access token instead of the client so there are some some examples of papers who have been studying this for for um more efficient provisioning of access rights so so that's something that we should so so what in principle the flow would be like this that the client requests an access token to the aes and the as then posts the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "access token to the rs and the note defies the client that the access token is provisioned and that's something that we could actually generalize either we specified only here or we could generalize it to apply to other drafts of the framework and yeah so that's next steps this is already very detailed we think this is more or less ready for for someone to review it is a minor update on information about support for kudos that we might want to add but otherwise we don't have any other proposed technical additions comments questions so i mean the this document is a candidate for um to be adopted so i mean um i'm wondering who's read the document who's interested in reviewing the document who's interested in contributing to that document well i i i suppose the the author are at least interested sure yeah i can probably volunteer the authors of the dtls profile who are on vacation at this point but i'm sure they will want to look at this okay right thanks okay um so i mean the on vacation is that a one week or i mean i i can start a call for adoption on the mailing list um is it more appropriate to do it now or should we wait a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "end of the week okay so i i i will check with my coach here and probably start a call for adoption one thing i'm a little bit worried is that um regarding the who is going to work on that document because i can see um marco john and guerin but um um i mean marco is a modern buzzy with uh the token and um and the admin draft so i would prefer to make sure that he's not too much involved into that document so that i mean the other document are not going to be slowed yeah yeah i'm definitely going to be involved in this uh [Music] in this draft and progress it so okay so that's that's a commitment from myself okay good oh there's a comment in the chat from christian uh read it can review later okay ready ready yes okay right so um i will check with my co-chair and issue the call for adoption um and then yeah that's um that's why we are so um now regarding the milestone um i'd like to understand um so i i mean um so for core i mean um the key group come what remains to be done is ask for a shepherd so um i'm considering that um people in core are so um involved that the chairs will have to to select um among the the candidates one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "shepherd brighter so that seems to be done for now um i'm wondering about the pub sub can we see that uh to be sent to the ihe by the end of the year um it will depend on how we resolve the to douche um i'll let you let me um do a another version and then i'll let the group know how my discussion with my co-author francesca has gone and then i'll be speaking more surely okay perfect yeah i think that's a good start if we have a new version and we can have that discussion on the mailing list um [Music] i don't want to promise at the end of the year it will be ready and still i'm expecting to clarify a few issues so i just don't know oh yeah sure yeah let's let's aim it as a soft target um okay that's why it might be okay perfect um and now we and and we have the token in admin so what would be a reasonable target from uh for those documents marco gm admin is more advanced i think after one two iterations more it should be ready for working your plus call that's what i'm hoping for at least uh revloc token notification requires some more work of course it's not um as that mature but it's progressing well i think so three iterations it means um tomorrow after tomorrow and the end of the week um after the london meeting uh okay somewhere in between the london and was that yokohama meeting okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "let's say beginning of night next year yeah it's something really reasonable we're talking about notification i expect will require some some more some more work but as i said it's proceeding well i think and it started later so yeah yeah no no i mean no i mean it's just for me to to have an um a timeline being said right okay so perfect um unless anyone has something to add um we can adjourn the meeting i think there was a request from michael so this is um sorry there was a request from michael richardson in the mailing list to uh on one of the ace drafts i don't think we have time to discuss it now but there was a question maybe we should just continue the thread on on the status of that draft so what was the so that's a question on the mailing list yeah you could look at the question from michael recently one week ago okay i thought he would be here to talk about it but i thought i saw him in the beginning but he's not um oh he's not here okay okay right um yeah so let's go back to the to the mailing list with that okay right um then i wish you um happy evening epi morning depending on where you are daniel i i have a final question will we meet at itf 115 um i think it's unlikely um because none of the chairs um i mean current current plans are that none of the chairs will actually meet in london"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "okay so um it's unlikely that we meet and we probably work with interim meetings understood thank you okay any other questions i'm hearing none so maybe i wish you a good day for for real this time thank you bye-bye thanks bob thanks bye thank you"
  }
]
