[
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:41",
    "text": "okay I think we\u0027re ready to get started so welcome to the NTP working group this is the note well that you have seen on many occasions and you\u0027ve seen it several times this week so you\u0027re good to go I think they just adjusted my volume my female I feel louder all of a sudden our agenda for the day this is the agenda and administrative section of the agenda we have a bunch of really short stuff to discuss we\u0027re going to be marching through a whole bunch of our work items and discussing the status and what the next steps for each of them are do I have somebody who\u0027s willing to watch jabber for me rich well thank you I know that ditcher is going to be working on minutes is there somebody else that\u0027s willing to take notes and help him with minutes oh you strategically did not bring a laptop just for that anybody anybody it always fascinates me how everybody looks strategically it looks down when it comes time to do minutes experience yes exactly all right so the rest of the agenda is tick-tock status and ntp status the guidelines for defining Paquette time stamps in general the way I try to organize these meetings is our working group drafts our adopted working group drafts first individual contributions second and then any other business third there\u0027s a little bit of variation in this today because of various scheduling considerations that we have people that will be joining the meeting late people that will be leaving early so that\u0027s the reason for this so guidelines and then we have basically three security items on the agenda the NTS draft that we currently have a little bit of discussion on NTS implementations and interoperability and that is presentation on a secure selection filtering mechanism then we\u0027re going to talk about the BCP there\u0027s a quick item on leap second list maintenance I\u0027ll describe what that isn\u0027t a little bit when I get to that and then the rest of our documents interleaved modes implementing time ref IDs the correction field short extension fields the yang data model additional "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:43",
    "text": "extension field proposals any other business and wrap up in the any other business as Harlan on Harlan is on okay I didn\u0027t notice yesterday but I see I saw today that there is an additional draft on the ref ID for leap smear so we\u0027ll just talk about that briefly in the any other business section so is there any agenda bashing nope alrighty then so on the tick-tock working group status we have two documents that we are progressing the first one being the yang data model for 1588 and that has gone out for a second IETF last call let\u0027s rush yeah so like what I\u0027ve done is like put in like kind of disclaimer it says the standard itself is not openly available so there was like an issue in the a is she that some people thought like okay maybe because the standards not openly available it didn\u0027t get good enough review so Karen made an arrangement to get a copy of the document if somebody asked for it so we don\u0027t a second ITF last call that the node and there it says like hey if you want the 1580 document will get a copy for you until now nobody\u0027s requested one so once that second last call finishes like I\u0027ll just push it back to the ESG and try to get the discusses cleared based on this criteria so okay so we had a discussion regarding this like at the sunday meeting of the ESG it\u0027s not related to this traffic generally when getting a document requires paying for it like so should we do standards track documents in IETF like that okay and we haven\u0027t concluded on it but that\u0027s probably not gonna block this document anyway okay so but that if something happens that\u0027s gonna be IDF wide it\u0027s not gonna be just for tik-tok right so the consideration here is the second document that the tic-tock working group is working on is the 1588 enterprise profile and that\u0027s going to have the same issue right so that needs to be submitted to you real soon now if you do it soon it\u0027s gonna be grandfathered yeah okay that\u0027s motivation to do it really soon yeah so that I don\u0027t think that\u0027s gonna happen in a hurry because it\u0027s not something we can do trivially because there\u0027s other class of documents that are not freely available either so like freely meaning not it\u0027s not just about money it\u0027s also yeah so the one of the things is like you know there was like a document I heard which costs forty thousand dollars to buy and that was like a nominated reference for a document so V not at least in this class so is it gonna be like some dollar value or is it like more I would think an idea "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:44",
    "text": "that people are posting that\u0027s something that\u0027s not clear to me so once that\u0027s clear I\u0027ll probably write something up as an IAC statement and to the community and then go from there but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s gonna happen if you send it to me in the next month or so okay I mean I do think from a philosophical standpoint having access to the documents is a good thing but then I also think from a good of the industry good of the internet perspective these other standards exist and we need to deal with them so all right so thank you for that did you have anything else you wanted us since you want to go to the mic and talk about this if you continue to do NTP I just want to stay here but like that\u0027s the only thing I had about the actually I was speaking to the yang one of the yang editors was looking at me like he was ready to say something so just in summary we have a young young a review of this document and that has no word Anika is founded yeah what sentence need to make it clear so we have a consumers how to evaluate the next valuation so that\u0027s okay so so year-long so the if the thing is like it\u0027s just a sentence as an editorial clarification just send it to me don\u0027t even publish in your draft I\u0027ll just put it as an ala see at Northern Pass it but if it\u0027s something substantive then run it through the working group but if it\u0027s just like some clarification text just send it to me you don\u0027t need to publish new draft yeah okay okay so that was the - tik-tok documents the so the on the IETF on the NTP so we\u0027ve that\u0027s it for tick-tock the intention right now is when we complete these two documents we will close that working group and move all of the time related working that we\u0027re doing to NTP to the NTP working group so on the NTP working group status documents that we weren\u0027t going to talk about today the first one is the Mac document that has gone to the isg it\u0027s out for it\u0027s out for working group last call or is it completed has it finished the IETF last call all right Oh so what I\u0027ve done is I\u0027ve extended the last call so because the ITF we came in between so I just extended it to make sure that people still had a chance to comment on it because people usually say like how don\u0027t run it through the ITF week but I wanted to get it on the Nextel a chat which is 25th of November so I didn\u0027t want to leave it until the idea finishes just at the last call so it will finish I think the Monday after the IDF okay okay so people can still get the comment on it like so the period two week period finishes but there\u0027s I added a week for the IDF in between so it\u0027s on a tell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:45",
    "text": "each ad on the train through the first till it\u0027s out of the idea okay excellent and I already run it through the sec a d before like kind of explain the white choice of algorithm was the question they had and I already ran it through them so shouldn\u0027t be a major issue but so it should move forward right I think the only question that might come up is the backward compatibility like you know how do we figure that out right that that\u0027s probably something that might come up yeah anshel said its address with agility yeah we probably need to use the mic for all conversations because of all that we have a long list of remote people so any supports algorithm agility so that was addressed I guess in the document so I think I don\u0027t think that should be a problem and the the second document that\u0027s not on the agenda is the control messages which needs to go to the ISG as soon as the shepherd writes up the shepherd right up this also the other document the BCP document I put that separately on the agenda deed because we have a bunch of work on that and Dennis is going to talk to it and he\u0027s he\u0027s online so okay so the one thing I kind of wanted to focus on the website is like should it be a BCP or not right that\u0027s kind of something that came up during the last call right so what should be the SATA so in addition to anything else you wanna discuss right I just want you to think about that too okay actually dentists and ditcher and I had some fairly extensive conversations about that and I asked for some review from Brian Haberman to look at it and give me his opinion on whether he thought it should be informational or BCP and his assessment was that it should be a BCP so we and dennis is going to talk about this more but we intend to do a scrub once we finish addressing all of the ietf last call comments we tend to do a scrub of the language to make it read a little bit more like a BCP I think the the comment from somebody was to get rid of the wishy-washy language that\u0027s fine I think there was like something in the metadata that kind of made me think it was an informational I think it was either the Shepherd shepherd the shepherd right up might have failed on that so that and that was my fault I indicated in the Shepherd right up it was informational because I wasn\u0027t paying attention in my head at BCP is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:45",
    "text": "informational but it\u0027s actually not technically informational it\u0027s it\u0027s so what is it the all-caps versus a little so anyway so we\u0027ll talk about that more when we get to that point in the agenda so next on the item next on the edge is this guidelines for defining packet time stamps okay thanks my name is tal I\u0027m from Huawei this draft is joint work with your hem Fubini and al morten the goal of this draft there are two goals actually and it\u0027s intended for people who design network protocols that require the use of packet timestamps and the goals are first of all to define a set of recommended time stamp formats that you will typically be able to choose from and the second goal if you were if you don\u0027t think any of the recommended time stamp formats fits what you need this draft also defines guidelines that specify how a new time stamp should be defined these are the two goals of the draft the status of the current draft we haven\u0027t made any changes since the last IDF meeting the draft is currently in working group last call we have received some comments while ago from Miroslav from Varna and we intend to address these comments together with the rest of the comments in working group last call so at this point the next step is the complete working group last call any last comments will be appreciated and we\u0027ll address these and we\u0027ll be as responsive as possible from our perspective try to do this as quickly as possible hopefully we can send the drafts to the ICG pretty soon any questions or comments will be welcome [Music] okay thank you and for those of you paying attention that the actually the working group last call notice went out about an hour ago so it is technically in working group last call I did did extend it through the end of November because both this is IETF week and the Thanksgiving holiday coming up so and I expect coming out of this meeting we\u0027re going to do a couple more working group last calls and run them in parallel and we\u0027ll run them all until the end of November so that we can keep track of what\u0027s ending when all right so next we\u0027re going to talk about NTS so my name is Tito Siva I was since "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:55",
    "text": "update of say it is Taft it\u0027s quite short these are more or less sensor changes from the last ITF meeting that we have we written up straight and be corrected solidified so that\u0027s more or less editorial stuff so craft is from the point of the author\u0027s Mia we all agreed as artists now ready to be submitted to but you hopeless gone that\u0027s it any any question or comment so just to be a tad bit clearer a tad bit more clear we did it we we had a draft we did the hackathon event in March based on that we fed all the feedback into the document and then in July we had another set of excellent contributions and at this point all of the authors agreed with the documents ready to go to working group last call right is there any to this going to work from a bless call Dania Frankie I\u0027m Jabbar wanted to know if you talk about 12 to 13 because not everyone goes to the interims 12 to 13 that was the introduction of the contribution from the Swedish guys or Marcos so if you look if you look at the the draft IETF dense RA NTS then basically it was incorporating the changes they suggested there into the core NTS specification because of the way the document was done it\u0027s a little bit hard to parse it because you can\u0027t really do a diff I mean you can do a diff between the two versions of the NTS document but you can\u0027t do a diff between the didn\u0027t sorry in it is that Daniel does that answer sufficiently what you wanted to indicate about the difference between those two drafts sufficient summary excellent so I know this doesn\u0027t get into a lot of detail you came to find out the status now we\u0027re telling you is we\u0027re gonna send the document to work in your last call but this document has been progressing for quite a while we do have some preliminary implementations of it if there\u0027s no objection we\u0027re going to send this to him your last call so the next item on the agenda is to talk a little bit about implementation status and plans for interrupt testing as I indicated we have done we have done hackathon projects in both London and and Montreal we didn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:55",
    "text": "do one here because a number of our key implementers we\u0027re not coming here so but I know that Richard I believe you said you were going to talk a little bit about the status of your implementation and you need to get in the queue so we can let you talk are you there Richard I actually don\u0027t see our cue either how do we see the tree there we go okay Richard you ready yeah never going to cube before so I wasn\u0027t sure what button to push the short version the last week we were able demonstrate partial or operability with our patient and there are some bugs which we are going to correct in order to allow interoperability testing with martens version but we are expecting to release that version for testing purposes in the very near future the one caution I have that this is not in any way can ready version reference implementation for these drafts in particular we were writing to draft 12 and have not implement any of the key server Richard can I ask you to turn off your video just to see if that\u0027s going to improve the audio just a tiny bit it might I don\u0027t know your audio is breaking up on this end yeah I\u0027m not sure how it comes off okay okay there um so in any case we\u0027re hoping within the next two weeks to demonstrate proper ability with martin Langer\u0027s code and as I was saying I\u0027m not a production ready to release in particular we were writing and we chose not to attempt to implement the idea of a key exchange server separate from the regular NTP servers and that\u0027s something that we\u0027re going to have to talk about an MTF how we want to hear that okay I think we all understand understand it\u0027s not a production ready implementation but do you think you\u0027ll be ready to do some form of testing in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:55",
    "text": "the March time frame is what I\u0027m hearing is that a BIA yes that that\u0027s a yes okay excellent any questions for folks for the for Richard well does anybody else want to speak briefly about it any implementation work they might do I am planning to do an implementation for interoperability testing next in the next ITF specifically in GU language so if someone is interested in contributing please let me know also I think Karen we\u0027re going to announce some mailing list that probably will help all of us um coordinate like um what\u0027s going on on the implementations oh right we were going to set up a mailing list just for different different people working on implementations to coordinate so they wouldn\u0027t be doing it on the mailing list on the on the working group mailing list but on a separate mailing list so look for that in the next day or two and I will announce it on the ntp mailing list and anybody who anybody who\u0027s interested in getting some of these initial implementations out that\u0027d be great at this point what I\u0027m hoping is that if the working group last call goes as smoothly as I hope it will and we get the changes incorporated into it that we will be perhaps this the end of this year early next year for publication all right anything else yes not long ago at implementation we tested in London together with Martin miss Daniels in imprint implementation he supervised an additional project at his university that was a student object who also implemented and and yes independently so and he also reports that they have interoperability you need to go back to Mike so daniel has asked in the chat if if this is going to be an intent EP and NTS implementation or just NTS I was thinking of just NTS okay okay anything else on this so anybody that\u0027s interested in implementation or testing "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:57",
    "text": "or looking at interrupts we will be organizing another effort in conjunction with the hackathon and at the next IETF so stay tuned for that so next up is Neda and she\u0027s going to talk about her draft and she\u0027s a remote presenter I thought I saw her online earlier yeah here oh there you are Oh actually no that\u0027s right I\u0027m supposed to there we go hello hello can you hear me yes great okay great thank you so hi I\u0027m the top and today I\u0027m going to present and the object that we made in the second draft of the Horace mechanism for NTP it\u0027s a John walk with the need to live is rocky and Amy hush beer and next slide please so a short reminder is that we consider the following treat model where we swing zoom that the attacker have fully put a control of a large function of MTP server in the pool sake water and we also assume that he can and most decided the content of the NTP and at the timing when they respond are going to arrive to the client and of course we assume that these militias and try to M shift declines Suzy and no no just a moment I came back yeah Indian a situation we can see that the clan gets both the good sample and the bit sample but he can choose to you to use a shift time samples next slide so chorus architecture is built on several ingredients on the one hand we rely on many NTP server we generate large server pool hundreds of servers be climbed in order to raise and the threshold needed by the attacker and on the other side we cry only fused them but they\u0027re randomly chosen and in order to avoid overloading the NTP and service and finally we use smart filtering in order to remove outliers and make it hard today man-in-the-middle to contaminate the choosen samples next slide please so in our new draft we address the trade-off between precision and security Kronus use a greater variety of servers that are trending over time it also avoids and NTP filters and this allow us to achieve provable security guarantees however it can also affect the precision "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:59",
    "text": "and the currency and this in fact is bounded by Kronos Omega parameter which is in default 25 millisecond and this parameter expressed the time diversity between a good samples and their distance and from the UTC since it\u0027s not accommodated time their version of five millisecond it\u0027s insignificant for many application for the other application were precision and a currency are critical we suggest the hybrid approach and were by default ntp updates the clock but one would faith a threat or there is an evidence of a check then we can use Connors time and next slide please so far we got mainly cheese suggestion of how to combine Connors and in the corn ntp the first one was to run hollows externally and gather data statistical data over a malicious server in order not to use them or avoid using them in the NTP and the second suggestion was to use Connors as a new file filter inside the NTP and we thank dieter and Greg for the useful discussions and next slide I think this is it so thank you and I can take questions now this is their link for their full draft yeah questions from anybody in the room [Music] and anybody online I don\u0027t see any any thoughts on what the next steps for this at this point this is an individual submission yeah that\u0027s correct what we plan is to you to test this approaches as well as the differences in their currency and their precision in the client site from horse and acorn tend to be and and I hope we will get you at least you in there next time ITF meeting so so you plan to there has been some discussion of this on the list you plan to revise it again based on that discussion and submitted it it\u0027s noted again in anticipation of the Prague meeting yeah I hope so all right thank you very much thank you I encourage people to take a quick look and read this please all right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:01",
    "text": "so if there\u0027s no questions on that the next thing on the agenda is the BCP so the BCP has gone out for IETF last call the mailing list will have seen a lot of the traffic on that Dennis do you want to talk about what\u0027s been done to address all of that I think you\u0027re gonna have to oh there we go go ahead hello okay hear me yes so so I\u0027m sure you\u0027ve all seen a lot of the traffic on the mailing list that\u0027s discussing the last call for the BCP there were several very well-thought-out comments and I think at this point we\u0027ve integrated most of the Commons that we most of the specific comments that we\u0027ve seen into a new version of the draft which will be posted I think submissions are open again so I can I can probably post it sometime the next few days and that will be a version 8 which will address the concerns that we saw through the last call I think that would be version 8 I mean check yes but then as Karen alluded to there have been a number of general comments about the the language in the document and about the tone and and those are things that we intend to address in a pass afterwards taking a look at the document as a whole and seeing where we can where we can strengthen the reservation there the recommendations so we want to be able to strengthen the recommendations in certain places but still keep the document as a general best practice guide and there\u0027s a bit of a balance there but we\u0027re gonna go and and take another stab at that and so at least in my mind my view would be to submit the - 8 soon and then do a general tightening up in the language and submit a - 9 and then at that point we would move forward I think at this point that\u0027s all I have do you have anything - else to add Karen or dieter I did I did have one question you have you\u0027ve replied back to all of the comments all of the individual comments we received right I think there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "were some comments from the general reviewers that I still need to just get back to and acknowledge but they were more there are more of the general type but yes I will be I\u0027m replying to those today okay Suresh Krishna so then it\u0027s like did you respond to Jo touch and and Nick I I thought I thought I sent those out passing by but just check if you did that\u0027s fine like I\u0027ll go check again but I didn\u0027t see the response to those other ones I saw the response to Tom page but that\u0027s all that\u0027s all I saw right I can I can just make sure that I yes I see that yeah I\u0027ll go through and make sure that that they\u0027ll got sent out yeah no worries okay thanks yep okay so Oh [Music] submissions are open Dennis so you can submit a submit the revised the revision do we have a timeframe for the revision I mean so I mean we\u0027ve got the revision that\u0027s going to go right away and then there\u0027s the next one and then the next one is one will go back to the iesg and say okay we think we\u0027re done with all these last call comments do we have a time frame for that next one I\u0027m hoping to have that in the next week or two it really depends on on my schedule and and when I can when I can make time for it you know I\u0027ve been very busy the last few weeks and that\u0027s part of the reason why it\u0027s taken as long as it has and so I apologize for that but I do want to push to get this done certainly certainly before the end of the month but I\u0027m hoping well before then okay um oh she\u0027s heading back to the mic so then II just to get an understanding of your schedule right so let\u0027s say like we get this wrapped up soon if I throw it on the December 6th or something on I tell each at would you be able to be responsive around that time yes I hoped me okay so when you say responsive by that time you mean we need to have finished this update and the next update prior to December see if it\u0027s true don\u0027t I use eval like the other people are going to throw in positions and kind of like try to see if you can do it before the holidays that\u0027s kind of what I was thinking okay otherwise it gets kind of loses the momentum after the holidays and it\u0027s hard to get back right so the I guess my my points are done in order for it to be effective on I tell a chat on the six that really needs to be wrapped up like a week before weeks yeah okay yep yeah I think we can we can accomplish that okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:02",
    "text": "that would be that would be fabulous so then the next item on the agenda is a really short one what brought this item up initially was actually a trouble ticket that went into the ietf website it turns out that this the reason I put it next to the BCP and the agenda is that the the BCP also refers to it there is a file on the IHF I\u0027m looking at my notes but there is a there\u0027s a file on the IHF website which is the is a file for leap seconds and that file is currently maintained by Julie Levine there\u0027s a question of whether implementations still use that or not and also we need to document the process for maintaining that going forward so it\u0027s not a big deal it\u0027s just something that in the process of the website being IETF website being redesigned was sort of identified as something that is not what was up on the old legacy website moved to the new website and it was sort of an orphan on the website so like some perspectives on whether this is still being used or not in the implementations and if so we need to document how that gets maintained in a way that\u0027s a little bit more obvious than it currently is so thoughts from implementations hi Karen can you still hear me I can still hear you so maybe maybe I\u0027m just little I\u0027m confused here but I thought that the the leap second file was maintained well I know it\u0027s distributed as part of the time zone database and so I was under the impression that the maintenance of the the leap second file would be the same mechanisms for the time zone database I\u0027m saying is that not the case well so it turns out the time zone databases was transitioned Diana and there\u0027s an RFC that talks about how that\u0027s maintained but the leap second file is not part of that I\u0027m going to hit the button and let Harlan talk go ahead Harlan or perhaps Harlan Harlan "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:05",
    "text": "we can\u0027t hear you if you\u0027re speaking are you muted I still can\u0027t hear you [Music] Harlen you\u0027re out of the queue now so I\u0027m assuming you dropped off the I\u0027m not sure what happened but oh now he\u0027s coming back to the queue again go ahead and we still can\u0027t hear you Harlan the Medeco guys say that they can\u0027t hear you in the meeting from their side either so I see Martin Bern icky has added something into the chat no yeah Harlan is yelling at us so Martin says that in fact the leap second file is retrieved from a time zone database file and it\u0027s included for completeness I think that the key is there\u0027s this one file on the IETF website that does not appear to be maintained as part of that and I think what I\u0027d really like is a couple of volunteers to help me clarify if there\u0027s something that needs to be updated somewhere if this particular file is still being used and how to do that so if Martin if you understand so I think that what the if I were an IETF website maintainer person I think what I would really like to do is get rid of this file if it\u0027s not actually being used that would be the key thing so perhaps I\u0027m wording the question a little bit too wishy-washy can we get rid of this file and do we need it hi Karen hi Jason Jared Mancha Akamai I I would suggest that we remove it especially if there\u0027s no document referencing the data file and if it breaks something you know then we can quickly submit a document stating warrior and why that file lives there as a reference for whatever implementations may use it right in jabber harlan says if the ITF doesn\u0027t want to maintain it and TF will do so I think the point here is that if it is needed for an IETF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:09",
    "text": "protocol then the IETF is happy to maintain it we just have to document where it is maintained and how and what we have right now is is not that so if it\u0027s neat and what I\u0027m hearing from Martin is that go ahead yeah yeah I said I think that aligns with what I was saying which is that if if there is a standard that uses this not just an implementation but if there\u0027s a standard that requires the use of this file that it should be documented where that file is the format of the file etc and it should be and it sounds like it would be a relatively simple document and if n TF needs it as part of their implementation it would be best that it live you know at their website under their control as with any other ntp vendor implementation all right go ahead you\u0027re gonna yeah Harlan Harlan says NTP uses the file okay so I think that the bottom line here is is that we need to document this and so Harlan and Martin because you both have generously commented online can I ask you to work with me offline to properly document this in some way if you put yeses in the chat I\u0027ll know that you\u0027ve agreed if you know I\u0027ll say if we don\u0027t have a working group document or an IETF document that references the file I believe it should be removed right and I think the minutes will will we can write I think what we\u0027ll do is we\u0027ll take this offline as a project and Martin and Harlan and I will get back to you all and what the right answer is but I think if if it\u0027s not if it\u0027s not referenced by specification if it\u0027s not used in a protocol somewhere we should probably get rid of it the other possibility is is to do something with I Anna like we did with the time zone database and I don\u0027t know if that makes sense or not but anyway so I just wanted to be sure that that was right so we\u0027ll add an ADD dentist to the list of people that are willing to help on that as well [Music] right so Thomas Peterson has put a link in the Java chat that first one is the link that I was looking for I thought I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:11",
    "text": "had put it on the minute in the agenda slide but I didn\u0027t I really don\u0027t think this is a very controversial issue I think it\u0027s really simple I think it\u0027s just a bit of housekeeping that needs to be done and that housekeeping became more obvious when they did the website transition so it\u0027s just something it needs to be cleaned up so alrighty so next on the agenda is NTP interleave modes I put this on the agenda I don\u0027t know Miroslav if you wanted to say anything else I know we discussed this at the virtual interim two or three weeks ago I don\u0027t see Miroslav in the queue oh there he goes excellent hi can you hear me you\u0027re a bit you\u0027re breaking up a just occurred there are no changes in the document but there was an issue raised on one of the previous meetings that not breaks the client-server interleave mode I don\u0027t think that is an issue and I have posted links on the list to a minimal implementation that I think demonstrates that this is not really an issue and I think it also shows that an implementation of this protocol is quite simple so hopefully people won\u0027t be afraid of it okay so my question for you then was if you as the author believe this was ready for working group class coders okay is there anybody opposed to this document going forward working group last call all right excellent this is one I had plan to issue after this meeting as well thank you Mary slow okay next is on trial on on implementing time this is where we\u0027re going to test fate comment from Harlan it requires the server to maintain State for the client if I understand this correctly so maybe Miroslav did you want to respond to that wall and Charles getting set up there is a possibility he "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:22",
    "text": "may slant a similar approach like in PTP with the follow-up message but for NTP that would be a problem because it would amplify the traffic so we need to make a compromise here and that is that we need to keep some small state for each client it\u0027s about 16 bytes depending on the implementation and that state can be lost and nothing bad will happen because the protocol can fall back to the basic mode so yeah some state it\u0027s required but it\u0027s very small and it\u0027s not critical okay all right angel hello today I\u0027m going to talk about talk something on implementing time this is the second draft that we submitted and we have made changes based on the comments on the previous draft and this work is jointly done with Christophe from ptb Martin Huffman from open net labs and vilem from NL net labs so the motivation behind the work so we cannot understate the importance of time and today\u0027s digital systems so functionality and security of all the applications hinges on some notion of time and for the implementers who implement these applications that rely on time they have to choose from multiple clocks that are available on digital systems and the problem is that these applications choose one of these clocks but are oblivious to the implications of choosing one or the other clock for implementation so the main purpose behind the document is to provide some guidance to the implementers about the trade-offs of using one or the other crocks available on the systems so what should you expect from this document so first this document will in this document we explain different kinds of time different kinds of methods that are used by different applications to express time we then talked about different how different how digital systems keep time that is the different kinds of clocks that are available on today\u0027s digital systems and their properties then we discuss the trade-offs of using one or the other a one crop over the other for different "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:22",
    "text": "applications and we hope that this will provide some guidance to the implementers to make an informed choice while by implementing applications that use time the non scope of the document but you should not expect from this document but this document doesn\u0027t address is that in all the discussions in this document no discussion in this document is specific to architecture of any PC or any other device it\u0027s nor is it specific to any operating system ok this document doesn\u0027t deal with the question of how these did so will I will talk about different kinds of plots that are available on the digital system but this document doesn\u0027t deal with the question of how these clocks are available on different pcs or other devices like the API is that are available we don\u0027t talk about it in the in this document and we do not recommend one time over the other for all the applications like there is no set in stone final recommendation we just provide the different properties of these times and the trade security properties and other properties of this time and the trade offs of using one of over one of the crocks over the other but the fine the final decision of which talk to use we are very depending on the availability of the clock on the system and the security requirements of the specific application that is under implementation ok so now I\u0027m going to talk about in for the rest of the talk I will talk about how different applications Express time how different digital systems keep time trade-offs of using these two native versus world time which I\u0027ll define in a moment and then current implementation approaches towards implementing time and time in different applications and then this document contains some API is available for accessing different kinds of clocks on POSIX and Windows operating systems so expressing time how so we define two kinds of time in which most applications Express time so the first is absolute time absolute time as I expresses an absolute fine point in time or say for instance November 6 2018 a specific time and absolute time is typically used to indicate the validity of objects which have a limited lifetime that can be shared over the network "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:23",
    "text": "for instance the signature has a validity period it\u0027s pretty old it\u0027s expired probably so it has 2017 it this this timestamp is an absolute timestamp it refers to a particular point in time so this is an example of how applications use absolute time then we have some applications Express time in terms of relative time which is a measure of the time interval that has passed from a fixed reference point so for example time to live TTL values that determine the determine the length of time for which an object is valid or usable that uses relative time applications that use TTL use relative time for instance this is the TTL for this our our set which means that this record should be considered valid for seven five nine eight seconds and then it should be reached from the source so these are the absolute time and relative time at the two tech kinds of time that they are most applications express time now how different a how different of how digital systems keep time that is the different clocks that are available on digital systems the first one we call it native rock this is something that is very its systems own perception of time it\u0027s very subjective it is obtained by the systems by Counting the cycle let\u0027s say scouting the cycles of an oscillator or by using process CPU times or thread CPU timers it basically returns the difference in time between two points so what are the properties of this time it is monotonic it would always go in one direction it is it is immune to vulnerabilities from external time sources it\u0027s it is not affect it cannot be said this time cannot be set it cannot be set manually or from other external sources of time since it is not it cannot be set its quality depends on the stability of its the stability of the oscillator or CPU timer of the system and there is crop drift of course clock rate may vary or the clock rate of this time may vary from that of other systems since it is not adjusted for by any external sources then there is another notion of time that is kept by the digital systems that is we call it volt clock this time has the potential to be in sync with other "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:25",
    "text": "systems and it is obtained you either by manually setting the time on your system or some systems use hardware clock to update world clock to update their system time which is called world clock and this Hardware time itself is updated from an external time source so Hardware clock is generally accessed by the systems during reboot because the hardware clock is persistent between and then usually the system switch to external sources of time such as Network time protocols and other such timing protocol implementations to update world clock with other properties of this time so since it is it can be set manually or from external other external sources of time it compensates for the clock drift so this time can be in sync with other systems so this time has the potential to stay in sync with other systems however it is since it is it can be set manually it as vulnerable to miss configuration errors second hardware clock access is resource intensive and the quality of the hardware proper me note may not be very high in in many digital systems which could lead to a large clock drift drift if it is not compensated for the clock drift that is one reason why why it is why world clock uses external sources of time to adjust for the clock drift and since it is adjustable by the external sources of time it opens up the world cloth to the vulnerabilities that are present in these external sources of time so examples are there are there\u0027s really there\u0027s a lot of work that shows that these are timing protocols and its implementations are vulnerable to network attacks so these are the two kinds of on a very broad level two kinds of time that are available or two kinds of clocks that are maintained by digital systems now how do software implementations deal with relative time in application when applications use relative time how do software implementations deal with you\u0027ve seen that most common approach that the implementers take is to convert relative time to absolute timestamps to absolute time and then this absolute "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:27",
    "text": "time is compared with the current system time which is the world time and the problem is that this time as I said can be updated by external time sources so it is it\u0027s one you\u0027re able to on all the vulnerabilities that are present in these external time sources so so there are other possible implementation approaches that can be used however in case of absolute time there is no other option but to use the world clock but what we talk about and discuss in this document is that in case of where applications use relative time and where the implementers have to implement a relative time they should not use absolute time instead they may consider using the native clock that is available on the on the digital systems and we discussed the trade-off security trade-offs in our document and in the end we provide we talk we discuss a little bit about the API is that are available on the POSIX and Microsoft Windows systems for optic obtain native time so on POSIX system this function clock get time provide all kinds of different times that are all kinds of different clocks that are available on this operating system so one of the so this function takes as an argument clock identifier one of which may provide native time and on Microsoft Windows there is this function called get take count that would return native time need of yeah native time get account return every two-bit count sixty four-bit count of native time so the basic idea behind the document is to is to provide guidelines to the implementers to provide to provide knowledge to to provide knowledge about the trade-offs of using one of the other trade-offs of using absolute or native time or well native time or absolute time for different applications but the ultimate choice will be made by the implementers depending on the kinds of clocks available on different systems and the specific application under consideration that\u0027ll be all thank you any questions any questions for Rancho "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:31",
    "text": "this is one energetic group I must say I realize it\u0027s late in the day but okay so this is the second part what can you let go to the mic and say that I have a problem seeing where this would go I mean it\u0027s a it\u0027s not quite a survey document it\u0027s informational I mean we would do what was your plan if you had one or you two sort of you know yeah we were thinking of doing it as an informational draft not a standard stock of course because there is no set recommendation it\u0027s just informational for the implementers I believe yeah Cairo\u0027s Akamai I mean I think it this reminds me a lot of the considerations for randomness are that\u0027s what it reminds me of so it\u0027s not it\u0027s not providing it\u0027s providing sort of guidance to implementers for how to properly deal with these things based on the experience based on on the experience of people who\u0027ve implemented systems that need to use time and on just like careful analysis so I mean I it seems useful and it seems like there\u0027s precedent for documents like this being published so like no ad had like I thought the document was useful like for me and I think it should be published like if it\u0027s not published like keep it on a group week here something at least so just make sure that people can get to it and I don\u0027t so one of the reasons I thought it\u0027s better to publish is like I don\u0027t see this like changing very much so if I thought this would like be like something that could get out of date quickly I\u0027ll just say keep it in a wiki but I think there\u0027s value in getting this published as an informational draft so but taking my chair hat off completely and stowing it far over there I find the let\u0027s put it on a wiki argument to not be very compelling I yeah I just feel like we put things on wiki\u0027s and then they get lost and you know only only people with special sauce know how to find them again yeah again so one of the reasons people say putting some of your keys like things are dynamic so one of the things that vent actually from an RFC to Vicki right is the Tao of the idea for Dow or the idea of division how you wanna say it that went from an RFC to a wiki because like we realized that like by the time it gets published like things are already out of date right like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:32",
    "text": "that\u0027s so that at that point when something is very dynamic you put it in a wiki so I don\u0027t see like you know time absolute a module at a time like definition of that changing very frequently right so I think it makes sense to publish it yeah and I it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s been a while since I\u0027ve is implementing anything with time but I think some of the issues that that I\u0027m challahs talking about some of the same issues that that that we worked on when I was writing code that implemented time in various system various real-time systems so I personally think it\u0027s useful chair hat completely off so all right so I think then with that the is anybody opposed to us doing a call for adoption on this document okay I think we not sure what tiny little enthusiasm we had and now we\u0027re back to square one so thank you and Joe so the next thing on the agenda we don\u0027t have any slides for and it is the ref ID updates I don\u0027t know Harlan if you wanted to speak at all to this like while we\u0027re waiting to see if he\u0027s going to get in the queue this particular document started out as three different proposals for f4f IDs I asked them to combine all of those proposals into one and then what happened was is that two of those proposals are pretty solid and the third one was more controversial and so what we wanted to do then was to pull the pull them back apart I asked them again to pull them back apart so go ahead Harlan you\u0027re not speaking it hasn\u0027t actually worked yet you\u0027re right we haven\u0027t heard from him have we okay all right so so with that I will okay so oh that\u0027s me deco talking to him so Mike so the proposals haven\u0027t changed they\u0027re pretty much as they have been I asked on child to take a quick look at this for me and and make sure that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:34",
    "text": "the other the original - well I\u0027m drawing a complete blank one as I do and I and the other ones in ipv6 something I\u0027m drawing a complete blank this is embarrassing but but anyway there\u0027s two RF IDs they haven\u0027t really changed we\u0027ve pulled out all the leap smear stuff which was controversial and so at this point I think this document is also ready to go to working group last call it\u0027s been here for a long time and when we pull out the leap smear stuff it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty stable so is there any questions or comments on this going to working group last call now one of the things I\u0027m doing by putting you know three or four documents out for working group last call is we have a bunch of stuff to read and comment on we really need people to read and comment on it in a timely manner so you know putting submitting working group last call comments two months after it\u0027s completed working group last call is is not necessarily helpful okay so so with that if there\u0027s no opposition we will go ahead and send the ref ID updates out to working group last call excellent the next one is the NTP correction field Miroslav did you want to thinking about that one there was a new version submitted a while ago and the most important change was that can you can you speak up a little bit Marisol please there was a new version submitted and the main change was that it now uses the format of the PTP correction field to allow some existing hardware to support this NTP correction field so they don\u0027t have to support two different time scales and the PTP correction field is using nanoseconds and so this is this feels a bit foreign in the NTP protocol but I think it will make it easier for implementation yeah I think that\u0027s it okay so at this this particular document we were looking to do a call for adoption on if I recall clearly right Marissa wanted to hear from Tao I\u0027m not sure if he had a chance to look at the new version he had some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:37",
    "text": "useful comments before so I would like to hear from him before we put it forward okay can I ask you to follow up a towel and get back with us all right thank you [Music] and the next one is the NTP V for short extension feels this is also Miroslav okay this is you a new draft that was submitted about a month ago hold up just one okay now let\u0027s try again Miroslav this is a new draft that was submitted ago go ahead about allowing short extension fields it\u0027s basically the idea that I proposed several times on the mailing list and didn\u0027t see much opposition but I\u0027m not really sure how people what people think about us it\u0027s the main idea is that is compatible with RFC 7 822 and there is no ambiguity in parsing that\u0027s it these are the two main points and it allows shorter extension fields to be saved in a ntp packet with Meg and everything together and don\u0027t waste much space on padding because 7t a 22 requires padding to prevent ambiguity in parsing and this proposal gets around that by packing multiple extension fields together yeah I would like to hear what people think this is an alternative proposal to some other drives so I\u0027m not sure okay so I believe we what you are saying it was it\u0027s an alternative proposal to the one that yes that Harlan had earlier "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:37",
    "text": "correctly correct okay okay so Harlan\u0027s oh no you go ahead injera Harlan says he\u0027s not happy but he will discuss it on the mailing list not happy with with this Drive the document yeah right right I do what so we had a call for we had a call for adoption on the last extension field so I think we divided the extension field stuff into two categories one was clarifications or extensions on how the extension field mechanism itself is designed and works and then the separate thing is proposals for new types of extension fields so everything from this point anything related to that first category needs to be considered in the context of of changing updating or extending 7820 to so I guess we will take this to the mailing list and see I would encourage everybody to read it it is it is well-written it\u0027s clear and concise and I think it\u0027s a shouldn\u0027t be too hard of a read alright anybody else on this document so the next steps for this document is a it\u0027s further discussion on the mailing list Thank You Mara Slav alright I don\u0027t know if he made it here yet he was coming from another meeting the yang data model in the room so we will we will come back to that the next set the next agenda item is actually going to be a little bit tough to do if Harlan doesn\u0027t have audio there are currently four drafts for extension field proposals these extension field proposals are intended to be or the the guidance given as far as they need to be compliant with seventy eight twenty two they are extended information I do last EF and should suggest ref ID so has anybody read any of these at this point "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:23:39",
    "text": "I realized that most of our active participants or a number of our active participants are online this makes it a little bit tough to do so Harlan has has submitted these and we need to decide on a way forward for them they\u0027ve been around for a little while go ahead he says it\u0027s not sure what I can say about these the content is unchanged and any extension field proposal I\u0027ve made supports padding that makes it 72 to compile okay so I think the next step for these would be to do a call for adoption on them I would like to look to see if it and I can like to take a quick look at him to see if there\u0027s any way to combine that we\u0027ve got so many short documents going through that that it would be nice if some of these could be combined um short documents are great okay anyway so is there any any opposition to do in a call for adoption on these a dot on these documents I saw his comment already so I don\u0027t see the yang guy here I know that he had a conflict in another meeting and was presenting in that meeting so this and I\u0027m pretty sure I can cover what he needed to cover that we have an NTP yang module we asked them to do an early I do all the calls for adoption on the mailing list so I will do it on the mailing list so especially given the number of active yeah a lot of our people aren\u0027t here so I really wish Harlan\u0027s audio was working these there\u0027s a little bit more spirit in the meeting when we actually can hear people so anyway the yang data model for ng P we asked them to do a to get a yang doctors review and they have done that they\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:43",
    "text": "going to do it up they\u0027re planning an update based on the feedback that they\u0027ve gotten and once they get that feedback it will also it\u0027ll be ready for a working group last call we won\u0027t issue it with the set we\u0027re issuing right now we\u0027ll issue it once we have the update but the the review that got was the only real substantive issue at not substantive issue but the only real issue that they weren\u0027t exactly sure is the question about how much detail to put in the descriptions you know should the descriptions be really short or should they be longer and so so that would be a question is is whether or not to put any more detail in there so go ahead rich he\u0027s concerned he hasn\u0027t seen much detail in the yang specs shouldn\u0027t be look more like RFC 50 907 the SNMP proposal well possibly it should be that this is where I would really like people to start commenting on these things a bit earlier because we those documents been around for a while so you know it I guess I would wait I would ask implementers where where it should be but that would probably be an excellent comment to make now sooner rather than later all right so now we\u0027re at any other business that and I know that we had the leap smear submission I was going to ask Harlan to talk about it but since I\u0027m guessing his audio is still not working unless you want to try one more time Harlan I don\u0027t see him in the queue so I guess he doesn\u0027t want to try again [Music] so muñeco wants him to try a self-test first which which actually makes sense I will point out the Medeco actually provides a number of tests for folks to try in advance to make sure that their audio and video is working and and that\u0027s that\u0027s really helpful I know it\u0027s not a tool that a lot of people use every day but it and and I know that the me deck I\u0027ve actually driven me to echo guys crazy on a couple of calls where I\u0027ve had problems but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:29:47",
    "text": "go ahead he said I guess he left the room so he\u0027s gonna try to rejoin but the leave second proposal is a way to accomplish this in a visible way nobody has to implement it if they do not want to this is a leap smear not the leap second no he says leap second here but I think the problem is is that there there doesn\u0027t seem to be consensus on whether the leap smearing is a good thing to do or not and I think there\u0027s a there\u0027s a set of people who feel like we should not be allowing it and then there\u0027s a set of people that say people do it anyway so we should go ahead and do it all right go again let\u0027s try again Harlan nope our troubleshooting people in the room have asked if you tried turning it on and off again I will tell you one other time when I had problems I switched from Firefox to Chrome not that that Harlan says the mechanism is separate from the policy the mic is still not working yes okay so I think we\u0027re basically going to have to take this to the mailing list because this is basically what we\u0027ve got going on right now it\u0027s going from one chat to the other so anyway with that proposal please take a look at it we have a bunch of work to clean up a number of our open network items which we will hopefully finish shortly and with that I think we are done look for the mailing list if you\u0027re interested in planning the the implementers coordination list look for a hackathon effort doing interrupt testing and implementation of NTS in the March timeframe and we will attempt to do two interim two virtual interims one in the [Music] you know we\u0027ll figure out the winds but you know early to mid December late January or something like that like January early February I think the last one that we had was a little bit too close to this meeting but part of the reason for that was we we ran into scheduling difficulties so other than that please reply to the working group last call\u0027s oh yeah there we go rich says it very well see you on the mailing list in the interims and on the net thank you all very much I think we\u0027re getting some stuff done it\u0027s a good idea to clear out some of our overdue work items thank you everyone and have a lovely evening thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:47",
    "text": "you to everyone who joined remotely I know it\u0027s strange hours for a lot of you you "
  }
]