[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "Andrew Why? Sorry. pitch. Yeah. It gets It's for this one. Yeah. Some can this this guys and connection the bottom Oh, yeah. No. This is the overheating fabric of Yeah. Yes. Disask. Come"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:09",
    "text": "Good afternoon. You said the the agenda tools right here used to run it right here. Everything was right here. I don't know what the hell things are starting now. find what It's like they've just polished everything or logged in to to put it. Yeah. exactly, Okay. Let's see what happens. Got my display back. Hey. Everything's dead. start over. relatable So you say you don't see the It used to be right there. No. in the directory. banking materials here. Okay. So you do the full I'm the local. So let me enter this full and then that'll help. So stuff on Yeah. exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I'm a log in there. Yeah. So I have to get this Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "Yep. your screen. Yep. Awesome. Alright. We got screen. We have a notetaker someone taking minutes. Welcome to beer. As in the acronym and not the beverage, We can correct that after this meeting. That's an individual problem we will not address. Anyone, please just taking notes. Please don't make eye contact. You may get caught. Yeah. Hey, Jeffrey. You're looking forward to this? Yep. Yep. like, remote I believe in you. Thank you, Jeffrey. Someone else Anyone? need somebody. We Whoever looks suspiciously animated. Yeah. Oh, there he is. He was hiding back there. Could you do it? Thank you. We got a notetaker, humans on board. Fantastic. Slides running here. So let's step up, see the agenda. I'm gonna log in like that too, though. Northwell. Noelle? noted, noted, nods, Look at all that confirmation. Everyone's still awake. That's good to know. agenda. Knote really well. Yeah. Still still noting. and notes some more. We have a good second down. the best Next. agenda, I'm doing a full client meeting. Oh, that's good. one. Right? So don't open the mind."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "yet on the queue, we'll manage Good. Great success. And I'm in. Yeah. The minute. So the minute then please put them on the not too old because that they were they were based to review the list as well. and put it official minute stuff. Don't you all mind. I'll take care of it Yeah. So agenda. want to share the material? You Can I share from here? Yep. this this little the second item. cell Share preloaded slides? Well, how do I get them first? Where were they? No. No. Share preloaded Just click. Oh, nice. they have gone through this. Yeah. right. where's the agenda first? Status? Alright. and I'm sharing. Look at me share. Excuse my boat shares, basically. the tools change constantly. And I've been mostly dead all day. Thank you. So should long to be as old as me. Okay. We're still noting. We're past the note bits. And we're into meeting tips where this come from. Alright, Sandy. Resources, our agenda, but overall, it's this Friday and you're still looking with the IATF agenda, I can't help you. I should have been working on that earlier, but you made it here, so that's a sign. Alright. Today's agenda for the beer working group. Anything missing? Anyone need more or less time, stick your up first, so you should look up and see what it says. Is this alright? Is this what you're after? Greg's in. I see that Sandy's here. We got folks in the room. Alright. Just due to some status."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "gosh. We got drafts in ISGQ. We have some waiting for shepherds, don't we? waiting for write ups. We have a stack waiting for write ups. So if shippers assigned for these? Pretty sure we're almost full now. We may be 1 or 2. Look, live, live, push. I updated everything us for You did a lot of kick in this. Yeah. I he wouldn't have shepherd, so he'd ask step up. Otherwise, we have reps some Yeah. And I heard in PIN that the ISGQ is best considerably overloaded as this is backed up in every step of the process, they were saying. towards you. Yeah. Well, obviously, we get it off of our our desk, at least we know it's out there. So getting the shepherds and the write ups done. If you're one of those Pardon me? the queues are getting better. looking great. It's There you go. Alright. looks like they got a rubber stamp for actually getting the work done. it Yes. some MLD ready for last call. We have a shepherd assigned. waiting for the review, and will be represented today. Final catch up. And This is in your future. At the end of this meeting, we'll be drinking these beverages. tasty malt beverages. So Alright. No. Show my incompetence. How do I go back? out of this again. I -- What? -- quit. bad. No. No. back to back What you're trying to do? I wanna Sarah, was numbering, But that was that was the slides. I wanna go to the first No. deck, which is here, And it's Stig, So update on the strap that is already in Las call. Correct? We're just waiting for a write up. just as a warning, 6 authors. This is a sticky issue. Okay? Yeah. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "see when he mailed REST needs to be updated. Yeah. So So it hasn't been to last call yet. But, yeah, this document has been around for some time, and and they were, like, that you offer initially other documents. and then they they kinda gave up on it, and then there were the other offers ticking over. So that's why there's 6 So, no, we need to kind of get them exception hopefully for or explain why there are 6 offers. But yeah. Right. Yeah. We can make some peep some of them contributors. Sure. Yep. Yeah. So I'll keep this short. But, basically, the documents has been just flying around for a few years. It was waiting, though, for this extension 90 or I've seen 9279 in PIM that has been finished, published, So this is ready to go, I think. So so uses that extension to encode like the the the information about the the sender, like the b for ID and and view prefix and so on similar to what was done with the pin PIM overlay. previously. One one limitation with this solution just mentioned in the draft too is that if there's multiple hosts multiple routers on on the source LAN, we need some kind of DEF election Alright. I'm Miss Sol. small meeting, pretty informal. Right. I mean, didn't we talk about it whether this thing should go into this document or we'll be general election or something, so nothing happened. Because without this, I mean, the function is desktop is not really functional. Right? Right. And so okay. So one thing is you know, you could deploy it and make sure you only enable this on on one of your routers. Otherwise, you could possibly run PIM and say, okay. The PIMDF is the or PIMDR is the TF. By the way, ideally, we want that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:04",
    "text": "non PIM solution. Right? That's the purpose of this. There was a draft by ICE many years ago. Yes. Right? Did it go anywhere? So Right. Just this generic collection. So, yeah, he only did that first revision. So what I would want to do is hopefully, publish this with that limitation. and then start working on on the DFL or pick up his Okay. Well, I mean, you his draft will start working on the the collection draft. No. We can't. I mean, if we push this stuff to RFC, we need solution even if you say, well, for the moment, it's PM, something better maybe beyond. Right? we can just push it out and then let people, like, you know, jump off the building and say, oops. Right. So yeah. So is it okay to say, is it okay to say, one one possibility is to to run PIM and and you sip NDR and and then say that, you know, other solutions are being worked almost. Well, unless you have something better. Yep. or we just hang it until we have, you know, election because, you know, we can publish this stuff. Yeah. That's the other other option if you prefer to just leave this idle waiting No preference. Just pointing out. Yep. Yep. yeah, we need a DF election But, solution, and I'm happy to work on that at least. So who's referred to draft. but around for a long time. You're welcome. I'm just kind of curious with the sense room was in terms of shipping it as is or waiting for Right. Right. So let's see how do I frame this. 4 try it. again. to raise hands. Oh, that was who read it. Right? So let's end this This is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "be way for the general election. drag itself or ship it as is. yes, would be you're waiting. It's a razor. And No. It would be ship it now. Wow. Anyone in the tool? really got my head. There we go. So the room is where we have one person, say, ship it now, 6a, Yeah. Yeah. I I just, like I mean, has been waiting around a long time. I get that. But I don't understand the urgency of going forward with something that we don't really stand on. I mean, the idea is let's get it right. and we we addressed this problem a long time ago when that generic draft generic election was kind of introduced. and somehow it all got dropped. Are you okay with that? Yeah. When are you gonna work with ICE to resurrect that draft? ticket over. I'll I'll work with him. Okay. Home. If he's interested you see back end engaged again? Is he back engaged in the IETF again? A little bit. It was your previous site. Yes. Yeah. He was in London. That's right. He was. Okay. Excellent. Good. Good. Love to have him back. Yeah. Alright. Okay. Yep. So it looks like we're waiting. for Yeah. That draft. Yeah. Alright. Sure. Sure. end the session. There it is. Thanks. Alright. And Back to meeting materials. Okay. This How do I kill this? I have to go back to that. and to that. Okay. OEM. Greg knows his cue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "Okay? So let to update you on the progress of OEM related documents. Next slide, please. Greg, So conveniently left out the offers list. What's their resolution? down to 5, Uh-uh. I have it. Monday. and good news. Where to to number 4, Thank you very much. So yes. I think everybody who responded to the inquiry So so others who did not will be moved to contributors list. Great. Makes my life simple. Thanks. Yes. And thank you for guidance. And encouragement to offers to act on it. Next slide. Give me to go one back. Yes. Okay. So here's the list of what we have OEM requirements, ping, NTU discovery, BFD, and performance measurement using hybrid methods. alternate working. These are working group documents. next slide. Okay. So we received earlier use from routing director at uritus directorate in the area. Ops area, as I understand, was expected, but never arrived. So Hopefully, we will get some. As very good discussions, there are some updates clarifications particular to the figure and the text. as We discussed with Tony. Thanks for guidance chair of guidance. We now under the thresholds, So we're at 4 offers on the front page. So this obstacle is removed now. and we believe that we are ready to move forward on a thin draft. Any patience?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Okay. Next. Now we can go because Yeah. I don't wanna go you know, if editorial removed reply to TOV, clear the type in in consideration sections. So, again, all the benefits of having some other to look at it With a fresh look, and share the constructive comments. on peerbofd, Just today, one sec. So the beer ping is one of the most important OEM documents. Right? So the stuff is in the last call. That's the last chance. I think the stuff has been wrung out RQL, but this will be one of the critical pieces to deploy to technology So I can only encourage people to have another close look because, no, your complaints afterwards won't matter. Yeah. And actually, I believe that there are implementations or there could be implementations. So if you have information, please share I'll be glad to put it in implementation status even though this will be removed from the final published version, it will be helpful for, I believe, ISG and just to keep it for the historical purposes. Yeah. Okay. Let Okay. Yeah. Hooman, Nukia. Yeah. We do have an implementation But, honestly, I didn't read this inside out. Nothing has changed from TLV perspective or anything ping, specifically? No. No. Not not not in the On the request reply itself. So the the Core. Core message is the same. Okay. Yeah. From implementation point of view that's been sitting in our softer for quite a time while in seems to be working. it will be very helpful if you can help if if you if you prefer, I can send you as a questionnaire to the listener."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "So you just fill in what you know And it will be helpful I believe for the historical reasons Yeah. Even though this information never gets published. Sure. Sure. Sure. Okay. Thank you. you so much. Okay. Next slide, please. think it's an on b r yeah. B r b of d. I Okay. So the two use cases applicability of 2 ROCs discussed in this graph because this is a multi scenario, 8562 provides uses BFD demand mode so that tails are aware of the path and 8563 provides what's called active tails so that they can be queried using Bfd sequence or there is unsolicited notification that when their tail detects the failure, it originated notification to the head so the head could be aware of it. just today, came out Only a routing director at review, and it's positive. So no major minor issues being detected and So very nice and I appreciated the work that was put in the review. Okay. Next slide. hybrid performance we had a early review from Alvaro when he was AD. we discussed it, authors believe that his comments got addressed, appreciate some more reviews, and, hopefully, we can build can do may move forward"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "with this work. What I want to note is that in IPPM working group, we submitted a new stamp extension proposal that is applicable to active performance measurement in the multicast environments. So that is not covered in this document, but I'll appreciate your consideration. Questions please share them not only in the peer list, but on the PKM working group as well. Okay. You call for a drop or what's going on here? We are not calling an IPPM working group adoption yet, but during the presentation, shares suggested that once we come because we have some issues that offers want to address. before adoption. There are some technical issues, some scenarios, but they suggested that once we feel comfortable, then we can ask working group to consider working group adoption for probably before the 118 meeting. the weight, then you will have a special draft for beer or with an automatic clear apply? The idea is that stamp as it's defined, it's underlay agnostic Mhmm. So encapsulation can be IP or MPLS. or a beer? Uh-huh. So just want we want you to look at and consider what the mechanisms because, again, the extension and especially in multicast case can act as a amplifier. Right? Because -- Right. -- it's a 2 way active measurement protocol. So your tail nodes will be sending reflected packets towards your route We provision some mechanism to do layer 2 and layer"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "3 selective filtering. So identifying by the mask a subset of tails that should respond. Also in this mech in this extension, there is opportunity to turn a 2 way protocol into one way protocol. basically, that only downstream measurements will be okay. I think at least the applicability to be a document would be or deployment consideration would be adequate here. And I tell you also the other reason because I'm really Not concerned. No. No. No. I'm I I I am I I will really follow-up precisely here on all the involved IPR because now it's heavily IPR. It's excellent technology. Right? That everything disclosed, so we don't run into a wall here. Yeah. Okay. So think applicability, deployment considerations, something specific for beer. after this this is done. Right. Thank you. Yeah. But the thing is that what what I try to solicit here is your consideration of minimizing the possible negative impact of massive responses to the packet if someone still use it as a 2 way active measurement protocol. No. But that's, you know, deployment considerations document. Right? Yes. But it's again, what we learn what we thought of is that to have there are 2 and there are 3 group subtos to minimize the number of responses. So if that's sufficient or might be somebody would want to have more beer like bitmap of nodes that respond or not. Okay? Again, this is just to provoke your thinking. nearby, meaning the the beat mask with the destination, basically, with with with the BFRC addressing is already declining. Right? Yeah. Fair enough. The Bitmask might be that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "future. I'm not saying it's a solution, but it seems me kind of natural, but that leads to this no applicability statement. Right? How are you? Actually, Does it You have the OEM beats. Right? So that should be clear that you use the OEM beats not something funky on, you know, on top of beer or something. Okay. Good. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Next slide. said, Okay? So one question that I didn't put in slide is what working group wants to do with their OEM requirement document. We revised it. It's can be handled. It can be handled for historical kept for historical reasons or But I think we had this last time, right, that we want to preserve it Okay. So then it's ready. For review comments, The word last call? You want the last call on this thing? Okay. I know. That actually, that that was one of the points we discussed final data thing. with the Alvaro comments because it was unclear How hybrid performance measurements is related to the requirements. So that might be It makes sense to batch all OEM related documents together along with the requirements so that it's presents a more consistent landscape. For observation, but it's a good bunch And, I mean, at least the ping, I would like to get the stuff out there because there are implementations, right, multiple Absolute. Yes. Ping is a bread and butter of OEM. Yes. implementation before we get started. Okay. Thank you. Next up, Beer N6. Thanks, Andy. have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Good afternoon, everyone. I'm sending it down from the tea. This per attention is for bearing 6. A parenthesis on behalf of our call, sir. Jeffrey Ice Nagmana, Next, please. So let's see how to do beer in non impureauspv6 networks. Generally, we know that a heavy sick as belong to PR in nonamchargenetworks. So whatever, ipv6 or Ethernet or MTRS is just in the encapsulation. The non MTRs encapsulation following 1 or more outer header which could be Internet header. I mean, that a triple e has assigned as a Ethernet type 0xab 37 for a beer. And any outer header with a code point indicating payload. type is nonmprsphere, And so then, for example, a GIE header with prototype It's the same with unit type. 0x AB is 30 7. and the the ipv6 header. We know that, we will assign a protocol number for it. So it can be used for native IPV 6 tunneling or even whole pie hop. The whole pie hop co case is optional. For one hardware does not support a beer called point in outer header. And Some software based forwarding is acceptable. So the forwarding efficiency may be affected. Next, please. So it's the brief introduction of a bearing 6. The existing procedures defined for ipv4 MPRS networks apply to ipv6. with no need for any changes or enhancements."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:05",
    "text": "all the overlay technologies in whole hierarchy unchanged such as mvpn. team and the MLB and and so on. All the BR OEM technologies applied with no changing. as such as the BRP, GFD, and the performance measurement, the salon. And the the 3 underlay drafts, including IDP extensions, BTP extensions, or the intererror or interas prefix redistribution. are used for bureausignally. Next please. So this draft has been adopted after ATF 109. And then the overlay drops has have all passed the working group last So for this structure, we'd like to request working group plus call for more review. Thanks. Yeah. this is year 6. Yeah. So I started to see who thinks this is ready for last call. Just checking the room. Yep. I'm Ron, Sandy, run. Excuse me. was question. Oh, your laptop's so, you know, we're active. So Alright. We'll we'll add one to it. Wait. This is we have one person saying it's not ready for last call, which kind is price. I mean, like, because if you've got an issue, come to the mic, Tell us what's missing, what the errors may be, commission, mistakes, It's anonymous, so I can't even look and call them on the spot."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:04",
    "text": "no. They changed their mind. Alright. There we go. That's all. Put them on Oh, spot, and now we're in. Alright. I'll end that session. We get you noticed in the room. We'll take it to the list and move forward. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Right. Back to that, then I hit this. and I hit that and hit the share button What time this meeting's over, I'll be a pro at these tools, and then we'll change them again for Prague. Hello, everyone. Today, I'm going to talk about the ISS extension for BAT Next page, 1st, water first guy would just chunk it Nurse told me AC, Jeff, and the policy for their comment and suggestions. So in the updates to the previous version, We removed patties and the extra tags, and the 8 to the conference as suggested, We also added a sub tier v and sub sub sub tier v's. for routed PET position and a local decap it it positions. In addition, we made some editorial changes. So let's look at the sub tier v and the sub sub sub activity relative to p to position, On the local pickup bit positions, next page, We define a node, b to position, sub 12v, Basically, this sublevel v will contain 2 sub TLVs. or 2 sides of sub TierVs. One size of sub p is for routed assessment positions, configured on the node, On the o, Local cup, pithpositionproperty of these."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "So in the following, we defined these 2 sub TLVs. So for the routed bit position sub subtier v, Basically, this software we contains speed position, for that remoted beta position, configured on the node, And the old in addition to that, because routing the bidposition is for At your adjacency, from my node to remote node. So we also needed to have the information the ID, of that, remote node or peer. beyond BFRs. Another subtotal V, is a local decafpit position sub subs subtlev, So these are substubtovjustcontainthebidposition No decoupledecapital positions compete on the node. So that's roughly Attention or addition, to the net to the nature of draft. So Next, I'll talk about the extensions for OCF. Next page, So here, I'll talk about OSPF extensions, and all skill all skill very 1st 3 extensions. for BATs. Next page, So, also, with the electrostatic, AC, last Tony, Jeff, I told us, their common end suggestions. So in the updates, updates, to the previous version, We changed the subsuppers POV, to sub t of these because in o sphere, we don't have a sub sub. We only we only have One level. on the TLV. So we change change it that way. a suggested and also edit that reference. In addition to that, we ate as TRV and the sub TLV, for routes get the position, get the position, get the position, get the position, get the and the local decapeutic resistance"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "And then there's some editorial changes. So let's look the TLV and the sub TLVs of these 4, routed up into position, and local decapbitpositions. Next page. Next page. So we define a note, a note, beta positions, TORV, So basically, this 12v contains routed, d to position, subtle of these. and or, local decap, it positions subgen of these. So in following, we just define that these two subtailavis. So round to the bid position subtolv, Basically, either contains pit position, conveyed, on the node, for routed bit positions to a remote node. So this is a subtitle v, It also contain the ID that a remote node. So another sub TLV is for No call decouped positions. So this subgroup v, Just contain pdeposition For local decomposition, configure on the node. So with this TRV, the sub TLVs, We can distribute The Roll it to be the position, convict on the note, the local decoupled position can be found on the note. Get So next page, So we would like have comments regarding to this new additions, and one raised hand. got 2 wrist hands. Go ahead, Jeffrey. So I made a comment on the before that I see 3 graphs,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "about ISS, OSPF, and OSPF 3. signaling. for this for the signaling of bit positions And then we also have another drip that covers the 5th ID signaling. And I think We should only have one we should only need one wrap that covers all this both speed position, and B5d signaling. for ISIs, OSPF and West 53. And then we can have another draft that covers the pit point and beef ID signaling for PGP. So, basically, 2 graphs. cover all this, it should be good enough. Right now, this not owning that this there were 3 drafts covering the people when pip position signaling, but it does not cover the p 5 I think the P5d should should be added as well. Yeah. I think We also answer Ditch comments on the list, Why we have 3 draft? I saw Sofia for nosebleed 3. because we just follow the The older draft older extensions, for for the peer, peer, Because in the b, we have 3 Looks like we have 3 procaments I says, ospf and ospf3. So we just follow the follow that one. Okay. I I I I I think I missed I missed that re reply, I guess. that's In the early days of a beer, it makes sense to to have separate eyes and ospf graphs. but now the that the beer is already in you know, pretty mature and signaling here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "for for big precision amplified, they are really just in incremental additions to the existing product And we also have the ISIS and OSGF. all covered by the Sydney, the ISR, group. think at this point, it makes sense to have a single draft to cover ISS, OSGF, b2andb3. And I can I can I agree that we can have a separate draft for for BGP, and that's fine. But each draft should cover both be position signaling, and the PCIe signaling as well. Yeah. Recognant 1, I'm open, but think it's better to just maybe ISS is one drop And OspF is one drop OspF containing OSPF, the OSB versus Re they have us You see the coding encoding may be a a little different in in that sense. In the in the igp or ASR group, also have some draft combine everything together, And then some job is separate. I said, I know it's OSPF. Yeah. I I just stated my my my my very reference and viewpoints, but I think it's up to the working group. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I agree with you. Oh, good. So, Jeffrey, can you stay on the mic? I just wanna clarify that. Let me I got nothing but great respect for your clarity in thinking through this. So taken this very seriously. if I can rephrase this. The original ISP I have ISIS OSPF drafts. at the beginning of the period where foundational. This is how you do all this. You're saying now, this is just an extension so the extension itself should cover each of the protocols rather than having a protocol draft. each protocol, defining the same extension, It's yes. Similar extensions. Yeah. Yeah. I think in the terms of of clarity, points of clarity, like, I'm looking for extensions for te, Where do I find them? which protocol. Like, it's really It's not a lot of information in the draft. maybe I I think I kinda lean in your direction."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "we should take some feedback from the group and see what we get I mean, just the idea of blowing out draft just because we separate by protocol, may not always make sense. If we're defining the same extension, 4teandbeer, is how you do it across all these ITPs might be a cleaner way of document. Right? Okay. Thank you. Okay. Next next presentation. next page, So this is about a a BRT for broadcast link. Next page. So here, the updates to the previous version is that we give details in example elastric the issues, and there's also some editorial changes. We add detail because I think a trigger mentioned that long time ago. He's not clear. that is lithium. So Here, we just give more details and then show there is a easy next page. So here, we use the example, show the issues. We have duplicate the package on the on a receipt note, So here, we just give a pass So this hash is from is a a represented by green on on on this picture, basically, this path is from a, 2 b And then this this segment is represented by up be the position 2 a prime, either in red color. And then from b, to g, And to see, This Two segment is encoded by be the position in 4, prime and the 6 prime, And then From g, To note, k On age, This two segment is encoded by be the position 14 prime,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "and the 19 prime. For the segment from a c to f, So this segment, is encoded by be the position 12 prime. So we can see that the representation, we don't have any duplicate. But if you go through the procedure And then we can see Motor h will receive duplicates. One packet, Well, from g, and solid grain. And then the other package will be from Know the sea. past degree, When node a receiver it from traffic source, Not a, So we assume that the packed will which those are Market history encoded. So that's Matter control is either encoded by 2 prime, 4 prime, and so on. So at node a, node a only only count no cockpit position, which is 2 prime which is in red color, So use this b to position, node a, we'll send the package to know to b, And then the 2 prime is removed. From the From the least, At the node p, So notably only cows about won't copy the position, which is a full prime On the 6th prime, which it also in red color, So node b will send the package to Know the g, using Did position float? 4 prime, And then, notably, also, send the package to Notice c, which using the pit position 6th prime, the notion g, At The package we have have Those are 12 prime the 14 prime or 19 prime,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "indicated that past segment, On the tree, And to know to see, The package will have 12 prime, 14 prime, and also 19 primes. because those are pit position is not removed, by the Previous node b, because per preference those b only cares Those local beta positions, which is 4 prime the 6th prime, So let's look at the details on the those know the g and the know the c next page, So on the knowledge, we can see that Lotage only takes care The no computer positions which is 14 prime and the 19 prime. So node g, because of the pass, contain this 2 segments. indicated by those bid positions, which it great color. numberg will send the package to Noted g and notes g was impacted to another k, using 14 prime bid position. And then, know the g will also send the package to No to h. using the local bit position, maintain prime, which is red color. So this time, not the edge. receive one copy over the package don't know the c. Notice c, has Local be the position 12 prime, So normal c US in the package to another f using this locopithecus on 12 prime. At the same time, notice see where all those in the packet 2, Both to h using No code be the position 19 prime, because 19 Proam, is the local people position from the sea. So we can see that Delta h receives 2 copies of package this is duplicate package. So this is the issue."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "So we propose a solution to resolve this use. I think it will next page, So, basically, we propose this. So we always presented this solution when we present this draft a long time ago. So we just refreshed here. So, basically, we know for broadcast link, already have student node So in OCF, we have Doctor. DR as a pseudo node. So in ISS, we have also have record a d IS, what this, something like that. So we have we already have See the note, in the being stated, database. So we just promote that one. We just reuse that concept So for the forecasting, we we Also use a pursuit node. So here, for this for for hotening, we use a personal p x. In fact, in the links database, we also have some connections from Note attached to the broadcast link to the pursuit note. So we just signed them ming Ming positions to these links the links, between the pursuit node? Under the note, attach it to the workhouse link, workhouse link, Then with this assignment, p to position assignment. So we just use the highlights pit position yellow, and then we have the Marketcast Tree, encoded by bit positions, According to this beta assignment, then in this way, We will not have packages. So next page, So this is just so the procedures, and then it will go through the procedures, and then At the notice c, We can see that, notice c will not have no competitors are just positions to not hedge. So we don't well, not have a duplicate the packages. So next page,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "Yeah. I think that's all we would like more comments. can't do this one. Any questions? Anyone chat? We got one hand. sustainability In fact, I don't think this problem is a true in fact because I think the the problem can be avoided by configuration or controller. So so I don't think controller will make these tool tool tool tool tool to come to encode the wrong bit mapping the wrong in in the back. So so I don't think It's a problem, and it need to be solved. So that that's my opinion. Yeah. Yeah. That's a cool question. And then we can go go go back to the the page using example, Please listen to you soon. Yep. That one? No. Not this one. This one will will will this one fix fix the prop easy. not have a h one The first first one, I'm Yeah. This one. Yeah. This one. So with this Peter position assignment And then using even use a controller to avoid The duplicate package looks like Just consider this a market history. So how do you come up with encoding For this market history with all the duplicate packets. Yeah. This one. because we don't have enough information to indicate The remote node In addition to that, because in the BIT, the exit existing RFPBIT, I mean,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "each node Only capability Chain, look at look at or process the local be be the positions. I mean, they only have the information or capability to process the p positions on the link connected to that node. So for the beta partition beyond the by note to self, be don't have capability to process that one. That's the reason. But if you read the FC 92 too carefully, and you will see that if you want to build a multicarched paths for this For this scenario, you must link up some necessary be seeing it, and Maybe some maybe in some cases, there is duplicate, but it's corner of corner. case? Yeah. That's the case here. Maybe maybe, but I don't think there is really existing. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe you can you if you say it's not existing, And then for this example, maybe just you give encoding and to show that, There's no issue, and then I I can remove this trough, then that's that's okay. So that's why I'm hoping you can cancel their halfway. 1. Yeah. For the tallest, the RFC, I think, We read that one carefully. I think a use the use solution proposal by Thomas, That's a -- Yeah. -- tree, whatever. I think I cannot figure out the way to avoid this issues. I don't think so. Yeah. Yeah. People like example. I saw the example here, You just give me a example, and then resolve this issue, and then I'm happy too. I think if you want to encapsulate some bit streaming your much cost pass. Right? So you will encapsulate the necessary link in that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "and you want to encapsulate the duplicate for on or redundant passing it. So I don't think It's really Yeah. You So for this example, for the green pass, And then encoding for the green pass, there's no that's a touch the green green nice. But Those encoding over the past if we go through a procedure, describe in that that RFC, and then we will get a duplicate the package, in the package, in the package, In fact, I don't see the green don't see the duplicate market, and then we could go through that again. You yeah, we can we'll go through that again. You see? atg, So when g receive a package, So does the big position needs is a in that 12 prong, 14 prime, the landing prime. So only not the g only capable, Or cow The bid position, 14 primeand90 prime, red color, Right? Because 14 prime, the bit position for k. So you using that one, we'll go to k. 19 prime use that bit equation, partly was sent to h. Right? Because that way, it's a connected through a broadcast link. to know the g. At node c, When c received packet, So c, the packet will contain Tope front, 14 prime and the 19 prime and so on. Right? So at the moment, c not to see only capital or care about an no computer positions. which is 12 prime On the London Prime, I'm sorry to interrupt you because I said, in red color. Right? while you want to encapsulate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:04",
    "text": "the purity in pass in the midstream. you must consider. which parts will be duplicated. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. That's what we are we're in code. That's right. You want to -- controller is has something intelligent, and it's not still So I don't think they the controller will make these mistake to to do extra So and I think this scenario has been considered in I see 9262. So you can't which the exam report in the drop of c and the c how to encapsulate the past. in a bit of stream. So That's my opinion. Okay? Okay. If we want to discuss more, we can discuss offline. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. So this one, we give example, have issue, have duplicate. And then you said that you controller is intelligence and then can encode the package in cold market country without the duplicate the package, and then just encode this one. as a controller. And then with all the duplicate, duplicate, That's okay. if you can find the one, you can you can find the encoding of of beta projections, for this, Marketcast Tree without duplicate? That's okay. That's fine. Yeah. Show me in in the list. More questions? comments, Pardon me? It's just probably a good discussion to have a robust be close. this looks that Yeah. followers certainly is down from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "Yeah. it's a good discussion. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. Yeah. could you do that, Sandy? Could you articulate your your discussion on the list so that we can have a good record of it rather than trying to catch up with this or Openpong. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. appreciate that you have a complete example, and thank you. Good job, AD doing AD stuff. Alright. I think with list of materials, that was the last that we had. for today, While we're 30 minutes early, Jefferies got 1 more. Birrick said, oh, there it is. Where is it? His just disappeared. Oh, there it is. Gotcha. Alright. Sorry. So this Sit down and wait. This is the peer extension headers updates. So the coauthors include myself, Xiaomi, and the e song and woman. there. Next slide, please. So the motivation is that Well, for there are there are cases where we want to extend the beer Yeah. functions, and and we need to be your extension header. and more importantly, There are some functions that are generic across layers. For example, If say that someday, we want to do fragmentation reassembly. It's if We wanna do it at i p atmpslayeror@ablayerlayer We would like to have the same encoding format so that the hardware implementation can be reused. There are some other functionalities that's what I call it, generic delivery functions. in c2 OEM is another example. would like to see that we have the same encoding, for the for the data It's just Those"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "those examples, but not necessarily that they will have the same same encoding. But here, tide, tight, tight, the intention is that whenever possible, we want to have the same encoding. So the the 00 revision was aligned with the draft zone, MPOS extension header, because as I mentioned, that we want to 0, to to be consistent. Can you go back to that slide? Or But so that drop zone NPL extension here was aligned with the IPV 6, next header concept. and the intention was that applicable IPVX extension headers will be used could be used as is. That was the noble goal. But then Drevson was not at the adopted in m p MPOS working group. Another draft is now then candidate solution is not adopted yet, but it it it's another candidate. In there, the next header concept is no longer used. And because we want to line to be set aligned between Beer and MPOS. so we updated our peer extension header crapped. to to to align with this new candidate solution as well. Next slide, please. take questions. Craig? Yeah. Quick Greg, Greg, Greg, Greg, I'd probably wait till the end. because I wanna wait. Okay. So it's just general observation on ongoing discussion on M And A Okay. Again, 1st Right. There you go, Jeffrey. Andrew."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "I have a a feeling that my my my question and comments probably related to Greg's comment without even hearing what Greg's comment is. I I would say that considering the debate that is currently going on in the MPLS side. with ISD versus PSD versus insert list of acronyms as long as my arm and where that is going. we need to if you are looking for alignment, you're gonna need to trade pretty carefully because at this point, I'm not sure anybody knows where that's going. You've got a candidate solution as you say that may or may not happen. As you know, Song was the solution, and then it wasn't the solution, etcetera. So you need to tread pretty carefully here if you're looking for alignment or alternatively fund a way to do this that you know, is outside of what may or may not happen there because I don't think anybody really knows. So I think we should make a reattempt to align it with MPLS We're both 2.5. It will be silly, right, to run off sideways and later do some think, terminally stupid, which I hope they want. I mean, there's too much of those provision there. It's still I mean, it's interesting just to get the update where the stuff's going. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So if if I may, then I will share what I want to say is that I As Andrew pointed out, the discussion is open. The current state of the art on on these documents We have adapted framework document, requirements document, use case document, and solution for ISDN encapsulation. The discussion is around"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "What use cases do we have that cannot be solved using ISD So Up till now, it looks like all the use cases that are listed in a adopted document, can be solved, using our ISD solution. So now the the question is so is the beer use case. is really that one that cannot be solved using ISD. So if that's the case, if that will be demonstrated and the working group agrees with that then it and probably will stimulate discussion of what piece this solution could be. because there some issues, that PSD brings in In particular, It's deposing of PSD block in the decapsulation process. And second, it's interaction with a non IP payload. because usually the non IP payload has its post stack header of its own. and PSD introduces another post catheter. least one. So what I would encouraging and think that that's what Andrew pointed to, and Tony agreed is beer to act review current documents. They are all in MPLS working group. and join in discussion and provide your feedback. from the beer per. point of view, point of view, point of view. Point of view Yeah. Thank you for for those appointments. Indeed, I have been following MPOS more very closely. I know that it's controversial there. The I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "While I do want to align with the MPOS PSD solution. But if MPS PSD solution does not progress And when we have if we have a urgent need to standardize our extension carrier, then we will we do not need to wait for MPOS. But as long as we still have time, we can we can consider that we're trying to align with the MPI PSD base solution. the reason I I wanted to go with the PSD solution in the the MPOS site, is because the ISD solution with NTOS has this s bits in the middle. That means that's You cannot align with the IPV 6 encoding. And So now we have the 3 way. NTOS, ipv6andbeer. So if MPRs says that I will not use PST. I will just use IST whenever possible. 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, 9, to me, beer is fed off aligned with IPV Six, that that that that And, indeed, This draft here does not use the next header the concept of ipv6. But other than that, that the actual that that data encoding Well, my my thinking is that it will follow the IPV6 Alright. I I think, again, it's about concerns and very technical. arguments. the position in MPOS network actions, discussions as I understand it, is that to make sure that our solution that we adapt for i's Any."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "dataplane solution that being adopted allows for PSD. But when it happens, yes. We don't know because we don't have at hand their case that everybody agrees that cannot be done with ISD. So what decision beer group takes it's for beer consideration. Correct. Correct. Correct. Yeah. I told quiz Andy. in my opinion, whatever ISD or PSD is suggested for MPRS So for beer, they are it's different. So with Whatever MTS will adopt PSD or not. I think there should consider the extension header. Right? Because we have Ethernet and a PV6, in Hipsolations. So We think that whatever. pst. is adopted or not. It's not a it has not a relationship with beer. Yeah. your house It's an old discussion. Yeah, Right. Yeah. I I I guess I to clarify that trying to align with MPOS Many refers to the Got it. concepts of that next header concept. Initially, I had tried to to return that next header concepts I'm I no longer or or or yeah. insist that, and that is the main thing here. So then when you consider ISD versus PST, debate in NTOS. perhaps I should it's just and I should no longer say that we'll try to align with MPOS. Yeah. That's good."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:02",
    "text": "Yeah. Well, if they have a requirements document I mean, let it write. Look at the requirements document, see what applies to us and whatnot and bring this analysis be more fruitful to trying basically to run to run behind a couple of cats you know, with cans on the tails. Yep. there'll be one suggestion. Could we be a fruitful discussion? Right? Okay. So anyway, the screen, you can see that at on top is the beer header. the total field of the beer header will have a new value to indicate that there is a beer extension header follows. and then the red colors are the extension header. It has a top header first and then followed by the individual extension header. And finally, it's the original peer payload without the extension header. Next slide, please. the extension top header basically includes pip it in the reserve field, and then the extension header, total length followed by the next header value. total length of the extension header is is self explanatory. Next header basic indicates that your peer node type. So if that p bit is clear, then only the 6 bit of that 8 bit next header field is used. it's just near protocol number that defined for beer is the same as that protofield in a beer header itself. Since we do have the space here, and put the use the PPA to indicate the oh, this next header value is actually APIDS. you can just take the value from the Internet and protocol number registry. that give that will give us"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:03",
    "text": "more numbers to identify the payloads. that is only needed when we whenever we open one way ever run out of the 6 beats photo. number, Next slide. So extension header is basically starting with a opcoats followed by the 2 reserve bids, and then the 7 bit extension header lens. and then followed by the data. So for a generic function that could be applicable across ipv6 and TSO beer. the encoding of that that's data fields, would be aligned. At least that is the goal. But here, the ex extension header opcodes It it it will have our will have our own opcode. It does not have to be aligned with IP protocol, IP, the this is the option number or even MPOS extension header up number. So if we fork opcodes, I mean, running on the common encoding is more confusing than anything else. Right? because you show the same syntax, but you change possibly semantics. mean, all this stuff only has value as far as I see. We stay on the same registries. Right? That's a sideways observation. Yeah. Having the same registries it's going to make the the assignments more complicated. And also, i, We it may it's it may we may round up op codes. So yeah. No. One thing, I mean, if you build silicon for the Right? Then you have a common block, but the opcode at the end is different semantics. Yeah. Yeah. That that's good good good points. We can we can talk about the options. Yep. Yep. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "Next slide, please. So seeking the seeking comments and suggestions, Well, the data we are watching the the MPOS PSD development And if they don't get their consensus soon and if we need we need to move forward for our reasons, then we'll just align ourselves as ipv6 as much as possible and we should be forget that's it. No. Again, I would encourage somebody to take the requirements document and see whether we have more requirements and which of the requirements you can apply to us. And, you know, that gives the you know, a reasonable basis for any kind of future direct also when we didn't have to talk and synchronize with MPLS chairs and the ADAs and explain, you know, why we or not forked or what we picked Thanks. Right now, the only concrete use case of a beer extension header will be the incito OEM. fragmentation reassembly and security. Those are are things that we could do. but maybe we would nobody will do it after all. It's something we could do. No. I mean, those are valuable options. even if there are just you know, give us a degree of freedom in design. Right? So it doesn't have to be done now. But if we think it's a degree freedom that is architecturally important, that that's already a requirement as far as I see. Yeah. Yep. Go ahead, Greg. Yes. Thank you. Okay. Since MPLS is still discussing how to do in c2 OEM over MPLS data plane. I think that that might be good to have your input because, as Jeffrey pointed out, because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:03",
    "text": "of certain architectural limitations of ISD that is not one to one mapping to, for example, ipv6 But the consideration that we have in MPOS networks and, specifically, for the case of deterministic networking that one of the working group that chatter at this M anda activity is that most usable mechanism is the direct expert that does not put data in the packet So thus ISD solution is considered as a viable option. So that's something that definitely will be good to have discussion here in the peer group, on the list or next meeting and follow closely the discussion because we have 2 proposals for encoding. 1 in the ISD based and other is PSD based. So because they provide the same functionality, I believe that they be some point when the will be called for adoption of both and probably only one will be adapted. Thank you. box. Again, requirements get the numbers Yeah. So all this discussion I mean, to to structure, it it always boils down mean, all their requirements, any additional requirements we have, which one can we ignore gap analysis? Alright. Otherwise, we're going just like to don't like circles around. and play encoding wars. Stand with Lucy. Do not sign the blue sheet. Just scan the blue sheet. Happened on Monday. Someone brought it up there with the signature on it for real. Alright. Any other questions hot issues, bits of contention to throw our way. Here we go. Jeffrey, go ahead."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:03",
    "text": "So there there have been some offline discussion about potential beer interrupt the events part of hackathon -- Yeah. -- in in prod. I had intended to send our email to the public peer menonist. I have not done that yet. I I will do that. and So anyone and interest in that Internal. Who do we have confirmed so far? think we have I I I don't know if it's real confirmation. I but I think Nokia Juniper Huawei all indicate their the also CTE. And then they already indicated their their But I I intention. again, that's just unofficial Gotcha. Anything from Cisco we're working with, man? I forgot if Cisco k. NEP 4 implementation from -- Oh, yes. Yes. Okay. Good. Good. Right. I will send out email to the public muteness. Will this take place during the hackathon or some the time during the week. Part of the hackathon. That's that's what we're thinking. Very good. Very good. Alright. I'll bake a point at the end of that weekend then. beforehand. Excellent. Thanks, Jeffrey. Is that one more? Here we go. Good. Take it. Yeah. So Yeah. The intro is actually great. But I I think we need to agree on the connectivity to, like, the SF be you know, whether it's just rj45 and stuff like that. Right? Because I know some people here, their implementation is like a simulator. and some implementation. like ours is on the actual hardware. So, like, coming up with the 1 gig rj45 Could become response. So that's one thing. Is it gonna be, like, actual simulator to simulator? like, actual hardware sitting in there and trying to Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:07",
    "text": "So even in this case of simulator, there is actually hard work based platform that Indeed, similar to what make testing easier. and I assume there are ways to connects the simulator and the actual hardware. So those are the details we need to figure out. i i. In fact, that is actually my weak point to to to to to figure out how to do that. And -- Excellent. -- we will need to discuss ahead of Penn, for sure. If you need an independent third party to sit in the middle of all that, let me know. I have no hat. Okay. Despite this despite this one here. Yeah. Alright. That was great. Looking forward to Prague. Anything else going on? The issue's gonna bring up, chance to throw stuff at us, Last raw tomato from the AD, You lose. No more opportunities. This meeting is adjourned. So keep it productive and keep it know, a little bit, you know, more civilized. Thank you, Gerald. And, yes, that it was last couple of times. I'd like to apologize for my cochair and sleepy actions this morning. Right. Yeah. Thanks, everybody."
  }
]
