[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:15",
    "text": "hi mike we can hear you great thanks so let's start hello everyone welcome to the past computation element working group first session so as you can see here as you probably noticed on the agenda we will have a second session on friday afternoon or friday whatever time zone you live in so we'll try to fill uh on respect the scheduled agenda it's tied for both sessions so we'll try to move on time next please so you should all be familiar with the usual not well usual reminder about the ipr rules within the atf you should be aware of that when you sign to the medical tool when you book the atf attendance i guess as well so if you aren't familiar with those please have a look at the references here remind that anything you say share or follow discuss within the etf this may maybe subject to some idf processes related to the ipr rules so please follow them next the guidelines are for conduct so we know that since we don't meet face to face sometimes the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "relationship between people may be a bit different because we don't see each other so keep in mind that we are all respectful young beings we're all expected to respect our colleagues and be kind with them we may have disagreement at some point but we're supposed to have in personal technical discussions we are here to act as a group to build the internet standards so make sure that you are following the respectful otherwise your chairs may have to act on complex situations next please so we are online so as you may be aware of now there are some rules of conduct to make it convenient for everyone when connected on mythical try to mute yourself all the time on unmute only or when you need to present or when you acknowledge on the queue to raise a question or a comment you may use your video knowing that connection for people may be different you weren't necessarily supposed to if you feel it may be complicated for your access link headsets are recommended because typically mics are much better when close to the month may take all under the blue sheets stuff there's a chat you may be already using it from time to time uh some mythical information is at the link that is displayed here and you're still the the usual java chat which is tunnel to mythical so whatever door"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "you're using you are probably converging uh so we have uh harry acting as a secretary for a session [Music] he's using the the notes new url notes itf.org the kodi md2 to take the minutes if you want to give him a hand please feel free to connect to the outside f4.org the better the more people using it on putting footer the better the methods will be at the end about the session itself if you want to join the queue you have the mythical icons to raise your hand you will be given the floor at your turn remember to state your name there is all your recording in progress and as usual since we have tight agendas try to [Music] be mindful of your time and try to include the questions and comment as part of your slot when you're presenting thanks next please as usual we remind you that there is a mailing list to discuss any topics related to pc working group and especially progress to the work please try to be as vocal as possible when we are sending some polls on the mailing list working with lascal documented options ipr checks of course so make sure that you're catching up with the topic discussed and please feel free to create new thread if necessary you don't have to wait for a slot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "during the meeting to start new work or progress existing works we have a wiki which is full of very relevant information if you feel there are some missing ones either edit it or send a mail to the chairs and secretary and don't forget to request uh cutpoint early quarter location if you feel that you have implementation at stake that may require cut point before the document is published as an lc and has gone through the inr there is a process for that and we already have a couple of documents in this case so keep in mind this is part of the usual business to make sure that you don't collide or squat cut points when you implement a specification next please so the agenda we have here the agenda for both sessions if anyone has something to bash now is the time especially for today's session no one's in the queue so we'll move on and i'll give the floor to draft for the document status for the pc working group yeah thanks julian so a quick document status we have no new rfcs since the last itf we have a document in the rfc editor queue in fact it's been there for a long time uh we did try to uh unblock it so a version 13 was posted to strip the blocking part which was the l2 vpn flow spec from this id because that is now dependent on the flow spec v2 work which is ongoing in idr and a separate id uh has been created where we have moved the content related"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "to l2 vpn flow spec into a separate id so one option that the authors asked was can this be quickly adopted since the content was already in a document which had the working group and in fact itf consensus so can we do a quick working group adoption call so this question is still open if anybody has any comments and thoughts please join the queue otherwise i am sure julian will take an action on it since i am a co-author uh the next document that we have is the binding sid this is the document with with our ad our ad gave comments and i think the authors have updated it and handled the comments so now it's just wait waiting for ad to uh go ahead uh john do you have any comments on this otherwise i'll move on i know i don't um acknowledge that i'm that you're waiting on me so i will get to those soon thank you thank you john so next we had an erata uh this was uh an errata based on uh the rbnf ordering with respect to lsp object and class type object in pc request this was rejected and john gave his reasoning clearly on the mailing list and there was some free some corresponding discussion as well on the thread on how we can resolve such a problem there is a new id proposed on it and it's on the agenda on the friday session where we can discuss this in more detail we have three documents which had asked for early ina code point and all of these are allocated please note the expiry date uh so the expectation is that if there is a second uh call needs to be made for extending just keep this in mind ideally we would like to if the document is ready within that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:02",
    "text": "timeline that would be much better otherwise we would need to request an extension so next i will quickly go over some of the working group documents especially the documents where we want to check the status from the authors these are the documents which are nearing working group last call which is stateful gmpls i think authors have done their job and it is they have confirmed that it is ready for working with lascal and i think the chairs will take an action on it next pretty soon uh with the second document so i request authors if they disagree with what i'm saying and if they have further comments please join the queue and i will give you the floor the second document is the enhanced error we discussed this in the last meeting as well and chairs have not made a decision on what to do next with it uh just to recap when we polled for interest on this document we did not get much interest shown on the list uh some of the options that we were thinking that maybe we can make it experimental but even if we do that we would still need more people to review and send comments and confirm that they feel like the document is ready for publication as an experimental document another option was that we mark it in our data tracker as waiting for implementation and let's see if one of the work like maybe stateful inter domain or some other work take up uh this enhanced error mechanism and start using it and implementing it and at that time it would be a good idea to uh maybe publish the two work together so we are still uh waiting for uh like you know decision on this if anybody has any thoughts please reach uh reach out to chairs at any time and after this itf most probably we will be making a decision on this pretty soon next we have psep yank"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "uh this an update was posted uh uh on this last month the comments were there from tom patch and thanks for him for doing a good review and always providing comments with each update uh the yang doctor review on this document is pretty old so i think one is we can look for a young doctor review and even working group last call next the thing to note on the right hand side is the dependencies so it is dependent on some documents like itf tls client and itf tls solver both of them in working group last call in netconf itfte in teas is also in the queue for working group last call so i think uh psepjank can move and all our dependencies are kinda handled and this document could also be uh moved to working up last call and yang doctor review etc pretty soon uh i wanted to highlight about native ip uh we posted it on the idr list that we are looking for feedback since this is related to bgp uh session establishment via psep uh we have also authors have asked for agenda time in the idr so in tomorrow's session on thursday they will be discussing and we hope to get some early feedback uh from the idea on this and whenever we do the working group class call on this document i will make sure that we cross post it in the both working group so that there are not no late surprises when it moves out of the working group with flex grid there hasn't been a change for a pretty long time uh but authors want to give a chance do you think the document is ready is there any open issues with it if they have any information that they won't pass on this is a good time to do that otherwise i'll move on but the wiki is there you can always update and keep the working group in loop with your working group document status"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "these two documents are sr the document related to srv6 again this has been pretty stable in my reading this might be nearing working group last call status if authors have any update on this please let us know i don't see anyone coming in i will wait for a second no uh the next one we have vn association in this authors have confirmed that this is ready so we will take an action on it uh accordingly the two sr path segment an sr bi-directional document these have have been updated but not too much of technical changes mainly sync up with published documents i don't see any open issues on these documents so hopefully these documents are also nearing working group last calls if any of the authors want to say something please go ahead otherwise this is the status as for working group that this document the uh the candidate path sr policy document it's on the agenda so uh we will discuss this next anyways with respect to local protection enforcement there was an update no significant change there is an ina allocation for this and i think if the document is ready and there is nothing pending i think i request authors to prepare and uh ask for working group last call accordingly andrew go ahead yeah this is andrew um yeah i just wanted to acknowledge that it's basically just been kind of sitting in a steady state um so if anybody has any concerns or comments definitely i'm all ears otherwise i mean it's it's there it's pretty straightforward there's two implementations so whenever the working group feels that it's ready i'm good to proceed further with it thanks thanks andrew"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "uh we have a pcc sr there was an update and they have done the alignment with the published rfc 1950 so thanks for that uh for stateful interdomain we did not have an update this time uh for extended flags a new version has been posted and the comments that were received during the adoption call are handled so thank you for that again let's keep our documents up to date and handle comments as and when we get them multipath is on the agenda the state sync was updated and again the comments that were received during the adoption call were handled so thanks authors for that and finally this is our recent adopted working group document on optional objects the authors have posted an update and have handled comments during the working group adoption so thanks again for that and finally this is our working group adoption poll queue there is an ongoing call for srp to mp policy and our plan is uh to do a reshuffling of our queue so after it of 112 we will reshuffle our adoption queue based on the feedback that we get so if you have any comments please reach out to our chairs uh during this time and we will be publishing the updated poll queue on our wiki that's it if anybody has any comments on the working group documents please use this time otherwise we'll move to the main agenda saying no one off to you mike thanks um hi everybody i'm michael i'm from cisco systems presenting uh piece of extensions for signaling multi-path information on behalf of my co-authors next page please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "so just to give a quick review of uh what this draft is you know high level about is that if you have the pc compute compute something that it allows you to return multiple paths for that computation so basically and we keep this independent of any data plane or application such as sr policy rcpte and we also make the extensions applicable to stateful and stateless psab so it works just as well with pc request and pc reply so for example if you want like to send just a pc request with requesting a path you can use all these extensions uh just as well next slide please so um basically without this draft pc can only return either zero or one forward pass in response to a computation request so this was sufficient for rcpt tunnels because they always follow like each hop is one link then with sr policy we required that there could be multiple forward paths for a certain candidate path uh and so as our policy has this concept of segment lists under each candidate path and so the traffic towards each candidate path is spread out among the different segment lists and so this draft was originally motivated by this application of multiple segment lists but again as i said we keep it completely agnostic of any application"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "so it's not limited to sr policy and then with the latest uh set of updates to this draft we allow not only uh four multiple forward paths but we allow multiple reverse paths to be returned and there's a kind of a detailed mapping from each forward path to a set of reverse paths and from each reverse path to a set of forward paths that i will examine in the next few slides next slide please so we just defined this tlv called opposite direction path tlv and this uh tov goes into the path attributes object and it specifies the uh one of the reverse paths or one of the opposite direction paths to the to the path that to the path of the like the current path attribute object so basically there could be multiple copies of or multiple instances of this tlv in each path attributes object because there could be multiple reverse paths for a given forward path and it's also not necessarily true that if path one is the opposite of path two it is not necessarily true that path two is the opposite of path one so basically this opposite oppositeness property is not mutual and i'll give an example of that later next slide please so here we'll go through an example of circuit style as our policies so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "circuit style as our policies are basically [Music] basically kind of two policies from opposite head ends or opposite routers and the the paths of these policies are very tightly coupled so each router uh when it sends traffic in the forward direction it knows that the reverse traffic will come back in on the same set of links in the reverse direction and basically what we want to do is we want each each of the routers so for example in this in this uh picture here there is h1 and e1 which are like the pe routers that have uh sr policies so there's basically an sr policy going from h1 to e1 and the reverse sr policy going from e1 to h1 so we can see that in the data model section here each answer policy has two candidate paths and each candidate path has two segment lists so if we look at the blue segment list for example on the left on router h1 this segment list goes h1 m1 m2 e2 and there's a corresponding reverse segment list blue on the right on router e1 that is just the reverse of that segment list so it will be it starts at e1 then goes to m2 then m1 and h1 so these two segment lists are you know they would be for example like adjacency labels that are just reversed and the goal is that each each of the policyhead ends must know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "the forward path obviously but also you must know the reverse path that corresponds to the to each forward path and so we see that in the psap signaling session section i basically is if you look at for example the blue ero if you just use that as an as a as a guide you'll see that the path attributes uh of that blue arrow have path id 1 and opposite path id 3 and then if you look at the second instance on the left of the blue ero you'll see that it has path id 3 and opposite path id 1. so it means that basically the second instance of the blue arrow is is actually a reverse arrow and it has this r flag set to one which means that it's basically not to be installed into forwarding but it's just for informational purposes and so the same the same thing repeats for the for the yellow ero so it's quite a bit of information um to kind of to analyze but if you if you just follow the colors i think it it kind of makes sense uh and for example there's like a purple ero in the second candidate path that does not have a reverse and basically that's also encoded with because it has the opposite path id of zero all right um chang has a question i'm not sure if i should answer it if i can answer it now if you want like tony from holly then i i didn't have time to read the detail of your draft and it's right but i have a simple simple question like uh i guess that you you know you know that we have a draft of bi-directional uh as a pause and we are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "using the part segment to associate the uh forward direction and the reverse direction pause into like how say about it by directional pause and we can make the uh the both direction pause as uh like offside up outside uh uh uh i'll say reverse uh all the c list like what you mentioned here so i would like to know that what's the difference between that solution and this solution right yes that's a very good question yeah that's a very good question so basically the the difference is that this solution lets you uh support multiple segment lists so it still uses these this bi-directional association if you look at the data model here there's like some noise change it still sends the bi-directional association a1 for candidate path one on h1 and and the same bi-directional association a1 on candid path 1 on e1 so that the two candidate paths are associated but it's also necessary to to link the each segment list together with with another segment list or with a set of other segment lists so that association works at the level of the candidate path but if you have a candidate path with uh multiple segment lists then it doesn't uh seem to work that well or it doesn't uh fully cover everything but we can take that discussion offline as well next uh slide please we can discard this further yep yeah so here i'll just give an example of um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "of of uh of a path that has a forward path uh with two reverse paths but uh the reverse paths or yeah the reverse path are not um so like the relationship is not mutual so basically like path uh two and three are the our opposite direction to path one but path one is not opposite direction to path two and three so if we look at this example there is a head end on on the left and if you look at how the sr traffic with node 04 would be sent it would be sent on the green links and the pc may give you the reverse paths a set of adjacency lists for example adjacency segment going from four to towards two and then towards one and then another adjacent label start going from four towards three towards one and um so this is encoded as i've shown below and basically what's important is that it's not true that basically the green path is the reverse of the yellow path for example or the reverse of the blue path but the yellow and the blue taken together are the reverse of the green so basically this encoding just allows you to have a very flexible uh way to to encode like relationship between paths if you want to for example send oem packets that loop uh you know that have a double stack of mpls labels like forward and reverse stack uh you know you could you could uh use this much uh much uh much more efficiently right because you could you could choose exactly which"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "reverse path it's gonna take uh you know the head end can choose exactly which reverse path is going to take next slide please so yeah just requesting some feedback from the working group on this [Music] recent set of additions for the reverse path and we need to request a code point allocation so that we can start implementing uh bike uh uh mike one uh comment that i would have with my chair hat on would be uh this is a pretty big change so do discuss this on the working group list like what is the requirement for this change get working groups feedback on this i think it's okay to update a working group document and ask for slot but like keep the mailing list engaged as well so bring up this change on the mailing list specifically and ask for feedback of the working group right thanks i'll do that and second i think adding to what cheng was saying uh i think we need to have a section which clearly describe the relationship with sr bi-directional and have a clarity on how that extension gets used in which cases and in case there is a multi-path how the two things will work with each other and of course you can imagine there could be error cases and others where you put some information in association and a little bit different information in your tlv so how all that thing will work together so a little bit more tightening is needed and i see i think some authors of sr bi-directional is also there so i'm hoping that they will keep track of this work as well so boris uh go ahead with your question a very short comment mike will be very helpful if implementation status will be added to the next version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "yeah we don't currently uh have uh an implementation uh status um but uh we will add it as soon as possible and that's why iona code points would also be very useful rakish everyone this is from cisco uh so just to add to the previous comments uh in the sr bi-directional draft we have added a new section that talks about the relationship with this drop that mike is presenting as well as i think there is a explanation in the draft that mike is presenting uh with some examples that also points back to the bi-directional uh how it could work so they both have some i guess sections uh about so please uh review the the text then let us know the feedback thanks sakish when it's finished i just want to get a feedback from the working group and let's discuss further here thanks mike there was also a a point that that kaithin brought up in idr working group just before this where he was mentioning that some of these changes uh needs to be discussed in spring as well and he brought up the issue actually related to a backup segment list and where he was saying that that's not a part of the sr policy architecture and uh it's something that is missing so we need to keep the track of that as well i wanted to make sure that it's captured in our minutes so that we can track it um yeah that's a good point i'll sync up with kate and yeah uh lua so i haven't really carefully read shanks draft and mike staff"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "together but it seems like there is an opportunity to to merge draws here uh would that fly with the authors um like the sr bodier draft is more like associating you know different candidate paths um but this draft is is working within each candidate path to further kind of associate uh you know segment lists i think that is fine if that's the case i think you should actually get some some text about that in your draft and they right yeah some in their draft yeah point taken yeah i think that that's kind of missing yeah some linkage between them uh rakish quickly see uh the need to merge them they are quite different uh use cases so they solve different problems uh there is text for that in the binder draft please review and let us know you think that thanks yeah and also uh just a like a one five second uh comment like i keep this or we keep this this multipath draft as completely uh agnostic to any sr uh technology right so basically it's uh it's kind of a generic psap extension that can be applied to you know other data planes okay mike let's move on to the next presentation which is also by you yep hi again so i'm mike from cisco i'll be presenting psep extensions to support segment routing policy candidate paths on behalf of my co-authors next slide please um so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "there were some or there are some like uh generic kind of tunnel mechanisms that were standardized as part of sr policy architecture draft uh these include uh computation priority explicit null label policy drop upon valid and specified bc only uh the first two are kind of not really implemented that much but we still you know need to standardize them and piece up and we want to make these these mechanisms generic so that they're applicable for rcpt tunnels or any other kind of tunnels in the future because that's what they really are they are generic next slide please so the for the drop upon invalid we propose this tlv called invalidation tlv and basically just has it lets the pce to to to tell the pcc uh what to do if the if the path becomes invalid so there's basically two options either redirect the traffic towards igp which is the default or drop the traffic when the osp becomes invalid and it the steel also has a state field which kind of has similar feel a similar value of zero if it's not dropping and one if it is dropping traffic uh so just a simple tlv to encode that next slide please and there's another functionality that's uh that was from the sr policy draft where basically uh we don't want to bring up the lsp if the bcd is not available for programming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:02",
    "text": "and so to cover this we request a bit in the path by t path binding tlv um and uh this bid will be per tlv or per bc um and so if you have like multiple bcds for the same uh lsp they can have different uh values of these bits so you can see that some b saids are like mandatory and some bits or some b seeds are not mandatory so again just a simple extension uh next slide please and i got this question from [Music] privately and basically um there's this current rules is that this sr policy candidate path id tlv is mandatory in the pc initiate message um [Music] but it if you think about it really doesn't have to be mandatory uh pc could emit it and pcc could uh you know just choose the values for it because it owns uh kind of owns the policy if you will so uh we could make this tlv be optional uh in the pc init message so if the pc does not know like all the values it can just emit the tlv or yeah i made the tlv and basically the pcc will fill whatever values it chooses next slide please so there is a implementation status of cisco and juniper we both have proof of concepts with ayana code points we had successful interrupt testing with uh between cisco and juniper at the entc event next step would be to get feedback on the new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "[Music] new tlvs and we want to request iona code points for the additional tles that's all thanks hi boris gale hi mike again one question and suggestions also so question if we will have a look to 7.4 item in the draft pc initiated this our policy with multiple uh candidate perhaps item one is sounds quite quite confusing because there is no clear differentiation uh like should be uh should pc send one pce initiate message or multiple maybe would be worth to add like more clearly like may send or shoot sand or whatever uh yeah so uh i believe there's each pc initiate message could contain multiple like lsps or it could or they could arrive in different pc initiate messages i think that you know the unit of signaling in psap is is this p p osp right uh posd id so you could have multiple plsp ids in the same message uh or but that doesn't really give you anything except for save like four bytes of message header or you could send multiple pc init messages with each message containing only one plsp id yep okay and a second comment uh regarding um implementation status we recently did some uh testing with our own controller prototype and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "actually both uh you and uh i mean sister and juniper you currently support it in production version of software yeah so it's not proof of concept anymore uh yeah that's correct it's not a proof of concept uh right uh yeah maybe we should just say that then yeah okay i i have a few more questions but i will send on the list thank you actually like we use this vendor tlv um because right now there is not no yeah so that's that's what i mean that's what i mean by proof of concept it's not uh one comment that i wanted to bring like get the working group feedback on the generic mechanism uh so right now all these mechanisms uh to make it generic they are not part of the association object they are carried outside it but the main use cases for these is still sr policy so now the issue comes in that the name of the document is sr policy and we are keeping some generic mechanism so it's okay to do it it's there's not a hard and fast rule but we want to make sure that we are doing the right thing and the working group is thinking about it uh one option could be that we kind of highlight that though uh like you know this is still sr policy the main use cases are coming from the sr policy architecture the encoding is such that that they are outside the association object and maybe we add a paragraph which says that oh by the way these can be used uh pretty easily for other uh other non-sr policy cases but the main use case is still sr policy that's why they belong in this document and we don't want to put them in a separate document so some thinking i i think authors should think so that that point come across and i wanted to get the working group feedback also whether that's the right approach or not uh yeah thanks point taken uh yeah like sr policy architecture was the first to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "kind of standardize these behaviors right but they uh in fact existed even you know before sr policy so uh so that was my reasoning of why i put them in this draft but you know i'm definitely open to whatever people decide thanks mike thanks so next we have uh luke go ahead look hello everyone i'm look fabulous d4 from mtn and i'll be presenting an update on the support of the pad mtu in the pce protocol on the behalf of milk waters so next slide please so uh it is good again to recall the motivation of this uh draft uh you see uh in the traditional mpls the pattern to you could be signaled by our rsvpt and ldp but now when we come to the segment routing parts we are not yet at the additional signaling so the sr tunnel cannot currently support the negotiation mechanism for part mt and when when seats are pushed in a packet the packet will be dropped uh fragmented and forwarding since the packet size might exist the part mtu so uh from the operator point of view uh it is important that uh using these lines over multi domains the mtu should be length and to avoid drop in packets so this uh draft is to specify the extensions for uh the psep to carry the pattern to you in the messages"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "exploit please so uh in terms of history of the draft the version 2 was presented in the iitf 108 and we received comments and suggestions and with these comments were being captured in the version 3 which were a terminology session that was added to clarify the confusing terms the mtu the link mtu and the pattern to you a parent adjustment session which was also added in the case of protection such as dti lfa and we did some editorial changes now this version 3 was presented in the ietf 109 we still received where we requested abduction there were some comments that still came up that were captured in version 4 which were takes that were added to clarify the relationship with the maximum seed depth and texture was added to support the multipath as specified in the draft ita pc multipath so uh this version 5 that we have we are saying p pad m2 is very very important for network operators and we once again request a working group adoption of this of this draft so thank you thanks luke are there any questions for luke thank you luke for your presentation thanks for keeping the document up to date and handling all the comments thank you and cheers we'll discuss and we'll look out for the wiki where we will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "update our adoption queue thank you so let's move on to uh julian you want to jump in no please go on i was not to call for giuseppe okay uh joseph you are next thank you yeah hello hello yeah this is an update about the psap extension to enable uh i feed so next life yeah just a few words about background and motivation my feet refers to all that are playing on par telemetry uh c2im and alternate marking and we also include the reference to the relevant document for these methodologies so the dpsep extension they find these documents allowed to signal the feed capabilities and um we address the the initial comment and uh the effete attributes can be generalized and included as tlb uh carried in the lspa object and so this generalized this application since it can be applied to rupa types as long as of course they support the data plane telemetry meter next slide yeah the lattice changes are mainly related to the application scenario so according to rfc 8799 and also according to some discussions we had during the asg evaluation of the for example of the ultimate marketing draft in 1986 and also for ec2 rm all these on par telemetry technology suggested that can be applied in a controlled domain and according to this recondition we also improve the security sections"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "considerations to to define that ifit data must be propagated in a limited domain also always for security to address the security concerns and this also is discussing the relevant um data plane document and we also include some considerations in in this document as well so next slide yeah this is just a recap about the what's uh what is the proposal of the draft first we define a new ifit capability tlv that is an optional tlb to be used in the open object there are five flags that we have defined uh four are for iom type enabled flag so for your allocated resumption incremental resolution and so on and another flag is to enable alternate markings next slide uh in addition we define the icitatious tlv uh that provides the configurable nodes of the features and it can be included as optional in the lspa object as a as i mentioned before uh next slide yeah in in this slide we can see the detail of the subtleties for iom as i said there are four uh options for uh option sub qd for ion next yeah and this is the subtle d for alternate marquee so next is why isn't the last yeah regarding the discussion and next steps we can say that um effect methods are becoming mature also for sr mpls on the 36"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "and [Music] from this point of view this the tlv here define also complement the draft that was presented before by mike on uh pca segment routing policy cp to enable to enable lesser policy with the natives by feet but in the end this is general so this can be applicable um to all the part types when the data plane telemetry techniques is uh has been defined so we are also working on ipv6 data plane to to define the for example the alternate marquee for at least other places uh and yeah that's all so we asked the working group to consider the adoption of this work so what some questions thank you thank you any questions for giuseppe uh looking at the last uh minutes there was one comment regarding the registry for flax uh did uh did we take an action on it or did we decide not to do it uh could you update on that um no no i didn't uh i didn't take action but uh yeah to be honest i forgot but yeah it's something that we can consider yeah thank you any questions otherwise we'll move to the last presentation for today okay why mo go ahead yes can you hear me yes okay thank you hello everyone today i'm going to talk about the pc for path increase protections next page two english protection drops have been merged into one as suggested so this merger draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "provides protection ingress protections of two types of path sr pass on the blte path in addition this merger draft provide a foundation for protecting ingress nodes of different type of path next page increase protection capability sub trv is updated to include a new field which is a path type indicate indicators field so this field is to indicate the type of passes whose increased protection are supported flag set one indicates that the increased protection of sr pass is supported flag b center one indicates that the increased production of a bat path is supported next page english protection sub trv is also updated to include the pass type indicator field so this field is used to indicate the type of path whose increase is protected or is to be protected so two flags are two flags are defined here so one flag is as flag yes flag set one indicates that the increased production"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "of sr paths is going to be provided flag b set one indicates that inverse protection of bft brte pass so next page so uh what comes our webcam so in addition we would like to request for work working good work adoptions thank you any questions for whoever uh uh uh thanks for first merging the uh the two documents uh but one query that i have is uh like first first let me ask you this question what happens to rsvpt is this not re useful for rhpe uh as i mentioned as i said this one this can provide two type of protections sr pass on the blt pass so if we we wanted to extend this one to provide protections for te pass i think it's easy we just add one flag and then maybe include those tlvs for the tte pass so however what i was getting at is that i'm not able to understand why do we need to differentiate so much like we have path setup type path setup type will tell me whether it is an sr srv6 beer whatever the mechanisms would be anyway the same irrespective of what is the path setup type so i know from capability it makes some sense that oh i want to have a separate flag for each of them so that i can identify the capability but for rest"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "of the procedure what is the main point to have like you know to have different sections or different handling for each part setup type i was thinking that this could be a common generic draft and we don't have to talk too much about what happens for sr what happens for brte what happens to rsvpt the more most of the psa encoding and psep procedure remains the same so is that correct is my understanding for this correct yes you are yes you're correct uh i'm also thinking about the one indeed the details so this because this is for biker plus so for the biker pass we can use uh backup plus type because when we initiate the pass then there's some indications for that by the past time right so so that can we have enough information for the past past hype and here uh so we have uh explicitly indicate that this type i think maybe just give a emphasize so this one is okay as i mentioned that we just because we already have those past typing information it's okay it's okay for that one for the ingress protection subject we can remove that uh uh past time indicator is you're right it's okay uh thank you let's uh take the questions from the queue uh jeffrey jeffrey go ahead sorry i didn't see jeffrey here oh sorry i'm so sorry so sorry go ahead okay and i'd like to know if this draft has been discussed in spring and the beer working group uh no no because this one is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "extension for for pc in my opinion i think that we should discuss this kind of use case in a spring and a beer working group at first thanks thank you mike uh quickly four comments uh just to confirm like uh this is this requires a connection to the ce right to it requires pc to to talk to the ce device right not exactly okay maybe just kind of elaborate if you could elaborate on that like uh in the draft and uh it would be also good to know like which types of uh service overlay this uh will uh apply to like l3 vpn i assume it's not throughout to vpn [Music] yeah yes in the draft we uh we mentioned that in some cases we need a communication with ce yes you're right okay yeah so also my second comment just to mention different like overlay types that it applies to you yes yes yeah thanks mike very good comments uh who am i please uh handle there are some older comments as well on this document to just please handle all the comments that you have received in the past when you presented it thank you everyone thanks see you in the next session thank you everyone thank you bye"
  }
]
