[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:34",
    "text": "Astra creature it\u0027s like economy it yeah I know I know I\u0027m not pointing my laptop okay this is now a TS pwg meeting if this was that was not intend estimation the hallway is outside "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:43",
    "text": "[Music] okay in order to get started Nita need a note-taker and jabber scribe and I get a volunteer to audit to uh to take notes or minutes please all right who do I have to embarrass to in into helping out with with with tape with with taking taking brief notes for the minutes Magnus you want to do that all right all right let\u0027s go find somebody else to do it Stuart you take beep brief notes that\u0027s unfortunate we\u0027ll just keep trying here Ryan can I ask you to take some brief notes for the minutes mr. carpenter yeah I know that struggle I had two cups of coffee earlier well Brian was was was what was that in okay you\u0027ll try was that okay you\u0027ll try thank you and anybody want to be a UH jabbers uh I guess maybe the jabber scribe is anybody actually in the jabber room okay thank you Mary huh okay here comes Cory so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:48",
    "text": "this is this is a transfer area working group you\u0027re I\u0027m David black this is a quote Cory Fairhurst quickly scrambling up Wes Wes Wes could not be here so the two of us get get try to run things this is the first session we have an hour today followed by two hours on Friday morning this is the IAT F note the usual ITF note well please pay attention to it it applies to you including uh any comments made made in this meeting we\u0027ve got a note-taker we got jabber scribe in general folks drafts you see in the list they could use they they always use reviews and in particular this is a case scratch scratch let\u0027s help other people out if you review other people\u0027s drafts drafts you care about our more are more likely to get reviewed all right time to start doing doing something doing something usual here uh ecology conferences accomplishments and status we\u0027ve had Nora she\u0027s published since a frog but there are three in the RFC editor Q two of which are about to emerge details in cap of SCTP and the SCTP I did a chunker after both in authors forty-eight and there is work going on of any authors and I end up the to pull things out the third one the different web RTC QoS is part of WebRTC a draft tarball or hairball it\u0027s gonna be at the artsy editor for a while there\u0027s one ID in post IETF last call processing that\u0027s my ish and experimentation draft that\u0027s what happened there is we sent - oh six to the iesg - oh seven resulted from Aisha comments we wanted actually adding a fair amount of text to it in essence the most important piece of that is a summary of what other people worked with ecn need to understand about this draft how to stay out of the way of experiments uh Bob Brisco gave that a good solid review Bob and I are 80% through his comments in what that means is for four out of his five major issues are resolved plus a buncha toriel stuff there should be - oh eight appearing tomorrow with luck that I\u0027ll contain the final resolution of Bob\u0027s comments or will have when one more one more go-around on that unhex up and there are changes that have occurred since this left the working group the IES G\u0027s given us lots of review other people have as well so there are changes to the wording if you care about the detailed welding please read the latest draft we\u0027ll pull start to list before we send it on to the RFC editor right so in particular oh it will get oh it will get posted tomorrow and if we need more changes in oh nine it\u0027s not an O nine it\u0027s not a problem okay that was a first one second one we had a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:50",
    "text": "successful IETF last call on the diffserv - Wi-Fi a mapping draft that\u0027s in is evaluation I think they\u0027re going to make decision on it at the end of November and as we\u0027ll explain a bit more later and discipline the session would like to get the diffserv lower effort phb draft to work group last call fairly soon there\u0027s a crucial decision we have to make today and we\u0027ll talk about that on a minute or two there are 11 additional working group IDs you\u0027re highly paid chairs regard this as a high-water mark and so we want to move some these drafts along out working group into other people\u0027s hands before adopting any more drafts in in the working group okay note on a few related drafts there\u0027s a couple of individual submissions that will be discussed here transfer hadouken impacts today transferred header encryption impacts um is that today or is that that Friday it\u0027s on the book both these on the agenda and datagrampacket is a ssin uh EMP MTU detection one of those is today one of those is Friday I think transfer encryption is today the there\u0027s three drafts in the intern in the interior working group Colonel M few considerations a multipath library and socks protocol version 6 which is now at - oh one your interest in these please go to the interior meeting - more related drafts a party switching scheduler draft draft Finzi we\u0027re gonna we\u0027re gonna try to bash each into the minute to see if we can get a little bit time for that in this meeting and then the deterministic networks folks are starting to think about a transport layer draft Foubert draft to bear is going to despite its name is actually be discussed in the deck net meeting this week we we need to have a bunch of transfer people I show up there on unfortunate I think Det Nitin and T CPM conflict okay this is what the agenda looks like note g√ºnther note well doc compliment status when Dumas review in a minute drafts a day Friday\u0027s agenda is note well and a lot more a lot more time for drafts next thing up is milestone review and then what of the detail agenda okay milestone review so we had a bunch of drafts that we thought we would get the is U V now the end of the year those first five drafts the to any the two in orange yellow was orange and the first three in green we\u0027re not going to get all five those to ask the iesg in the next month or so Bob what\u0027s a reasonable date for sending those first two drafts about eating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:50",
    "text": "encapsulation - working group last call all right but if I\u0027ve just posted one this morning okay so he\u0027s ready now but okay CeCe so you think that drafts are a 60/40 shim Update draft is ready for completion graft is ready it\u0027s ready there we\u0027d have to not alter tirado and I just want to try and persuade Praveen one more time to alter tirado because like this is a nice window of opportunity to make a small change to something which will take a lot longer if you do it later so all right just for grins let\u0027s put January on those two if we give her earlier we go extra credit I think January I think Jan yet Ghent January sounds regional for the EC and kept the two ECM capture as one of the things I need to do do a careful review of the the overall one that\u0027s the date for working group that\u0027s called closely yes so the goal will be get Sandburg group last call Goldie\u0027s and work last call in December and go to the iesg in January well yeah it\u0027s see that as soon as they escape let\u0027s call it last last call unscathed okay it uh Michael or Randy the SCTP drafts probably here from the SCTP peep on Friday when does ictap session we\u0027ll get new milestones of those on Friday and we\u0027ve beaten ele PHP draft up enough I\u0027m going to go ahead and move that one I\u0027m gonna go ahead and move that one to January also for the same reason that I put Bob\u0027s in January okay rest the milestones probably get stay put transport options we\u0027re hoping is April the three elf for let\u0027s see the two FEC drafts in June the three l4s drafts in in September and telling Jason feedback graph right now we\u0027ve pushed out a year chairs are a little uncertain about about the few about the future that drafted needs it needs it needs to need some major revisions okay with that let me quick show the agenda as is this is agenda bashing we\u0027ve done document status to our own accomplishments next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:51",
    "text": "up will be uh it\u0027s probably I think a status update from Bob on the tuition encapsulation drafts lower effort page B draft round one follows the the goal here is we really do need to pick the dscp diffserv code point for the lower effort PHP this week so it\u0027s on the agenda twice today I think Gauri\u0027s gonna leave the discussion about making sure we understand what the problem is what considerations are and why this isn\u0027t an easy decision I\u0027m gonna try to make decision on Friday all by other transport encryption draft now we\u0027re also going to bash the agenda if time permits we\u0027d like to give draft Finzi of priorities that party scheduler draft five minutes at the end of the meeting if we get through everything else uh else before them and have five minutes to spare whoops try going forward okay on Friday SCTP drafts Alvarez drafts Laura peach B round 2 to McGee SCP selection to effect frame drafts and then the the UH datagram p.m. to UD draft and if you\u0027re an ICC RG you heard this draft on six-man draft mentioned it\u0027s actually going to get discussed here Friday okay aside from the change to do try to fit in some fit in these the fins draft Finzi scheduler draft into this end of this session any other agenda Bash requests hearing none consider the agenda bashed Bob your slides you or you just want to talk um yeah there might meal somewhere I have no idea okay by URL not by an attachment do you have a fucking puppy lady look what ya came up your lap oh yeah I think we\u0027re gonna I think we\u0027re gonna play musical laptops here yes yes like yes I\u0027m gonna eat you mine now this is Bob spanking new laptop which is going to work brilliantly and will not love the sights the proceedings as Bob gives the top and we can we can facilitate the pressing your buttons "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:54",
    "text": "yeah [Music] [Music] [Music] right okay so as I said just posted updated it this this morning next couple of recap slides that are there mainly for those that are not used to what goes on here so I\u0027ll very quickly go over these essentially there are two problems first is that a RFC of on tunneling of ACN didn\u0027t quite specify its scope precisely enough and so there was ambiguity weather protocols that have a shim between two IP headers were included in its scope second next sorry second problem was that it didn\u0027t address a problem where a tunnel endpoint that wasn\u0027t even trying to implement a cien tunneling still had to set the outer ACN to something because there\u0027s two bits that you\u0027ve got to put something in them and there\u0027s only one safe way of doing that if if you don\u0027t know what the other end is going to do with them which is to zero them so next those two parts of the problem did a survey of how they deal with how various RFC\u0027s deal with those two things but that do easily in tunneling with a shim between them and the more you look the more of these you find this is only those that are standards track or widely deployed and there\u0027s a lot more that a not standards track or not widely deployed and there\u0027s quite a lot of standards track that aren\u0027t widely deployed as well anyway no whoa I\u0027m going to stay on this one for quite a while the radar ones are the ones that have updated this cycle or I\u0027ve added this cycle and the reason I\u0027m saying let\u0027s stop and do working group last call on this is I think this process is a bit one that has a halting problem in that it will never hold and so the the main problem that the two problems I just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:54",
    "text": "talked about are both related to in that double column the sort of second and third from the right safe configuration is this question of is it is it can it be safely configured when it\u0027s not even trying to implement ACN and the other one is to update the protocol themselves and so since the last meeting dealt with or at least added all these mobile IP protocols that use GRE as an encapsulation there they\u0027re effectively the control protocol and you need to know what the control protocol is because that determines the checking of the other end to check that it can support ecn before it puts ecn into the outer at the ingress because if it puts ecn into the outer at the ingress and the a egress doesn\u0027t understand ecn at all it\u0027ll just all fall on the floor and you get you get bad things happen then I mentioned tirado last time there\u0027s a little Red Cross there just say I would have liked to put the put a change the protocol in this RFC which is what or in this draft that to become an RFC which is what this draft is for and I will try one more time to get that done before we go to working great last call and the other one J Collins helped me a lot with AMT and we\u0027ve put up an update into the protocol and he\u0027s he\u0027s gonna be implementing that then there was UDP tunneling generally had missed out that rather important in important one but there\u0027s already an RFC that covers that and there was a really quite niche one with using TCP as an in Capulet encapsulation for I can hip set which has or at least now has good text in it and gone to RFC so next okay so dress proximation that slide is sort of a a high-pass filter on what what what is worth doing which is what you\u0027re about to explain yeah well yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s I mean that that\u0027s the sort of initial grab of what what it the what there is to do but then this explains why there\u0027s still some crosses in the column that says where the where the protocol needs to be updated and why it hasn\u0027t been and that\u0027s largely based on human interaction you know where first of all you\u0027ve got to find someone who maintains that protocol I don\u0027t want to go changing an RFC when I don\u0027t really understand the protocol and the implications of changing it and then the you know if we get past those two points I proposed a fix and like with Jake it gets fixed and we\u0027re done did the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:55",
    "text": "with l2tp but in some other cases like the mobile IP ones I get the feeling that it would be an academic exercise it wouldn\u0027t really yeah we might change the RSC\u0027s but it\u0027s not going to change anything in in real life so I\u0027m it seem to be the energy there to do it so I\u0027m you know am I bothered this is likely one of those keys where IETF flash called helpful edge the other protocols you haven\u0027t thought about will come out of the woodwork then and we can figure out what to do with them well that\u0027s why I\u0027d rather it went earlier than then yeah okay we\u0027ll move it yeah right okay so the specific ones have been updated this time around with certainly we\u0027ve updated them all anyway by putting a safety the safety flaws in them but we haven\u0027t actually updated the protocol unless we got someone interested so and the reason for putting the safety protocol in them all or at least the safety guidance in is that it puts and updates by flag on their RFC so at least people know that there\u0027s there\u0027s something to do there and you know the bit which is going to check for at least the iesg and probably earlier to make sure that anytime you update an RFC somebody who cares about exactly RFC can quickly find exactly what you changed yeah yep right so as I said AMT have now fixed that that was quite an easy one because they see it\u0027s a unidirectional protocol so it just needed a one bit flag coming from one end of the tunnel to tell the other end whether or not it would be capsule ATC and correctly and that\u0027s being done or at least been written Jerry put the safety clause in but not dealt with any of the control protocols and three Grand Valley in EE has been helping me with that but I detect he won\u0027t want to go any further with that next so as I said provision posted this morning the original milestone so yep already but I\u0027d quite like to get to Rado done at least cuz I think that\u0027s important to get done okay so is this ready for working group Lashkar it\u0027s the drafts as it stands is ready now yes all right I I want I want to give it a sanity check read before I sent working class call but yeah I think any getting it to Andrew last call before the end at the end of November is reasonable yeah regarding your question on whether it\u0027s changing other you know making a load of other RFC\u0027s non-compliant that\u0027s deliberately not the case the safety thing I\u0027ve not said anything must about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:55",
    "text": "implementations I\u0027ve made it a must for operators to configure things correctly so that it\u0027s it\u0027s not and then there I\u0027ll take I\u0027ll take I\u0027ll take I\u0027ll take that take a look what do you sanity check yeah man okay while we\u0027re on that and you\u0027re the working group last call question would be is anybody willing to put their name forward now to read this and give us a review when we come to call it you don\u0027t have to do this today you can promise in the future [Music] else quite like someone from interior yep great yeah and of course and it might be with you Bob preparing a list of people who have confused in some way that I totally will make sure that that goes to the relevant area saying please get be good yeah yeah I can give you that listener also both coroner I\u0027ve checked your emails we can\u0027t find your slides please send them again okay any any questions for Bob all right I think we\u0027re done all right next up is round one of LEP HB [Music] hi I\u0027m going to talk about the le PHB and as a chair so I\u0027ll come over here to make running the slides a little bit easier and Roland\u0027s in the room if we have questions on the draft but this isn\u0027t really about questions on the draft at the moment what I\u0027m going to do is try and just take through the discussion about the Ayana registry and the choice of code point um well I don\u0027t need that big that\u0027s ridiculously huge my slides are in the Proceedings and there\u0027s just a few slides the first ones in there with the draft which is on the site okay okay right I will continue the the draft primarily concerns allocation of a code point to support lower effort traffic and draft IETF TS v WG le p HB "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:56",
    "text": "and next slide okay and the world as currently stands has tried to use CS 1 and to define a code point that can be used for sending traffic that\u0027s got a lower effort requirement than best effort so this is basically scavenger class and software update and background download whatever you want to call it however this RFC doesn\u0027t actually allocate that called point and that code point has some known problems it has known problems when you try and do other things with diffserv because it doesn\u0027t really fit in particularly the first few bits of the value 0 0 1 which we really don\u0027t want to have if you want to follow that discussion either come to the mic or loop back in the proceedings to the last IETF where we discussed all this so this is the place we\u0027re trying to get away from this is the current I on a registry and the current I on the registry and has many items in there which are being used many of which are deployed in networks and these are the well-known dscp s the only active pill currently in the IANA registries pill one and the proposal are stated in Roland\u0027s draft and proposed to the working group in Prague was we could use dscp to the SCP 2 has the nice feature that the first three bits are all 0 which was one of the requirements for the work and on the last 2 bit last 3 bits are 0 at 1 0 and seemingly that was ok apart from a issue with the idea that we\u0027re trying to define a Laura effort PHP that can be deployed across the internet and so if we go to the next slide and the problem is some people out there who operate networks and configure Reuters and buy equipment don\u0027t actually change their configurations and their operational procedures every time the ITF tells them to amazingly there are people out there who are still using the toss precedence fields as the way of dealing with the diffserv code point which means that they\u0027re it if I set there which bleached the top three bits of a dscp a market back to being zero zero zero and this is reasonably common practice among a small number of people doing it but you might in a particular survey find five percent twenty percent of packets remarked this way now if this were just a issue within your own domain that might not be in it might not really be a problem because you can define and use CS 1 as the US did with internet - I mean that worked however if we want to define something that works end to end and I think that\u0027s the main purpose of things in TS vwg we want to value that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:56",
    "text": "doesn\u0027t have a problem when there are mappings by real equipment now there this is particularly insidious because what happens with the toss precedence bleaching action is that other traffic gets back to the core point that we\u0027d propose to use for a lower effort service and it happens to be part of the AF class and unfortunately F as well so it really makes messes up the whole diffserv domain if you start then using dscp - for le traffic so let\u0027s move on we talked about this and I\u0027ll give you an option because the option is the thing that we should be talking about whether we want to do it or not we sport - Ayanna we have another registry pool we\u0027ve currently only ever allocated from registry pool one it\u0027s reserved for standards action registry pool two is reserved for experimental or lawful use and we\u0027ve got reason to believe operators they\u0027ve used these code points they\u0027re assigned for them we expectancy we continue to be assigned for them but then there is pool three who three to our knowledge has not be used for anything or standardized in any way i under controls the registry there are no registry entries the pool is currently being used for whatever purpose out there and we assume that that purpose can change because the registry is marked for future standard action allocations are necessary as necessary could be because we ready to pull one allocations but we\u0027d be willing if this group thinks it\u0027s the right thing to do to ask for Ayane to open up that registry and start that process so we can allocate a cold point that has the top three bits set to zero but also has the bottom three bits set to a value that doesn\u0027t have those mysterious effects that were discussed in Prague and we have to have a choice here between DHCP one and DHCP five I think I think the suggestion of slide is DHCP one yeah both one on five would meet the criteria if anyone knows any good reason why one shouldn\u0027t be used but five should be then it would be good to know if anyone has opinions it would be really good to know if anyone wants to comment in some way that would be good if you want to go and think that would be good but somehow out of this procedure we\u0027re going to have to start asking our lovely earlier director and Ayane to do something if the work wants to open up this new registry did that cover it David or do you want to ask me questions I think that covered it as I said earlier the goal of this time period this this timeslot agenda was not so much to make the decision but to tee up what we\u0027re looking at and why we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:58",
    "text": "looking at it which is what goriias described me if dhcp two had been satisfactory cross the board we\u0027d have probably uh had this draft of at the RFC editor before prog it\u0027s not there there have been of measurements reported that that the do show that that this precedence bleaching occurs as somebody work on diffserv I was annoyed at dscp bleaching lead bleats all six bits now that now looks like a feature by comparison only bleaching the first three any questions or comments on this we have to take them in the hallway afterwards or during the week the goal is to the goal is to make a decision on this on Friday and in fact one of the sort of a nefarious agenda manipulations going on here is we\u0027re going to tea the pie shop today and make a decision on Fridays people kind of think about it mr. carpenter sir the note-taker has a question burn carpenter is the mic on yes it is okay because there\u0027s not much feedback right here at just an observation that the one of the characteristics have pulled three is it is defined as four local or experimental use so we actually don\u0027t know if there is another category if operators who are using it for something because they\u0027re not obliged to tell anybody so it\u0027s another thing to think about when thinking about opening up this pool and yes please think about that and one of the things we might not know that if not wrote has been using it they may also understand how to remark diffserv code points and if they understand how to do that they may then just bleach this traffic back to zero which actually is not a disastrous outcome what we don\u0027t want to do is end up with traffic allocated to the core point by accident so bleaching al-jazeera would be okay and if that\u0027s what the operator action is that\u0027d be alright as well and we really need people to think about this Bob but Briscoe why do you say bleaching to zero is okay for most of it and because the basic community the way in which disturbs being defined allows things to be effectively remarked to zero yeah and there\u0027s some on the assumption that that will reduce their their priority over the other traffic B in this case it will increase it okay and I think the RFC has written by Roland and the RSC to be hopefully and as written by Roland would would you have text in there that says that you should have a led back type or scavenger type transport running over this so that even if you share with a bleach core point you\u0027re okay they\u0027re not desirable but okay what we don\u0027t want is the priority inversion where somebody\u0027s AF class part of it gets mapped to this and much as it might be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "nice in principle to discard this on entry to domain it doesn\u0027t understand it the network does not need help from us in thinking you black holes and remark at Google we have a situation where we have a list than based if it code point allocated for our internal mappings and there are many parts of the network where that code point and the default code point sherek you and many parts where they do not and the solution of using a less than beasty for transport as well works just fine okay with that I think we move on to the transport encryption directory where\u0027s Colin presenting okay slides posted slides are posted and I presented something and to try and tease people into reading this at the ops security group and we got feedback so and that was in this session prior to this and you can talk about your slides and then we\u0027ll ask question okay so is this working can you hear me yeah all right like this maybe okay good hi I\u0027m Colin Perkins I\u0027m going to talk about the impacts of Transport had a encryption on the operation and evolution of the Internet so what we\u0027re seeing is increasing fractions of the transport headers being encrypted and this is reducing the visibility of the the various transport header fields right the sequence numbers the acknowledgement numbers the window the flags in TCP for example for example are not visible in quick maybe this is better yes okay good so quick as an example of this we\u0027re seeing transport protocols making the choice to encrypt more of the headers and it\u0027s not just quick it\u0027s it\u0027s a bunch of things but quic is perhaps the the most active of them right now and in principle we could encrypt everything above the IP header in the port although so far no one has gone all of it gone quite that far next slide so there\u0027s obviously a bunch of good reasons for doing this a number of benefits people have mentioned it reduces the information leakage from the transport layer which it makes it harder to infer the connection progress it makes it harder to infer things like the round-trip time the timing variation and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:00",
    "text": "it prevents some spoofing in injection attacks and just generally enhances the privacy of the connection enhances privacy of the transports equally by encrypting you stop the middleboxes looking at the packets and and that prevents the middleboxes sort of ossifying around a particular transfer and gives you flexibility to change the transport protocol all these are good things and they\u0027ve all been widely reported what has perhaps been less widely discussed is that there are some costs of us as well there are costs in that by encrypting all of the transport headers or a significant portion of the transport headers we also complicate the the network operations to some extent and we complicate the process of specifying protocols and doing research and developments or new protocols so in terms of network operations obviously if if the transport headers are observable this lets the network operators analyze the performance of their network it lets them look at the behavior of the flows going through the network detect anomalies check to see that you know and get some understanding of that the mix of traffic in there informs their traffic engineering their capacity planning and so on and this gives them a sort of overall I guess passive view of the health of their network as a whole it lets operate to see what\u0027s going on let\u0027s see if the network is behaving as they expect because they can do broad high-level metrics for the understanding of the whole network across a range of flows and they can spot when for example the latency spikes or packet loss starts happening by looking at the sequence numbers looking at the round-trip times inside and this you know I\u0027m not an operator but but from talking to the operators I\u0027m told that this is important to to at least some of the operators and if the headers the transport had to start being encrypted these operators are going to have to develop workarounds and some of that might be a statistical classification of the flows some of it might be active traffic probing in places passive analysis and some of it might be just encapsulating all the data inside some sort of ship lair which replaces the head as we\u0027ve encrypted at the transport but people people need this information people can try and work around it if the the headers are encrypted in addition when it comes to debugging I mean rather than thinking of the health of the overall health of the network we also have to think about debugging particular problems with particular customers networks for example and operators have the problem is they can\u0027t observe the transport behavior it\u0027s very difficult to debug what\u0027s going on right you know if the the headers are encrypted then a flow which is being subjects packet loss for example is indistinguishable from any other flow because you can\u0027t see the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "sequence numbers and tell that there is packet loss happening so in a world where well significant proportion of the transport headers are encrypted debugging gets difficult maybe we have to do active probes and run the risk that the active probe doesn\u0027t have the same characteristics as the traffic the user was happening well it was using and so it behaves differently maybe it\u0027s more intrusive it might may give you different answers or maybe you have to get the information from the endpoints but at the endpoint thinks the connection is doing after it\u0027s decrypted that information and the question then is do you trust that endpoint to be doing it correctly right and sure most of the time the endpoint will not be lying to the operator that you don\u0027t know that and you can\u0027t tell for sure unless you can see the transport headers okay traffic analysis obviously if you you can\u0027t do traffic analysis if you can\u0027t see the traffic you\u0027re analyzing and I guess perhaps a sort of more philosophical point if you encrypt the transport headers the operators and people doing research on network protocols can\u0027t tell if the transports are behaving as they\u0027re expected and we\u0027re sort of losing the information we need to inform future developments to inform future standardization because we don\u0027t know if the network is behaving if the transport is behaving as we believe it is and we\u0027ve seen a number of presentations earlier in mataji and I see Gogi for example about problems with existing transports and that these things happen all the time and people can spot it because they can do measurements they can analyze how the transpose behaving and this is a sort of similar point when we consulted specifying the protocols when we come to thinking about the future interactions between different versions of the protocol between protocols we need to be able to see what\u0027s going on and yes you can build a testbed and you can set up a test bed that decrypts everything and logs the right information and you can start to understand future interactions that way but to some extent you have to do this in a while to really understand the full range of behaviors that you see in the real network because when you put things out there on the real network you find some weird pathology that no one had thought of again that\u0027s difficult if the headers are encrypted a final point and it relates to the way we build standards clearly being able to innovate faster is a good thing we want to be able to change the transport protocols we want to have a network which isn\u0027t ossified on let\u0027s exchange rings however we also need to avoid the problem where people build point solutions which don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:00",
    "text": "get much review work in the particular scenario they care about but fail when deployed in other environments of a other parts of the network because they\u0027re not robust because they haven\u0027t seen wide review because they have known what should be known problems which weren\u0027t spotted because the community couldn\u0027t review them right TCP works well because it\u0027s had 25-30 years whatever it is of open development and people looking at it and spotting the problems and proposing changes once we have pervasive encryption once we have protocols that no one can see how they\u0027re behaving apart from the end of the people building the endpoints we lose some of those checks and balances because the community can\u0027t observe what\u0027s happening with the traffic can\u0027t push back and say that doesn\u0027t work right and that\u0027s a problem for the long-term health I think of the network and for the lights on health of the ITTF because it\u0027s reducing the sort of desire to work together to build the standards because no one can see what\u0027s being deployed so we\u0027re not against transport level encryption encrypting the transport headers there are clearly some important benefits from doing this I think what as perhaps been slightly lost though is that there also costs it has costs in terms of operations it\u0027s got costs in terms of how we deploy protocols and how we build standards and how we do R\u0026D on protocols and we need to seek a balance we need to make sure that we\u0027re not obstructing real needs which will just force people to deploy workarounds that that take away the privacy benefits are encrypting it anyway if they do that then there was no point in encrypting that information so we\u0027d like this to be considered as a working group item we\u0027d like this to be considered as a working group item so we can get some discussion of these issues going right as I say we\u0027re not trying to say don\u0027t encrypt the transport headers we\u0027re trying to say think about what is encrypted think about the stakeholders here and make sure that when you encrypt things the privacy benefits outweigh the costs in terms of operations are in these tenders developments and potentially privacy because people deploy more invasive monitoring mechanisms thank you questions questions comments hello Lars I got a chair quick on and this is obviously going to be a Transfer Protocol that encrypts or or has intended to encrypt as much as possible and there\u0027s an ongoing discussion there also on so I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "wondering whether you think this document has anything to do with quick I can\u0027t hear you very well but Joyce oh sorry quick Lars I get Jeff quick um does this document have a relation to quick I think quick should be paying attention to some of these issues do you think the if this is adopted and there\u0027s consensus for these things in here and this consensus is different than the consensus of the quick working group what should we do so I\u0027m asking specifically because for those of you are not in quick right there\u0027s a discussion on whether um quick should expose some limited amount of information about its operations such as the RTT it\u0027s seeing um in the clear whether that clear text is authenticated or not is up for discussion but but it would basically be observable but not necessarily changeable by the path so that\u0027s a piece of information that that sort of would restore some visibility into what Creek is doing that otherwise wouldn\u0027t be there and there\u0027s an ongoing discussion that we\u0027re gonna have on well we had a design team to figure out whether the operator community felt that there was a need for um having this sort of information available and and spoiler alert the design team is gonna report on Wednesday that they didn\u0027t have consensus on an outcome so there\u0027s going to be discussion is on Wednesday um this seems to be an important discussion to have however quick is on an extremely tight schedule yes and we cannot wait for the transport area at its usual pace to answer this question in five years Jovie do i I think quick is on a very accelerated schedule which is perhaps not taking input as broadly as it might now what the chairs and area directors decide to do I mean I think the IETF needs to have a discussion and come to a consensus on that speaking what happened was quick I will let the chairs figure it out speaking as the uninvolved chair was in the room I certainly understand largest process concern which is in particular if quick has these issues quick probably ought to be the first worked example and using TS vwg to end run quick and try to tell quick what to do doesn\u0027t tend to end well so I think I\u0027d like to avoid that basically suggest that step one is to focus attention on on these on these issues and quick and see where that goes I mean that this draft doesn\u0027t propose an outcome it says "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:03",
    "text": "we need to have the discussion just to clarify right so I\u0027m not concerned that that this will be an end run to force a certain outcome I\u0027m concerned that quick will be blocked while nothing happens on this discussion right so um we pushed the milestone for quick out by six months and we\u0027ve gotten an incredible amount of feedback from large implementers that this is very problematic and they really want a shift next year and that they so the argument that\u0027s been made and I\u0027m not saying that this is the you know it\u0027s true but it\u0027s been made several times is that um IETF quick getting delayed means that proprietary quick we\u0027ll see more deployment which is you know not necessarily a bad thing but it\u0027s not necessarily outcome that the ITF would want to see and and so they that\u0027s why there is a clock here but the in feedback from operators that that is a problem so in you to make a point the danger I see is not the end run the danger is the UM you can\u0027t put a quick RFC out while you know we don\u0027t have an answer here that\u0027s good let\u0027s get the ad done like this mr. Dawkins is a responsible area director just so the next three people in line don\u0027t have to guess what I might be getting ready to say Spencer Spencer\u0027s opinion about this is that this thing is targeting informational and that it seems insane to hold up a working group on the outcome or the output of the informational draft in another working group I\u0027m not saying that that\u0027s never happened in the IETF but it shouldn\u0027t happen here it seems like to me so I guess my question is what what is the intended argument for the intended audience for this if it\u0027s not if it turns out to not be quick and people don\u0027t have to answer that question right now but I hope people would think about it I think that this is brilliant I wish we\u0027ve been working on it all along but you know where we are where we are so I\u0027d like I\u0027d like to make sure that if the brainpower that goes into this because the people who work on it are smart if the brainpower that goes into this is useful you know that has it out but they could be used someplace that that\u0027s I think the responses you know I think that\u0027s the the responsibility of the director to make sure that that happens "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "hi Brian Trammell let me first say so as an editor of a quick document that actually tries to address a lot of the concerns that are in this document with a quick specific viewpoint I one I really support having this document is a separate document is a general sort of principles of these Raviv these are the things focus directly on the transport layer so this is not the only document that is being discussed in the IETF right now that touches the same issue we\u0027re kind of as an organization spinning our wheels on it and I think that this approach to it by looking specifically at a narrower impact on more or less the people in this room is one possible way to maybe get a little bit further down the pike as one of the editors of the manageability draft in quick I think we regardless of what happens with this draft here I would support its adoption here on bringing it into the working group regardless if its status here I think we need to sync up and and make sure that the insights here get into the management draft and so there are I\u0027m sure there\u0027s a thorough there\u0027s a whole list of other drafts that touch on various other aspects of this and I\u0027m assuming that you\u0027ve you\u0027ve at least skimmed all of them and that you\u0027ve taken the you\u0027ve taken two things from those that are relevant and you\u0027ve ignored the things from those that are not relevant I believe so although I\u0027m sure we\u0027ve missed something okay cool so Gauri coming over this side of the room and tried to sound a sensible volume level and yeah we\u0027ve looked at many but if you know of more that\u0027s always good one thing in particular is the one that Morton and Catherine Moriarty is in IES is in IETF last call at the moment and that looks at operational viewpoints of various stories things that are going on in the operations world so if people aren\u0027t just in this subject that\u0027s definitely want to make comment on the ITF listen to reiterate I think that this is this is absolutely the right way to try and tackle this problem is to try and bring it in here and I hope you got it Fleming Andreasen so first of all thank you for doing this work I very much agree with the message that you\u0027re trying to send here which is that we need more balance in this debate we all understand the privacy and security issues and we agree that they need to be addressed but it seems like we\u0027ve moved a little bit too far in that direction and and we\u0027re not adequately taking into consideration what are the implications of that so I am very supportive of both the message and the the intent here so I would like to see this work move forward I think some good questions have been brought up in terms of more concretely what does that mean but I think for starters if we can get on a page where everybody recognizes that these issues "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:04",
    "text": "need to be addressed as well then at least we\u0027re off to a good start because the debate tends to go too much in one direction right now in my experience at least could you share your name again a little more slowly and clearly for the mid takers to grab it Fleming andraia isn\u0027t or any Evan I think I support this document I think it\u0027s important because currently there is a BCP 101 that says that network might even though security is the important I mean network need to be manageable but it doesn\u0027t say what it means to be manageable I think this thing says what is needed in order for the network to be managed and that\u0027s why I think it\u0027s important because it\u0027s its complement this IB document and I think that should be considered for every transport that we are doing now and again name a little more slow indistinctly for the minute acres please I apologize Maroney Evan running Thank You Julie um so I\u0027m largely sympathetic to the vantage point we\u0027re in systems need to be protected from meddling of middleboxes the network itself and the depredations of outside observation one of the problems I also have of course is that I actually have to protect endpoints in ways that are sufficiently scaleable that they don\u0027t have to get wiped off the map by large collections of devices that may or may not wish to reveal their intentions before sending me a packet but I think one of the things that is sort of poorly explored in our understanding of why people want visibility or or control in in transports is the question of um the integrity of the material that\u0027s within them um so some of the biggest problems we have or when people design middle boxes that manipulate the stuff without necessarily disclosing that they\u0027re doing that and I think that actually is because for things where we wanted to provide visibility we didn\u0027t provide enough protection for integrity where that was actually a required feature as well so for example that translators are enabled by the fact that you can manipulate the source ports or destination ports for that matter without without any significant effort "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:06",
    "text": "like encapsulation for example you can simply rewrite the packet because those things are not protected in any cryptographically significant way I\u0027d still like to know what a flow is that doesn\u0027t mean that I necessarily want middleboxes to be able to change change elements of that and I think integrity protection particularly cryptographic integrity protection is an important component of allowing for visibility because that way if I have to expose it certain information from a network management vantage point I still know that it hasn\u0027t progressed at this point so and and I think that as actually a place that sort of poorly explored yes I very much agree that we we\u0027ve we\u0027ve not really explored that part of the space very well very much so I said not not to begin at Scripture this time um and following up to a Joel set so integrity protection is certainly it\u0027s not controversial really I think that we should call it a beauty protection is and I think not controversial um and so Fleming painted the picture that this is your privacy versus operations it\u0027s actually not or not only right privacy certainly one one aspect but there\u0027s also the aspect of even if your integrity protect transport level information middle boxes are going to ossify around what they see and we want to be able to change that and we can\u0027t if it\u0027s in the clear because stuff will be shipped that things this field is always this and and if it\u0027s not anymore it\u0027ll go wrong that\u0027s the harder problem attracted well it\u0027s also a hard problem privacy I don\u0027t understand very deeply so I\u0027m not going to comment on it but but it once you expose it right it is actually gonna be used and when we wrote a new version of quick we\u0027re gonna be rolling them frequently and we\u0027re gonna dip those bits or can I have something else in them you know um the middle boxes are not necessarily gonna know what to do with that for very long either you\u0027re gonna update them you know a lot or you\u0027re gonna have a little box that\u0027s not very useful and be doing this because what we found with TCP or is that there is enough old crap out there that actually breaks TCP it makes it slower these days right so v6 is faster than before mostly because there\u0027s not so much crap in the path and and encrypting everything is a way to not allow crap to have anything to grab on and and that\u0027s an argument I think that resonates with you personally and I would love to hear from operators that come and say when are we doing this we have a very limited need for a piece of information this is something that you know is is has consensus to be good to expose were helpful to expose I personally haven\u0027t really seen it yet but that those sorts of things are interesting because otherwise you know the I fully subscribes you a point right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:07",
    "text": "I have a research hat that I occasionally use for stuff and it\u0027s nice to be able to see stuff and measure stuff and it helps us learn things about the network um but that same information makes the network ossify yes and I think the the trade-off which is perhaps not as widely discussed as it should be is where the ossification is a good thing or a bad thing and in some ways it\u0027s clearly a bad thing because it stops us changing things in other ways it\u0027s a good thing because it stops us changing things and it means we have been successful and the stuff is out there and being used and people are building on it okay so we need to decide carefully what we expose and what we allowed to be ossified and what we allowed to change we haven\u0027t thought that very very quickly mark Townsley from Cisco um I think that the current current cat-and-mouse game between the endpoints and the network elements in points hide from the network elements and network elements do more and more things to discover the end points even if everything\u0027s encrypted will you know will analyze the flows apply a signature databases machine learning you name it to figure out what\u0027s going on there because our operators or customers demand it right so this is a race to the bottom if we can step back and with some very thoughtful analysis and just as importantly understanding and sort of trust in terms of what can be exposed to make things better it can stop that so I fully respect Larson\u0027s point here but don\u0027t think that the only way sorry sorry mark speaker on the strap okay don\u0027t think that the the only way you can ossify protocol with network elements is through clear text so it\u0027s back stop the race to the bottom and try to figure out you know the the right way to expose the data for the right things and I know that\u0027s hard but if we can\u0027t do it who else can I think we run the risk of having some very obscure statistical machine learning classifiers our sister network and I\u0027m not sure I want to go there we may be it may be unavoidable ok ok where are the blue sheets and raise your hand if you haven\u0027t signed the blue sheets I think we\u0027ll have them up front afterwards all right at this point I think we are now well over time so we\u0027re not going to get to the the priority scheduling draft we\u0027ll see everybody on on Friday "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:15",
    "text": "Oh far enough over I mean we started five lately we\u0027ve been leaking our body [Music] you "
  }
]