[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:03",
    "text": "I don't know how it identified me on some of them because I didn't introduce myself because why would I do that? It didn't think someone who had jumped on the mic as the post who was in queue, and it was quite funny funny It's time. Take a seat all mine I never liked you anyway or the record Welcome everybody to the very first Spice Working Group meeting How many of you have actually participated in the Boffs? Ooh, how many of you this is all like brand new stuff? All right we've, we've hopefully have you covered, but there will be a little bit of a learning curve. Okay. As always by now, you should have read this many, many times, embraced it, loved it put it on a post-it note for you to remember always. Note the note well A couple IETF meeting tips If you're here, you know, I've been to many working group meetings this week, and every single one had at least jon peterson phone ring. So, um, please join in Please put your phones on mute Sign in on the Datatracker. If you are remote, please keep your audio and video off. All the usual hygiene for four meetings um in our agenda so the way we're working today is, of course, we have an hour and then there's a break and then there's a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "another hour we've got a fair amount of time to get through everything. If we end early, I don't think that's going to break anybody's heart, but we'll fair amount of time to get through everything. If we end early, I don't think that's going to break anybody's heart. But we will see how it goes. We're not promising, because as soon as you promise, that, the meeting runs long. I've learned that to be true okay so we're going to start with well what is spice? Now, if you participated in the box, you have probably read the charter I mean, we are focused on digital credentials and their presentation. This, I want to emphasize, this covers both human and non-human use cases. That's part of why I wanted to be chair for this because I find that space overlapping to be fascinating because they're sometimes different ultimate requirements and sometimes not. So it's a very chewy problem And we're going to be developing digital credential profiles for, for various use cases that were, that, uh, and we're actually going to talk about those use cases in a little bit We do have security and privacy as part of what we're doing that must be considered And sometimes in considering it, it will be like this is a very critical, important thing. And sometimes we're going to say this doesn't apply for this use case, and that's going to be okay so something to think about considerations will include issues around confidential compliance remote attestation trusted environments etc And I believe I see someone in queue Now I have to figure out what button to push Okay Hi, brian campbell You mentioned the charter. I was a participant Can you speak up? How's this? Sorry, I'm feeling a little cheeky right now, but I was a participant, my name is brian campbell. I work for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Ping Identity. I'm here representing myself, I think because that's how this works, but I can never quite keep track I was a participant in the Boff Circa Brisbane at the last time, which as my memory serves was quite contentious. There were a number of suggested changes to the text around which there seemed to be something of approaching the rough consensus of the room your co-chair there, hi Martin submitted PRs to the then charter tech in the, in whatever repo it was Anyway, that stuff was sort of ignored and things proceeded on with the charter and it was voted on and so forth. And I raised the question a few times I'm not really invested that much in it although one of them, I actually made a PR suggestion to you that Martin was better and over read it. It doesn't matter, but it seems like there were a number of processing type things that were just sort of discarded. And in the interest of just sort of, I don't know the time and effort that wen lin process-y type things that were just sort of discarded. And in the interest of just sort of, I don't know, the time and effort that went into that meeting, people left, like, all fired up and it was almost like it didn't happen and as a someone who traveled halfway around the world or more to be a part of that it's a little bit disconcerting and be involved in some other things like this here i am i wasn't going to say anything but I got a little far back. But you have questions, understood Do you want to take? concerns, maybe would be better Uh-huh, right. Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. Thank you I recognize your concerns, which I will say summarize as there were a bunch of open PRs against the charter that did not appear to be merged And the question is more towards the area director as to the process for what the charter is versus"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "what's in those PRs and how that's all supposed to come together Sorry, Paul Vauta's idea. I just walked in, so I might have met some previous discussions sorry about that. If the working group thinks that there is some and they agree on a few changes, to the charter, then we can just do a quick recharter to fix that. That's not a problem for me So maybe what we can do here is we can take Brian's comment here as an agenda bash. I'll try to put some fix that. That's not a problem for me. So maybe what we can do here is we can take Brian's comment here as an agenda bash. I'll try to put something together toward the end of this session and we can talk about those changes to the charter. And see if we can come up with a quick revision Would that be acceptable to you? Consider it bash yes. Although frankly I'm more concerned about the process that got us here without them than the actual changes themselves. So maybe I've been heard, and that's good enough. I think probably we can have a short conversation after this or during the break time with the folks involved there and see what happened. Thank you. I don't think we need to spend working group time on that. You're right, thank you Thanks One of the things that did, you know, in the charter as it currently stands, is coordination with a bunch of different working groups. So I had a chance to go to Skit, to Wimsy, to Oath I know we've got folks involved in rats and Jose and Coz and that's just as well because Spice has been mentioned in all of them this week as an area of interest. So expect a lot of coordination across several different working groups There's a couple things that are out of scope, specifically general key discovery, and we are not trying to create new cryptographic print primitives. Full stop Don't do that Okay, we do have obviously we have a mailing list we do also do have a GitHub repository. That repository will be for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "drafts that have been adopted by the working group. It's not, I mean, it's not going to be just like open to any and all things. I want to keep that forth things that we've actually agreed to adopt. So that is there. It's currently empty, but it's there, and that's what we'll start using yeah so this might be good old these things terrible it might be a good opportunity to have a brief discussion about how we expect to work I'd like input as to whether or not people feel comfortable with the idea that we could have substantive discussion on GitHub or whether people would prefer to have the substantive discussion on the mailing list. And that I realize can be controversial So ultimately, the chairs are just looking for your input and I think we'll probably have to make it decision based on that input but keep this brief. Mike, I personally like major decisions like adoption et cetera, done on the list per normal process However, when iterating on drafts and tracking issues, GitHub is a wonderful place because it keeps the list from having code that sometimes can't be read depending on someone's mail clients and how they cut and pasted or whatever. So strong preference to GitHub for normal working actions brent zundel, GitHub, please All right, orie steele, I love confirming things on the list, also like poll requests and discussion and issue charges on GitHub So, but I leave it to chairs and ladies to sort of all this out Hi, this is Hankis, a potential contributor GitHub is great for the daily work It's not so great for bigger decisions making. So we have this bot thing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "that could do a weekly summary of things that move on GitHub. I think that's something that can be added when there's a first row repository. And then I think chairs and other contributors can highlight stuff also interims might be a thing, but GitHub first and the mail list is for the real discussion So what I'm hearing here is that there's general desire to get the nuts and bolts done in GitHub, and that's great. We will probably ask the editors of any document Oh, sorry, Q. Q Mike. Keep my soul, MP-I-N, keep the code and boring technical discussion on GitHub Keep the substantive discussion on the mailing list. I'm not going to look at GitHub as often as I look at the mailing list Hi, Fleming the substantive discussion on the mailing list. I'm not gonna look at GitHub as often as I look at the mailing list. Right. Hey, Fleming. Fleming, Francisco, what he said? All right And this is overwhelmingly, we need the important the mailing list right hey Fleming Flaming Francisco what he said all right and this is overwhelmingly we need the we need the important stuff on the mailing list for discussions to some extent, we are going to rely on the discretion of editors to identify those things whenever there's any controversial points whenever there's any major decisions to be made we'll ask that people bring that to the main list and anyone can do that. It's just not just the editors, but that will be the primary responsibility of those folks I don't think we need to hum on that one. That seemed pretty overwhelming to me So that's what we'll tentatively set up, I think Okay, so one of the groups that we're coordinating with is Wimsy the Workload Identity in something, something, something, something Wimsy, the workload identity in something, something, something. I always remember it for five minutes and then go back to Wimsy And this was Justin and Peter we're going to present this except they're not here where's peter oh there you are"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "Peter, did you not know this was you yang justin? I knew it was just Justin Oh, I should go to the park This is the like that is that's a health and safety thing Okay. I guess I yep, just before. Okay, so recently, well, not so recently formed just before Brisbane, the workload identity and multi-sist, environments is really focused on on, developing standards to secure workload to workload community and also documenting best practices, as well as filling various gaps when you start working in these microservices architect so maybe next slide please so what is the workload? It is a run various gaps when you start working in these microservices architecture. So maybe next slide, please. So what is the workload? It is a running instance of software executing for a specific purpose. And next other thank you. So for example, you can have the next one maybe back one so basically each of these things potentially are workloads or made up of multiple workloads your client your gateway and then the various microservices behind that Next slide, please So workload identity this has actually been a bit of a topic in or a bit of a discussion in the work group this week and also leading up to this about what is a workload identity So it just means of identifying a workload and a way that makes sense in its context. And my co-chair is just arrived and so I'm sure he's going to come and fully near. Hi, justin richer, channeling"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "brian campbell Like, yeah, it's the second time this week anyway one of the things that we did actually decide this week is that instead of trying to def- workload identity we're going to sort of first focus in on the components, what is the identifier, what is the credential? format, etc. Next slide, please, Heather Okay and can, can the credential format, etc. Next slide, please, Heather. Okay, yang justin, do you want to talk to this one? Hi, sorry about that I thought this started at 5.30. All right, so a workload as I'm sure Peter talked about, is a running piece of software in context Did I get the order right? Cool, good enough And so the thing is, when you're identifying a workload in a running system, you want to be able to talk about, not only do I know that this particular component, exists, I wanna know what it's talking to, and in a lot of cases, I want to know the path, I want to know the graph of all the cultures that were made from here to there Next slide And multi-system environments means that we are not always talking inside the same cloud We've got things that, like part of it's running on Azure, part of it's running on AWS We need to be able to deal with things in ways that cross boundaries So all of the solutions in whimsy need to work not only inside a particular environment, but also be designed in such a way that they either work or at least consider how things look when you're crossing these boundaries. Next slide because when you're connecting out to a system, in a lot of cases, you don't know how, everything is going to be composed ahead of time So this service might need to call something else that's got a whole challenge of things. And this guy down at the end, here, Kwux, might actually still need to need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "name of the user that came in That's something that is two environments removed from the processing here How do we carry that context? How do we even reason about that? That's the type of stuff that we need to do inside of Wimsey Next slide Sorry, out of breath, kind of ran over here All right, we are, working on problems that are unique to workload-style environments. That's really, the core differentiation of whimsy And we're also trying to solve general problems like how do you identify a person or a piece of software, but in the unique context of a workload environment So there's a lot of great work that's happening here in Skit, in other places about identifying people in software and whatnot. What does that mean in the context? of a workload? That's what we're trying to work on in Wimsy We're trying to bring together different communities that are working on the different pieces of this and realizing that we're not going at this with a blank page, people have already built out a whole bunch of stuff out of duct tape and baling twine because they needed to solve problems. We need to figure out what the shape of that duct tape is and write it down at the very least, which is when I'm trying to get Honest to do but we need to write down what people have done, but also try to come up with better solutions for what we can do going forward. Next slide, please Importantly with Wimsy, there's a whole bunch of stuff that we're not doing. Some of this is stuff that we'll be doing here in Spice. Some of this is stuff that happening elsewhere. Even not outside of the IETF, there's a lot of good stuff that's happening Everything we do in whimsy is going to touch all of this in one way or another, though, whether it's being carried as part of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "context, whether it's part of the processing, anything like that. We need to be able to figure that out without trying to solve all of these problems from whole cloth. Next slide And that's it. Please join the mailing list join the working group we're doing some fun stuff And occasionally the chairs actually keep their schedule and show up on time. Thanks Thanks Start Bye Trying to decide which of these paths has one type of a trip hazard and I just ripped this off of whatever ORI did. That's where this came from. Sorry, I copied your slides for the deck So next slide, please We're going to talk a bit about use cases This is just quick recap of things that are in the charter and proposed revisions to the charter that may somehow have forgotten if it merged, but we'll figure that out. But basic why are we here? I think really what started this work, um, uh, from a hallway conversation, was to go through and start to figure out how can we document and define use of third party three party model credentials so this is issuer verify, or holder stuff, and we'll come back to that in a minute with COES specifically, right? How can we do this stuff in buy? model credentials. So this is issuer, verify, or holder stuff, and we'll come back to that in a minute. With COESA specifically, right? How can we do this stuff in binary as opposed to JSON or other encodings? And especially recognizing that a lot of the folks looking at three-party model scenarios, were looking at human in the loop cases or cases dealing with people in the mix or PII types stuff and things like that. And there are a lot of cases"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "that are really machine to machine, right? System to system type scenarios. Next slide so quick definition I think from faces I recognize that many people are from familiar with these terms, but I also suspect there might be some new folks. So just in case, an issue is the person that's kind of like signing up and general up the credential to begin with, right? They're really constructing and securing the initial credential. Hold are things or people, but some kind of wallet oftentimes gets used in terms of people cases. Other other terms come up that controls how credentials get disclosed I just ripped some of this terminology out of what was in a charter draft. I'm not saying I agree with it, and I am sure Brent is undel can comment on some of this But this is what's in there now and we can improve this Verifier, that's verifying a signal right? Did this work, right? Is it what I thought it was? Next slide so can improve this. Verifier, that's verifying a signature, right? Did this work, right? Is it what I thought it was? Next slide. So, you know, recapping, basically, what were some of the other motivating factors, right? We're really after binary credentials, right? So Seabor stuff, we want cryptic agility, right? We especially, a lot of us have cases that are requiring post-quantum for government reasons and things like that. So we're gonna make sure that's there And we want to make sure that we could preferably use FIPP Phipps-approved stuff or NIST-approved stuff. I You know, with both regular fully signed credit and with selected disclosure type mechanisms. We understand there are problems with SD SD-type credentials, right? JWT is SD, JWT, whatever you want to call it, depending on the variation. There are some possible things around linkability and stuff like that that aren't ideal. We'll get to that But right now it's what we've got. The other side is that in a lot of the machine-to-machine cases, especially supply chain stuff,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "and things like that are things dealing with regulatory cases right? I personally have systems that like have to deal with like did we log evidence around, like, compliance? with something, right? Some of these things can be very, very long lived. And in those cases, right, some of the things that deal with more you know like privacy past types scenarios and things like that don't really apply. So it's a case we have to be aware of. Next slide So the two sets of use cases that came to mind when we were first kind of bashing around some ideas and starting to get an email together on this, the initial motivator, especially for myself and I know some others in the room, was physical supply chain stuff right how do we handle things like import permits or capturing data around traceability? other things like that? The other side was credentials around off- authenticity and providence, right? How do we describe the shape? How do we permit things like selected disclosure around some of that? You know, cases like what data went into trading a model and things like that So do we have the right things for that? And I'll pause because I see a queue. I was going to ask if you wanted to take questions during Yeah, I'm totally fine for during I like a little chaos. Question, not a comment No chaos, but I would appreciate it. So when you say selective disclosure to me, that rings a very strong human privacy bell. And so I would appreciate the use case for selective disclosure machine to machine. Excellent use case so I'll give you one directly out of supply chain that comes up all the time which is if you have an I'll take USDA AFIS, because that's the organization on most familiar with, if they go out and do a foreign site inspection, at an agricultural facility, what it comes of that is a nice little package of data, right? And the results of that will get shared to multiple parties the details of that are shared on a need-to-know basis based on rule lists and who actually has hierarchies"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "So it ends up coming into a system, that credential then, you know, rather than having to re-sign every single time for each receiving party can be broken up and then distributed as needed with perhaps hey, this passed or this failed, but not necessarily the detail that might contain proprietary information to the receiver Thank you Next slide So what's next? We're going to talk about some other stuff i do have a question for the chairs and probably for the folks that are here as part of this working group are just shadowing this working group waiting for interesting things to happen or not happen, which is do we want to use case doc in this group, right? Is that something we can make? maintain, not necessarily thinking this is going to be normative or anything? It could be a web file, but I have found that useful in other groups Like can we document and improve, in fact, it came to mind, especially in the DM conversation earlier this week of like, wow, we're talking about a lot of this stuff Maybe we could add some of this information here, so it's well captured So thoughts, poll, maybe. I don't know there's a microphone I don't want to just hear from us. We have opinions, but Mahmoud Al-Qaishi here. I think use case is talking about be a really good idea. Having been part of the DM conversation, this week, there were a lot of stuff that happened there that I really think should be part of Spice and unless people can see it written down in a clear way they will just not get it. Thank you roy williams, Microsoft i think the use case specifically around the different verticals or uses that we have will law a basic foundation, like the soft supply chain and product versus factory and company physical supply chain are interesting but they're not necessarily the same so the use case would help fly that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "justin richer, I think, you cases and writing them down is vitally important, especially when work is getting started. I think that it happened them be in a known location is also really important And I think a use case document for a working group as a published artifact is one of the stupidest things that I have seen done at the IETF, and we absolutely should not do that and I mean that in the normative sense. We would have to have a very, very good reason to actually do it that. The reason for this is that use cases change They, you would want to add some, remove some, explain them and none of this is conducive to the RFC archival format I have also seen working groups put a ton of effort into getting the use cases exactly right to the detriment of actually making any progress on any technology to implement or address any of those use cases Use cases fundamentally are about setting tone, setting focus, setting sort of fence around what it is that you're doing and why you're doing it. And for that, some type of document where it's written down is beautiful and wonderful as a working group artifact Please know. So just Justin would you advise us to adopt the document but have no and have a note in it simply saying do not publish? So, um, this, this is, actually something that has come up in whimsy recently and I think that there are basically three main paths that could be taken. Adopt the document as an eternal ID put everything into a wiki like an official working group controlled wiki of which we've got access to like three or four main ones right, with official IETF branding or just have somebody put it on a web page somewhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and tell everybody, go there it's a lot less official but it's also effective and um you know, I don't know what the right answer is, but they all have, they all have tradeoffs. I do think that making it RFC track in any fashion, that's the real mistake tool tool Okay. Thank you. So this is Hank of the mic Justin is in punching distance I'm absolutely in favor of Justin to propose user journeys to publish as RFC or data journeys. They love them But joking aside, the content of use cases is the basis for required as basis for actually the whole solution so saying that use cases change means that your requirements change means that the solution has to be adopted. And if it does not extend and adaptable enough, and you're shaking, you can you can argue against this, of course, but if the requirements change you have to change something else typically Or you build a solution that is already that flexible or extensible, that's not a pain in the neck so i think that is what we're targeting here and the use cases will always remind us, and we don't have to publish one as I ever see it It's absolutely clear. But it's very important to write that down and not publish them. Yes And maybe have one or two user journeys in the text to understand why we are already doing this but that's that's a middle ground. I think we can all be up All right, stay lasker, I just plus one to just put them in GitHub in the same working group with no intention to publish them. This way you solved your central discovery problem and not killing your with overhead and process to finish it Thank you. Thank you MPINF. I would like to remind the group of the WG-adjopted informational status in the Datatracker, which is an explicit marker that this document"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "will not be published as an RFC, but it is adopted by the working group as a useful document to inform its Sounds like a lot of people want to do that The question is, do we want to adopt this? Is the next one I think we're going to just do a brief show of hands People will think that this is the right sort of thing to I'm used I show of hands means us that poll So this show of hands implies the existence of a number option Sorry? Does this show of hands imply? the existence of another option than this? I think you might want to put it like, should we the doctor? Because I mean... Are you volunteering? to write another option then? No Should we adopt? Oh, and if anyone wants to use this time to get up and tell us that that's a bad idea, the microphone is right there Watson I think we might want to see a couple more. I think this document is useful. I don't think it's necessarily the only use case that participants here care about, and I would encourage people to either on the list or in the form of a draft write down things you might not have thought of here Thanks, Watson. I 100% agree. This would be an input document that we understand is very very skeleton-y and non-con NOMCOMplete, and that gives the working group a chance to make sure we're getting good coverage on it and factoring in all things. So did that, does that answer your question?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "there? We're not intending this to be like the end all be all use case this is version zero the expectation is that once it's a working group document, it's the working groups and if people want to discuss use cases we'll do that the chairs will consult with Mike and the other co-authors on this input document and we'll talk about adoption confirming on the list, as it were Okay. All right thank you so much. And I'm going to present on this too, but first I'm going to note because he told me I could that I can blame Ori for the naming of this document because of that little BCP at the end So I don't know if he wants to throw a little comment in there Perhaps there was some spice involved Yeah, so after having sat in the whimsy sessions, calling something a BCP when you're having your first ever working group meeting, and this is the dash zero zero draft is super bad idea that that's my fault the the reason that you know that name was chosen is to with to try and spark the sort of imagination of what we wanted this to be, we wanted to provide guidance, you know, guidelines. There's some many words i could have used that would be better but you can, you can, it's my fault That's why we love you, Ori. Next slide, please So what is this doc in? why is it here well this doc really started because I occasionally interact with these like policy regulatory folks It's just something that happens in my life now, I guess And they're consistently always saying, like, hey, I want to own or am required them own, perhaps, by law, the actual, like, data elements themselves. What can be shared to who and things? like that, especially in a regulatory context"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "But what they don't want to do is going to GitHub, because they're not GitHub-y kind of people. In fact, they tend to work in things like Microsoft Word with track changes on and running by lawyers and things like that However, a lot of times they're writing docs on things that will end up going over the wire or get models in some kind of data scheme or structure somehow And what ends up happening oftentimes will take a look at just a minute here but is that interesting things tied to specific encodings or formats will get looped into these policy docs. I've seen things like fixed the limit cobal and wire transmission things described in actual policy docs, and that's kind of problem So we wanted to just kind of put together some guys guidance around how do you write a policy doc so that a normal program or a system could go take a look at this doc and then turn it into something that's actually useful from a day structure side, right? So we could separate the encoding possibly the security standards, etc. Next slide So once again, how do we separate out, right, the thing that should be separated out, right? We don't really want to kind of try to merge together in one thing or in one standard, the data shape and the encoding the mechanisms for securing that data, the actual transfer mechanisms. A lot of times that stuff gets all blended together Sometimes that's a good thing. Oftentimes it's painful And so what this draft is really intended to do is to help policymakers and regulators describe the data shape and the encoding without, you know, without mixing the two, right, allowing coding to be separate out as appropriate and permit upgrades Next slide And so once again, I did this because I was asked to do it And I actually thought it was a good idea and I thought it was kind of a good way out to help provide some guidance here So an example case I'm going to use a very specific one. Folks that are international, trade, this is almost exactly the way that it was phrased to me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "need to be in control of the changes I need to be a able to say, hey, we changed the name of this or suddenly now we need this specific date added in, right? Not just the date that something was transported maybe the date that they ordered it, right? Things like that But they don't necessarily know all the technical details under the hood, but they do want to bind it to good guidance, right, as required possibly by Phipps or NIST and then they want to leverage open standards where appropriate, etc That's cool. We want to encourage that, right? We want to encourage people to reference IETF work or elsewhere And so basically the request was, I want to just give you a table of what data I want to collect where and what the names need to be, because that's what the law tells me. But I don't want to get any further than that. So it's the starting place. Next slide I'm going to pull up a nice little fun example. This is something that got handed to me a couple of years ago is this is our most moderate new thing for how we're going to do digitally exchange credentials Oh boy, this was fun Does anyone in here just random show of hands recognize this doc? Am I the only strange person? that works on organic products? It's a phytosanitary cert. This is e-phito This was the collection of years and years of work It was a masterpiece. And it's just now finally getting it adopted. Like we're just now seeing traction of this stuff going over the wire using an Excel schema that is just megabytes and megabytes and megabytes huge that all has to be read in order to transform this stuff. And it's big stuff going over the wire using an Excel schema that is just megabytes and megabytes and megabytes huge. That all has to be read in order to transform this stuff. And it's baked into Word docs and PDFs and things like that all this fun little stuff. Next slide Do you want to take a question from Tony? Oh, yes, Tony, please So I'm here signs of a data model here, which I hope is not the case. Yeah we're gonna get to what we actually want to give them the ability to do. So let's pop to the next one We want to pull those couple of columns in the middle out, right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "We wanna give folks the ability that have to write these policies to see yep i need to collect this information maybe there's some constraints. Maybe it needs to be numeric or something else But that's about the most I want to do, right, is to specify those things. Next slide So we want to have them do that without having to bake in a requirement that says, nope, you've got to go do it in this. In fact, there was a suggestion made somewhere that like, hey, we actually like buying the reg to like a JSON LD context or something And I saw another one that was like, nope, we're gonna go in and buy it to this exact XML model schema precisely like we were just looking at. Those things get a little bit brittle and problematic, right? Because then when you need to rev them or when there's a change, suddenly folks are going through and iterating all sorts of stuff just to add a field name. Next slide And so we want to go through and separate that out, right? We want to break that dependency on the two if we can or at least provide some guidance on how to better do this. Next slide And we want to give them something where they can just give a basic table of what data they need to send right maybe some additional properties. And what those properties maybe could be named consistent Maybe we can help standardize some of that name around some of these very common scenarios we encounter at least in the physical and cross-border trade side, right? can help standardize some of that naming around some of these very common scenarios we encounter, at least in the physical and cross-border trade side. We see some of this done in like UNC FACT and things like that where there's some good naming, but once again, it's all tied up into all sorts of other directly embedded data in code and formats that might change over time. It's not perfect So let's try to simplify this. Next slide so just question for the group this is something I'm going to keep working on guidance-wise in general but it would be nice if I could get someone other than me and Ori and my mood looking at it going, hey, this is what we know. See Justin on the key queue? I was trying to let you finish before I jumped in. Oh, no. Okay, so two things Why is this spicy?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Why is it spicy? Yeah, why would it be here? This is sounds to be very general very bright And I have a second question after this Yeah, it is. The reason it's spicy actually is just because it's directly related to credentials we were working at So we threw it in here. So that was like the motivating push. This was tied to our motivating use cases actually. Okay, no, that's interesting. The same threw it in here. So that was like the motivating push. This was tied to our motivating use cases actually. Okay, no, that's interesting. The second bit is that I have been involved with several efforts that have tried to create a generic type system that did work group which many of you were in tried to cut with several efforts that have tried to create a generic type system. The did working group, which many of you were in, tried to kind of do something like that too, and that really fell apart. And with a failure in terms of the typing system I will fully state that here um and uh it's really hard to do and it's especially hard to get consensus about. And I think especially, especially when you're doing anything that involves complex typing you know, sets, orders, anything like that So what would this? allow people to do that's any different? And how would it be any better? It's a great question random chance did you get a chance to read through this Oh, no, of course. No, not. No i was just checking yeah um well in that case does it point to an existing typing system, like whatever the week? one from w3c or you were actually not at that stage yet. What we're basically doing is saying, what are the basic things you need to make sure as a policy person you should describe and what are the things you should what are the good things not to make it right and do the policy doc to avoid problems? So rather while we were looking at shapes of data and stuff. Right, right it's the stuff that actually keeps that stuff from creeping in So it's kind of the guidance to prevent policymakers from creeping that in. So this is a subtle nuance. And I think it's actually an important distinction because it's not something that comes up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "And when I was looking around like my collection of like, hey, here's references I cite when I'm going and talking to public policymakers about how to write policy I didn't find anything all this. There wasn't a like don't mix these things all together. And so it was really just a way, hey, maybe we can provide some basic guidance around there. Okay so this is basically the do not make a typontology document. Oh yeah. This is don't do that did work in green actually. Right. I mean, not for, you know There's lots of reasons. I'm sure that someone's going to look at this recording and hold it back to me later. Like, I'll get an email on it Absolutely. All right. Thank you. That clears up a lot AJ. Okay So in a previous life, and it ha ha, it wasn't a standard, I guess it was an emerging specification I worked on an information data modeling system for cyber cybersecurity data. So I can see there are lots of dragons beyond the fun of the did case I think there are good bones here. So I know you're asking about adoption. I will with a lot of people, have been commit to reading it. It's interesting because I've been skimming it at this point. As an assessment, have you talked to other people? outside of the credential space, perhaps? Some of them are in NIST. Some are not around the technical language processing community because I think you're getting to this interesting area and that's what this document is about. It's structured data formats and ontologies aren't good for communicating with knowledge non-technical stakeholders. They're technical in the sense they're special in a regulatory or legal domain and they have notions of things, but not the way computer scientists are engineering or protocol designers think. And there needs to be some way of bridging the gap. The TL people are very focused on safety concerns with maintenance of systems. There's some people in my employer, by the way, I'm A.J. Stein I didn't introduce myself. I work with colleagues in the national Institute of Standards of Technology, and they run a community of interest around this and they have lots of papers. They might be interested in I can get I can do my own due diligence here"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "and maybe get feedback from them on some of the notions of this paper It seems very, wow, paper draft. Apologies it's late for me. If that would be beneficial beyond my immediate review, that is all. AJ, that's would be awesome contribution to answer your question yes, I did talk to some folks on that you know, kind of the technical writing aspect and some otherwise I have some strong benefit than my wife used to do some of that in a past life prior to what she's doing now. And I did check with some folks at National Defense University when we were preparing some course work last year So there were definitely some gaps found and I would love extra eyes. Fantastic. I'll try to work on that. Thank you Cool. I think a deck's going to show up. So I'm just not going to leave. I'm just going to stand here You have 15 minutes. Yeah, excellent So we're going to talk about why being first is not always being better That was kind of the subtitle that jumped into my mind here because the to talk about why being first is not always being better. That was kind of the subtitle that jumped into my mind here because we're able to kind of evaluate some cases and approaches and things we've seen and stuff like MDox and other things like that that might have some gaps that don't really match the use cases we at least were looking at so next slide So what we're going to talk about right now is what we tentatively called SDC I actually titled it COESA SDC going to talk about right now is what we tentatively called SDCWT. I actually titled it COZCWT, I think originally, and then it because that was even before looking at disc And then, because that was even before looking at, or even discussing, like, maybe we should talk about, like, how do we do it? credentials more broadly? And it was the draft really that I think led to the kickoff of us discuss this, but my memory is very fuzzy, so don't quote me on that So, basically, a couple of the properties were really asked was that ability to do selective disclosure, particularly even at large scale with binary type credentials So the case I was bringing up about exchanging"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "agricultural inspections, there's other kinds of things like that, right, where you might have to selectively disclose some properties that, you know, depending on who has a need to know Additionally, proof of possession turns out to be really important, right? if someone's disclosing something you want to know like are they actually is that c and f in place right so that's something that we may sure was incorporated in this latest draft here The other thing that we're really after is a property that I think everyone's familiar with here, but that's data minimization right? Don't disclose things in the clear that you don't have to. It's probably good reasons for that. And so really what we're after is a way to take keys in a array elements and make sure that they can be disclosed cleanly, consistently and hidden and blinded, right, when appropriate And so how we have approached this is to make sure that any CWT claims that are not explicitly marked as redactable by the issuer are disclosed, right? So we're gonna give some guidance around the- issue, right? Give the issuer a little bit of control over what goes over the wire, what doesn't, what you can hide from someone else and what you can Next slide So basic diagram I ripped out of this version of the draft but basically we've got the three-party thing where you're talking about, right? The issuer goes ahead and says, yep, I've got this CWT, I passed it over to the holder Then when you're looking at sending this over, you're presenting this over to a verifier, right? There's basically get a, get an ounce from the verifier, get the knots back redact what you're going to redact. Go ahead and have it things up. Put your CNF in there, right? How do I need? this key, and then you present that back to the verifier I think I got all that flow right. Orie will probably tell me that I'm wrong and dumb, but maybe not I'm not sure. Maybe I actually paid attention to what I was reading and writing. So next slide So really what this is, right? when we look at what an SDCWT is, it's a CWT"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "literally just a CWT, but it contains some unique things, right? What are we actually signing? Well, it's kind of the digested possibly, right, but salted disclosed claims. And the salt is key, right? We really want to make sure we're blinding properties. We don't want very verifiers learning things that they're not intentionally supposed to know. You want to give that mechanism and that capability there One of the key things here is that C blinding properties. We don't want verifiers learning things that they're not intentionally supposed to know. You want to give that mechanism and that capability there. One of the key things here is that CNF must be present. That is a mandatory right? That's the stance we're taking, at least in this first of the draft. That's not to say if this were adopted by the working group that we couldn't change that. That feels really important to those of us that started this out And then the KBT must not be separate by the issuer and must be set by the holder It's really helping us separate these roles that they play and also providing this ability for some by the issuer and must be set by the holder. It's really helping us separate these roles that they play and also providing this ability for something to pass through multiple parties before ultimately being verified as not having been tampered with along the way really important in trade use cases. Next slide So a couple of things A couple of good properties. Once again, this is just copy paste right out of the draft because that's a good way to talk about what we're talking about. The issuers should confirm that the holder actually passed the confirmation material, right? Don't just make an assumption. Don't take this in, right? Let's actually kick this out. There are some cases where you might skip it, but it's a real strong should The other thing is, is that we should utilize nonses. There are cases, once again, you always get these little weird exception things, but you want to be pretty strong about like, preventing replay attacks and stuff like that So that should be accounted for. Next slide So validation you validate like a cWT. What do you know? magic so that's first step next slide And then you go through an extract out process, validate, you take any disclosed king claims, you hash them up and go through and make sure that the signatures all match"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "So you really want to go through and make sure everything's done I seem to recall that we may have even written that like, hey, there's like these five steps you need to do in detail somewhere around there. It's three to five steps. And that the order of those doesn't matter too, too much, right? There is some necessary processing orders, but they all must be computed in order to make sure that the verification is complete before either passing or failing the verification next slide slide So an example, if you like looking at CDDL, up on screen sure this is Hank's fault, guaranteed. Believe it hit merge just because I saw his name on it Next slide So some differences, seabor tags, right? The, we're going through and instead of doing, underscore SD and some other things like that right there we're making sure that we're using extended diagnostic notation, right? We want to make sure that an issuer claim can be made disclosable, and then we're taking advantage of unprotected headers instead of having to have the tilda at the end of an encoded jot, right? So that's pretty just kind of taking advantage of seabor being seen Seabor, right, and Coz being Cozé being Coz. So the other thing that I know was in an earlier version, we may have actually stripped it out in this version in which case I think we should put it back in with some explicit discussion around counter signatures and counter signatures usage because those come up a lot, but we'll have to take a look at it again and see if more text needs to be added there. Next slide so this is really now a good time to ask any questions for myself Hank or any anyone else who worked on this and then failing those questions I think the other question back for the group is, is this something we want to work on? And if so, is this a good starting place for something for us to work? on? I know it's in our charter, so it seemed like a natural place to go"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Rohan, I think is up. Yeah rohan mahy. I think this is a really important building block and I want us to adopt it, and I'm also willing to help Thanks. Awesome, thank you for the opportunity eyes Your Honor, Chef, I'm very supportive of the document I'm a little bit confused and I may have made misunderstood. You started by describing a non-redactable flag but then you didn't talk about it anymore and you didn't mention it when you talked about the disclosure algorithms, so I'm a bit confused and suspicious of the flag Yeah, what I was getting at there So it might be two more slides back One more more. And one more. I can't remember how I built this down out. It was late at night. Don't blame me But basically, the issuer can specify that certain things should not be redacted. So like, hey, you must pass this along as a piece of information, right? Because sometimes you might need it identifier, especially, so that it's consistently named right? And so that, that gives the issue or control over that, but then says, hey, net you as a holder it can redact the rest of these things right we've seen multiple cases where that can come up like and i'll give a good example on guidance rolling back to the ag case You would probably have the identifier or the GLB a lot of times, right? I forget what that actually stands for on GS1 terms, but the GLN like, so the location number for that farm that it originated at and the inspection result might be required to all forget what that actually stands for on GS1 terms, but the GLN locates the location number for that farm that it originated at, and the inspection result might be required to always pass along. Does that make sense? I can speak specifically to agriculture examples, but I think that the holder will need to have some policy around what is disclosed and the may well be negotiated"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "of what is disclosed and so I think you'd need this business logic anyway and trying to codify it in the VC itself is probably just adding complexity rather than Yeah, you're on great point. I think the main thing we wanted to make sure is that the credential format itself, the disclosure format permits cases and uh that could arise so that that policy can be sat right at a separate layer because otherwise it might be a little more, you might not have a technique mechanism of enforcing it right so that was just i think where our thinking was if i remember correctly but hank will probably tell me i'm wrong somehow So we've got just about five minutes left and four people in queue, so be efficient. Be efficient so here I am brian campbell Jose and enthusiast and Crusader against multiple token times about to ask a semi-retourical question that I will want an answer for The ISO, already defines a kind of token which offers selective disclosure and proof of possession type semantics in Seabor with Kozai signatures signatures Are those open standards or are they behind a paywall? I am not in a position to make statements regarding the ISO's policy or availability of their documents documents? Did I? So what, so your question is? So Tony Nadler, I do work on the document that brian campbell talking about in ISO and it is a specification you do have to pay for the specification, but it is generally available"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "So it depends on which you definitely of open is That's definitely out of scope for the group It's why it's semi-ritorical. I don't like the policy either. But it doesn't make sense to be duplicating that kind of work good question It's a very fair question It's a very fair question. Thank you. So, okay. I also don't think that the, I'm not wanting to pay for that document. I also don't want to pay for it. Yeah So I suspect though, perhaps, and maybe someone in the room could comment that has paid for this document because it's in their budget or because they were required to or something, I suspect that maybe there's some different hashing and salting mechanisms and things like that that introduced some good properties here. My understanding is the overall concepts. The specifics are quite different. The concept concepts are the same. So it delivers the same functionally is the overall concepts. The specifics are quite different. The concepts are the same so it delivers the same sort of functional use cases. Anyway, I just felt like I had to ask. More specifically, a different question, I'm sorry, the requirement for proof of possession, it was actually I believe, use cases that were driven by you or perhaps some of your co- co-authors or or related that pushed to have that stuff be optional in the somewhat equivalent SD jot specification and at least my understanding of like presentation from one part of another and another to another were things that you you actually needed here so i was a little surprised to see that as being a hard requirement Hank, would you like to speak to proof of possession or Ori? Yeah don't have time. We don't have time I'll keep it. We can maybe pick this up again"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "Christina? I don't expect speaking after Brian, because he usually mentions my questions, but plus one to his first question I would like to hear a reason, which is not we want it, we don't want to be behind the paywall I was hoping to get a bit more technical argument, like why MDogs defined in ISO do not meet your use case. I think I can guess but you know I think that would be a much stronger argument to you know, do this work Because, like, as Nesia's author, we obviously did look into MD a much stronger argument to, you know, do this work. Because as Nesia author, we obviously did look into MDogs and we did have pretty good reasons why our design deviates from that design quite significantly So, you know, my second question was actually kind of digging deeper to Brian's second question. So with we have done in the last working group for is stage odd and distichot vc specifications is partially layering how some people call it by it prestige job we thought it's a, you know, really use case general kind of a container like a jot, we're going to define it because we want to be like a general mechanism and then for a very specific use cases that some people had in mind, we have to find this day jot VC. And when I read through SDWT draft, I got an impression where it's right now somewhere in between And I don't, so for example, you know, it mandates confirmation claim while the rest of the city claims seem to be optional, which I think you told me is probably not that intended So we'd like to see that to be clear. I don't have a strong opinion yet. Like if you already have a very specific set of use cases and you do not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "need this layering separation, like make it very clear that it's, you know, close to SDWGVC or if that's not the case um maybe have you know if one drought that is close to SD-CWT, where confirmation claim is not mandated and then, you know, follow up with the second one. So, suggestion Thank you, Christina. I think those would be excellent things to consider were this to be a working group draft rather than an individual internet draft okay we are we are actually technically at start of break. So if anyone wants to go a break and we'll just pick this up again in half an hour I would have forgotten what this is about yeah so I can't speak to the MDoc because it is literally invisible to me So but as a person that is kind of used to align Jason things and see what things, CDD, we'll write CDDL that tries to do this here in the IETF and then you can give it to someone that owns the ISO spec and then make them review. So that's a good way to check. It's a redundant work or not. The exercise of aligning work here in the IETF is necessary in any case So that's why I am now onboarded on the STW ID because we need to have that check exercised. And then we go from there there Let's break 30 minutes We'll be starting on time time time I think we do You know if it's the same"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "Datatracker or is it a different?"
  }
]
