[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "how\u0027s look that we came out to see you about here we go at Verisign I am awful with dreams you know we\u0027re in your lab biology so just yeah we\u0027re here yeah we\u0027re getting closer to actually having to do something yeah it sounds like yeah and so I think it\u0027s probably worth what they\u0027re touch basic in itself yeah yeah yeah isn\u0027t a session and I talk to them okay something I know I\u0027ve got a very fun very pointed question I wanted to ask someone like yourself yeah even if you\u0027re not the right person I know you can find something so when we talk about gated accidents right and this idea of if you\u0027re willing to talk to indicate yourself you will be able to get some type of access to more information do you think that there is any willingness at the FBI to run some type of a server that could be used to issue potentials to FBI employees okay so this is this is going to be a problem anywhere someway somehow the only way we can grant privileges to people is if somehow we know who they are yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s what I write educating yes and I can tell you it\u0027s not gonna work from my perspective having to give usernames and passwords to everybody who wants to access our service it just it won\u0027t work because we don\u0027t have the customer support staff yeah we take the phone calls at all hours I forgot my password and yeah I mean no one is paid to maintain that kind of data okay so it\u0027s probably still worthwhile to talk it\u0027s as a be willing I think you\u0027d be thirsty if it\u0027s something we can come up with some type of a proposal for something that works for both of our communities yeah the other thing that I don\u0027t know how much it\u0027s if I haven\u0027t discussed but from a legal perspective we I may be past the ado is looking into is that the potential moving to gated even at someone like Verisign or ICANN or anyone is saying law enforcement gets ubiquitous access it makes the subject eyes - - because we don\u0027t know the law enforcement there\u0027s yeah but I\u0027m saying once you close the information that we publicly available in any sort of form it may introduce in which case law enforcement have no more interested in it well yeah so that\u0027s a separate issue "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "for you guys okay I have those and I\u0027m sure this with us vehicle road so he\u0027s a remote chair here see slide obviously the oldest or the first made up as usual just eating today you say your do belongs the idea please say no to that question certain certain enemy this you are urged to speak to your own people represented duty and make decisions about what you aren\u0027t going to do within the idea there was a time and a lot of work reduce to focus up I like to still continue to use this working group that\u0027s be somewhat slow moving their writing reasons one of which is just making sure that we have people who perfu documents and that could be engaged in their discussions so like to slide up their mind people pens do that those documents so it is useful to be somewhat obvious I suppose which is that you want your documents okay a reminder we\u0027re actually having two beams at this idea and we\u0027ve got them all in one meeting time slot the last idea of events with our working group into a to eating smashing time soft actually what before that I\u0027m sorry not eating at Pasco can\u0027t do time slots and this time rather than doing to time slots we felt that we actually just had to whatever sessions latest is a little number one our sessions you just see the PC is to do it to our recession and half of the ERM of date and say happy working session so we will just begin working session easily after our update here okay so jumping right into the update session and be any here first thing of course is au visa Jeffrey those cry for volunteers help us out here so yeah those over here we have a jammer strike someone who\u0027s just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:06",
    "text": "willing to watch the jabber Rubin up to the vital debate but it wants to see and put some injuries jabber map that\u0027s going on through anyone that\u0027s easy job no this is obese apartment somebody please you\u0027re sitting next to Michael gotta pick on you except that\u0027s got to get fast I see you shirt me thank you someone anyone to be a jammer sky forest okay thank you alright will be not quickly to the next item due to the agenda so existing document status I ween out here at this section is our launch phase document is actually working its way to the Chinese Jean use happening the author\u0027s fit them quite responsive and it\u0027s moving along did you want to say anything here just know so-called good good news for us and yeah we\u0027ll be nany 2x read about Bates I actually added something to the jiggy here I added a number four point five most of you pose right there give us these slides that he had but one can talk about these things he included that that slide it there I just figured like it\u0027s zero minute give a little bit of an introduction as he gets up to the microphone here to talk about his is to updates you also give us the league in or a ways that we talked about at the working session yet so bright curve up here Judy and I think box - lines up for you you a little closer that\u0027s better there we go fee document so we are I think Cal just a quick note I\u0027ve got some feedback from mediocre saying that people can\u0027t hear you Jim your mic might not be functioning okay thanks hopefully this is loud enough online as well the feed IQ met I think we\u0027re there we\u0027ve got a couple open questions that we\u0027ve popped up from implementation actually which is great the next version is ready to be published it hasn\u0027t been published yet where I think it\u0027s still a 8th online "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:07",
    "text": "right now revision 9 I actually just added one extra item to the schema so that the server client and server can have better type checking on the epp so that\u0027s the only change besides clarity a lot of implementation that work has been done and a lot of clarity items have been added in just text the two questions that came up I don\u0027t know if Jim wants to talk to him directly but I\u0027ll raise him here he talks about the CD fail flag and what that means if a partial return is done so if you\u0027re only returning a partial set of the requested commands from the client what should the CD avail flag be set to and right now my interpretation of document is that it would return 0 if a partial set is returned it will return 1 only if the full requested set is returned so if there\u0027s any questions any concerns yeah the steam cooled from Verisign so I actually had the opposite thought on that one I thought that if L thought I actually won if all of the fee information was there and zero otherwise so and the reason why I\u0027m saying this is that if it was zero I was feeling that for the fast-fill scenario that then the reason would be required and then otherwise it would not so that\u0027s kind of so just to respond to that if you do a partial failure are you not returning a reason that was the second part yeah so if it was a partial fail scenario that you could use the single reason define why you\u0027re not including all of it or you would have the reason under each of the commands itself which when I was doing the implementation in the in our SDK that I thought it was overly complex to figure out like what how the client would actually process either a fast fail or a partial fail so I assumed from early on in discussions that registries would pick one or the other most likely so ones gonna return a fast fail and not return anything where other registries will actually try to process what they have and return that data knowing that you know some data is going to be missing so that\u0027s why I said the zero still works because it\u0027s didn\u0027t complete the command it it actually failed part of the command but that\u0027s why the reason was in two locations as well so is to give registries the option of running "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:07",
    "text": "either or yeah I think having the two reasons is somewhat of a confusion as well I\u0027m thinking that if it was zero that you would include an overall reason why it\u0027s not it well if you said zero they would return a reason why you could not provide it so as I said I think there were two different scenarios and I think that we\u0027ve had some discussions on it offline so okay I\u0027m gonna bring it to the list yep absolutely any other comments on that I will bring that up on the list as well so okay and the other one was yeah one item that came on the list that I wanted to be a clarification on was associated with the classification because the the text in the graph says classifications associated with the object and I know that there was Prior discussion on the list that there was a question who\u0027s associated with classification since the classifications on the command not at the object level in the in the XML schema but I believe I would like to hear from the other registries as well is that I believe that the classification is truly at the object level so if it\u0027s a premium domain name the fees are associated with the fact that is a premium domain name and that if it happens that the renew price was the same for a standard and a premium name that you wouldn\u0027t switch the classification based on the command asked for it was renew it\u0027s at the object level so my proposal would be moved classification up to under the CD element is instead of at the command level layer yeah and I think this we did have this discussion I don\u0027t know if a song list or off list but yeah that was a discussion that was had and and it does make sense to me as well that it\u0027s at the object level at the domain level so that it should be moved up to that level again if other registries have different thoughts let us know I\u0027ll post that to the list as well so okay any other questions or comments on the fee document all right I\u0027ll go ahead and post those last two remaining items to the list publish the next version shortly after the Hat I\u0027ll give time for comments of course but and then actually I\u0027ll ask for working group last call up with that version so okay so the validate I don\u0027t know if many of people have read this or not but this is intended to validate a set of contacts prior to registration typically right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:09",
    "text": "guys should say today if you can create valid contacts that on their own are okay but when you actually do a domain create and assign them to a role registrant admin or whatever additional checking is done at that time and will fail the registration so the goal of this extension is to actually provide a way to validate those contacts before actually trying to do a domain create so there\u0027s only been a handful of comments online last version was published in August and actually if there\u0027s no further comments we\u0027re just looking for implementers to implement it and work with GoDaddy on actually working through the implementation issues so any comments Jim yes team gold from Verisign Irie reviewed it this morning I know that we\u0027ve had some prior discussions on this but when I was having gifts some questions about was it looks like he\u0027s passing all the contact data to validate in essence in preparation for Navy a contact create even though it looks like you\u0027re trying to prepare for a domain create so part of it is like whether or not you could use this for existing contacts as well as you know in preparation to create contacts so that if you had a way an implementer would say well am I supposed to look to see whether or not the contact information linked to that contact identifier is valid for this particular domain name or TLD it\u0027s not clear in the draft whether or not you\u0027re doing it for existing contacts or new contacts I know there\u0027s a working session on this later on maybe we have people go into this a little bit more detail but webinars a precondition for a domain create or a contact creator both I guess that\u0027s where it\u0027s going down - yeah thanks Jim and actually its intended for any contact so new or existing contacts its intended for and the goal was the domain create though obviously you can be used for the contact create as well but the goal was originally so that once the domain create came up there there wouldn\u0027t be a chance of lesser chance of a failure so okay yeah and we will talk about it in the working session briefly again there hasn\u0027t been a whole lot of comments on it it is something that we actually run into every day we\u0027ll we\u0027ll be able to create our for contacts perfectly fine at the registry and then go to do a domain crate and it fails so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "and it happens multiple times a day for us so it\u0027s a big issue and I think that was it again you know this is just an opportunity for Roger to talk about the working session together just take a few minutes to try and post the discussion later thanks you\u0027re so registry mapping I think I think it came up last ETF or maybe one before that where we were started talking about the correct place for defining some of the launch phase attributes and we decided that the feed document wasn\u0027t correct we decided that the launch phase document wasn\u0027t correct so we started looking here and then we realized actually this this solves maybe some other problems that I exist out there today and again what we\u0027ll talk about this in the working session but I brought along a question here we\u0027ll call it the GoDaddy presents to registries when we\u0027re looking at onboarding a new TLD the last time I heard it was 400 and some questions and the reason is a registry somewhere answers one of those differently every one of those 400 questions is answered somewhat differently by a different registry so we have to know those parameters going into it and get our systems configured to handle it so other than that we just tagged on this is actually a Verisign been been out for quite a while now several years and it just seemed like a good place to pull that in and actually create a standard out of it so any questions we\u0027ll get into again a lot more details in the working session so that been part of meeting materials till just before this meeting that fortunately only upload at least you slides from before but I took the Excel spreadsheet that he gave us and turned into eeeh it\u0027s not a pretty idea you\u0027ve ever done themselves perfect it\u0027s not pretty unless you actually bothered to figure out how to format it I took the easy way out the purposes of just getting the document out there for equal when I grabbed it but if folks have Excel and you actually want the actual document I\u0027m sure when we get into the working session you\u0027ll distribute it around whoever\u0027s there and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:10",
    "text": "wants to see it so but the meeting materials don\u0027t let you upload excel documents anyway that\u0027s why I didn\u0027t upload that directly you have to make it a PDF they\u0027ll take powerpoints and Docs and text files and that\u0027s it so okay I don\u0027t see anyone coming to the mic so I guess that\u0027s it Thanks thanks Roger thank you that\u0027s great okay that brings us to the next section where we want to just kind of go through and review some of our milestones I\u0027m gonna try to do a little bit of a tag-team here with with Antoine so maybe Antoine if you want to jump into the queue here and then I\u0027ll I\u0027ll open it up so that you can we can see if you can speak and we can hear you hi everybody ah there we go alright oh that\u0027s right I forgot he was explaining to me once before that as the remote chair you get a different kind of login so he can just talk he doesn\u0027t actually have to be approved to talk with the cue okay so just to set up this discussion a little bit one of the things to mention folks will recall from earlier this year in the first meeting of the year we had a desire to want to add some additional documents actually was a year ago it wasn\u0027t even March it was the fall meeting last year we had a document in particular from Scott and and went from Andy so there was a desire to add some new working documents to our agenda our list of milestones and we got some pushback from our AIRAID director to you know to clean up our milestone list and to move our documents along a little more smartly he didn\u0027t want us adding additional documents until we kind of cleaned up where we were now along the way we we have actually cleaned things up we have moved a lot we\u0027ve gotten rid of a couple of documents and and sort of set them aside and move them off launch base is obviously being published and we have a number of documents which are very close to being published all but published in fact I made a assertion to our area director yesterday in a brief discussion with him about this that we are pretty close to three to five documents being ready to be pushed up for IHG publication you know by the end of this calendar year or certainly given the holidays one of the questions that came up was well there\u0027s a lot of holidays between now and the end of the year so maybe they\u0027ll be January of next year first quarter but in any case we\u0027re setting ourselves up for being able to take on number of documents but as part of that it seems useful to take a hard look at some of the documents that are there and really confirm that these things are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:10",
    "text": "ready to be pushed out the door or not or what the specific actions are because we have a number of documents that just kind of are waiting in part for reviews and part for implementation issues you know we just need to decide if we\u0027re going to release these or what we\u0027re holding the back for in particular so with that is the setup will kind of take these things one at a time Antoine is going to jump in and talk about each document as we go along here say with these documents what their status is from the chairs point of view and then we\u0027ll look for comments or questions from anyone in the room about the documents so we can decide you know what we really think our next step is and the first one up here is the change poll document so Antoine over to you yes the change bulldog I think the G cares think that this is actually ready the last time we talked about this was that we needed another review and we needed some implementation I believe that it was Jack and let\u0027s see Jody I think and said that they wouldn\u0027t they intended to implement so the question is actually to the authors what do they think about status is there anybody in the room oh yeah no Jim\u0027s coming to the pink box yeah it\u0027s Jim gold from Verisign so yeah I can go ahead and talk to both the change poll and the allocation token the action item from the last working group session was to add the implementation information that Cal added for both drafts so now we have implementation status information from new star and Verisign for both these drafts and we feel like it\u0027s ready both of them for our last call okay so they\u0027re both ready for the working good do you need about a revision of the document for that say there again you need a lot of revision of the documents for that no now we went ahead and updated it recently counted and so they\u0027re both okay so will you make a request for working last poll on the mailing list okay yes then we can move these along is there anyone who wants to object in any way to working group last call at this point okay then that actually takes care of two of them I don\u0027t know if you want to say anything else about the allocate Antoine but if not you can move on to the DNS operator yeah well the of course the usual request I want to make to the work and is that even during working group last call we need we need review and we need we need people to speak up and say that they approve the document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "it\u0027s so it\u0027s not there\u0027s no silent yeah just to emphasize that point Antoine and I have talked about this and you know I in in this group in particular we\u0027d really very much like to have you know three to five people who acknowledge that a document should move forward who are not the authors of the document which can make things a little interesting for us sometimes because there aren\u0027t that many people who keep up with all of the documents that\u0027s why we say three to five but you know please says as always you know even if you don\u0027t have any comments please do take a look at something and indicate your support for moving it forward just so that we know that we have some sense of consensus from the working group on the mailing list the usual IETF way of doing that is just sending a plus-one when someone asks for a support for a document as your message body so please just keep that in mind antwuan that gives so the next document is the penis operator to our our protocol our deadline on the on the milestone list is is in the future for this one but it\u0027s been silent now for I think a few months already the chair thing that this document needs some more external review apart from the author\u0027s I must admit that I need to do another review as well I\u0027ve requested some changes that I still need to verify they they if the text was was correct but I think this one is one that will stay in the queue the the deadline is not there yet but I think it the only thing it needs is some more specific review apart from the authors and if that assessment is correct or not correct I would like that here to hear it from the room so we have Jim coming to the microphone again yes you can go from Verisign yeah so I did a recent review of this draft and I have a concern related to the fact that the trust relationship between the DNS operator and in this case the registry is not addressed in this particular draft I think that\u0027s the big problem here because if you did have trust between the dns operator and the registry you just use EPP and the existing DNS SEC extension RFC 5910 to do what needs to be done so here this an alternative to use of EPP and again the trust relationship has not been addressed so I don\u0027t really see this going anywhere now I sort of agreed so my thinking about shortcuts in this document that needs to be discussed properly yeah and I will let me put myself in the queue and speaking as an "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:14",
    "text": "individual not as as chair I really do need to agree with Jim golden on this particular point for this document I appreciate that the document works certainly we have Jacques Latour from from Serie as a ccTLD is actively working on this and built an implementation I believe the folks from the Czech Republic are doing it too so I think they actually do have two implementations of it the you know it it really is interesting in that it works in that context but it really is an issue for gTLDs for exactly the reason that Jim Gould was pointing at so you know it\u0027s difficult I know for me to support this document and I think without not trying to put too many words and in Jim\u0027s mouth from Verisign but he\u0027s saying the same thing he\u0027s just sort of in an awkward place I don\u0027t see us being an implementer of this document and that\u0027ll be kind of an issue so Roger is next in the queue we hi this Roger yeah besides the I mean the document does come out and say we\u0027re not going to talk about this in the document which yeah I think is an issue the other big issue that we have as a registrar is when registrar customer information gets changed outside of the registrar loop it becomes an issue and I know that this draft tries to do that there tries to handle it by saying it can be done by registry or registrar but the big issue is is communication back to the registrar so that they have the most current information because we will be the one speaking to the registrar when something goes wrong so it\u0027s one of the facts that yes the the security issue is big but the I also think that that loop has to be figured out as well as how does that get communicated all the way through the chain appropriately and as Jim mentioned I think that that we we have no intention today of of implementing this so if it changes I don\u0027t know but today we do not so so we actually don\u0027t have the authors of this draft in the in the room here or listening to this discussion I know that they\u0027ve heard this kind of message before so I think you know perhaps this is more of a heads-up from the chairs to the working group that the milestone for this document is coming up it\u0027s in the future it\u0027s not in November it\u0027s it\u0027s early in 2018 you know I\u0027m sure we\u0027re going to get you know pressed at some point here and what to do with this document and I think the working group is going to have to come to a consensus about whether we\u0027re going to keep this on our to-do list or you know set it aside for not being standards track and let these guys submit it as their own informational document and just put it in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:14",
    "text": "extension registry in Ayana as an individual contribution might be the way to go so it\u0027s more of a status question for this working group to be thinking about okay I don\u0027t see any other hands or anything else in the room Antoine so back to the and we\u0027ll move up to the bundling discussion which is actually more to what you just said this is a document that tries to standardize a I have an enormous echo at the moment so please forgive me if I speak very slowly and I hear myself back in the mic so after the bundling both and some more discussion it was discovered that doing the Puntland could be done in three different ways and this resulting draft only talks about one of these options to do bundling options which the chairs consider yes he\u0027ll a standard in the way that we want and standardize things in in a way of you know you only have one way to do things that being said this is a good documentation how mostly some of the Asian of registries mostly CMake and I think some others too are doing bundling at the moment so there is justification for documenting this but we believe this will not be a one standard fits all so a suggestion is to make this document informational and then just register the registry and we can move it off our list in that way unless variant of course objection to that and this is the standard way of doing these so is there any discussion in the room are there any other things so one of the authors is up here at the mic John King is in the big box here yeah my name is Ian cameo but one of the courser for Donnelly trungpa you mentioned that ponding upon discussion also about upon Ian powerful pick up on but this kind of panel in strategy registration level is another matter with yes level of openness so this is different the as immigrants the different issue so for this kind of funneling in Seneca we have we have a planner for many many "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:15",
    "text": "years especially for see a Chinese community see we have our organization called a CDN see Chinese ami name consortium so in Kony\u0027s as Tina Cassini Cote Dominica HK k RC and Natasha so we have them so so main pretty simple document is a document that has already adopted by City and say for many years so already a lot of practice also a cynic and teri info also already implemented so in future icing a cigar more more registry will embrace this document thank you I must say that I don\u0027t don\u0027t disagree with the fact that it\u0027s a good extension or that it is well implemented at the moment in in in cyanic the discussion is what if oops I think we lost Antoine okay I think he was going to the statement that he was going to make is it\u0027s partly about the status of the document it may be that this is not appropriate for a standard strike doctrine which is really the question for us to think about now we have a queue lining up so let\u0027s just run through the queue you can stay here and then we\u0027ll get the comments so Scott sure Scott on back one thing I\u0027d like to see if we do decide to take this to information was the addition of an implementation status section if the document is intended to describe information about an existing implementation let\u0027s put that text into the document and describe your experiment your experience in implementing it and if you know of others who have implemented it add that to the text as well please so is that a suggestion you can you can take on board at an implementation section okay Lincoln one of another author of this internet draft and I have a question for Antoine I\u0027m just wondering what kind of other use case you can mentioned about the pendulum for us we try not only provide provider informational suggestion for the bundling requirements mostly we focus on the idea burns but we do know there are some kind of other been dueling requirements from non-ideal burns but I think our math ism or our technically solution can could be flexible to me to meet any other use cases so if you do have some other real use cases please provide to us and we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:15",
    "text": "can update our mechanism thank you am i right back yeah so to respond to that I believe there is discussion going on later in this session about some DNA issues that came up I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s another use case the only thing I know is that we couldn\u0027t agree during the bundling buff which sort of bundling DNS wise is actually the you know the one-size-fits-all way of doing bundling and that says to me that at the moment there is no clear consensus yet about a one-size-fits-all bundling solution and that makes me wonder you know perhaps there are no other abundant solutions coming up in the future but as long as we don\u0027t agree we don\u0027t have consensus that this is the only way that will work I don\u0027t think it should be a standard well and and that doesn\u0027t that doesn\u0027t there\u0027s no judgment on the legitimacy of this document because I think it\u0027s a good document it describes very well House en ik is doing bundling at the moment and I think it should be document it and it should be registered in registry I think for the standard trike dropped layer that the major change is about what kind of object what kind of item we need to bundle for the registration level so our draft only talk about the EPP extension registration level so maybe we can have the one set for all handling registration for the EPP layer if there is is another lose cases maybe not all the object or item want to be banded together we can set different items different object to be banned or not one by one that\u0027s all okay okay thank you did you want to say something edgewater no donation do please Edmund come here so building on I guess what what Ning was saying and I I think in general the try I mentioned this in on the mailing list as well I want to give it another kick in the can I guess bundling right now we were thinking about it as a very general concept the question is whether it is worthwhile perhaps perhaps one question is whether it\u0027s worthwhile if it\u0027s just focus on ID and variants as well because of the progress now both at ICANN and also at the the LGR the label generation rule sets which frames what we now can more definitely talk about in terms of ID and variants and it\u0027s a big component of EPP itself I mean it should be ultimately "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:15",
    "text": "growing to become a big component of standard EPP transactions so I think besides just thinking about whether this should you know we push this to information or not maybe the question is also if it is just focused on ID on variants for the cases of that that I talked about in LG RS and and and and idea and implementation guides and that I can is that worth worthwhile as a standard I think it should be okay thank you and we\u0027ll let Jim be the last one in the queue here then we\u0027ll try to tie up this conversation in the interest of time yes this is Jim Doyle from Verisign so and re reviewing the draft there are a few open items that I would see and I can post a list on this as a standard is first off there is no ability to be able to enable or disable the variants where you know if these were going to be they may be billable so in essence if you wanted the capability of allowing for variants to be enabled and disabled then you get into issues of grace periods and and other elements that are complex in nature because I\u0027m a co-author on a different proprietary extension as well as dealt with this the other is related to DNS SEC I don\u0027t think it\u0027s mentioned in there but is there an assumption related to use of the key data interface for DNS SEC those kinds of elements would need to be dealt with to make it into a true standard for at least this kind of bundling this kind of relationship so thank you I\u0027m gonna add a comment and then give the last word to - Antoine I think and III would say this discussion has been a success you know from my point of view as as as chair you know we\u0027ve been kind of looking at this document and wondering you know how to go forward and try to find a way to prompt some discussion I think the critical question here is standard versus informational and clearly we have some questions about what it means to be standard and some other things that need to be addressed so if you know John King and Ning sort of take on you know those questions and maybe we can drive some discussion now on the mailing list to try and deal with those issues so that we can we can move this forward okay thank you okay and then so over to you Antoine for a last word yeah so for this document in particular I don\u0027t have any more remarks I really like the discussion indeed you know there\u0027s still the discussion of the author\u0027s want to have this as a standards track and there are some others that have at least concerns about standards track the course issues have not been addressed yet and I think we should continue that discussion on the mailing list okay okay that brings us to the last couple of documents here related to the or so yes go ahead so these are the or documents they have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:16",
    "text": "a date in the well in the future as well these are of course the results of the documents that first were the reseller documents and there seem to be quite some interest in the reseller extensions but now that they\u0027ve turned into your generic organizational drafts the interest has sort of like slipped away I think that these documents needs another thorough review at least I need to make another review I know but it could also use some implementation status I think or some intention of implementation so I would like to ask the authors if they have any plans on pushing for review or adding more implementation if they are aware of anybody that is going to do some implementation on these documents yeah we have being in the nap box up here yeah this seasoning we are trying to update our hog drafts and to add implementation Staters section section and you know these draft are changed from reseller draft and for the reseller draft these drafts are implemented by cynic NuStar verasun maybe versa and actually for the open source TPP software but for the arc draft now the one really implemented it but cynic is planning to research on making a demo of the org draft and I\u0027m not sure we discuss with very song guys and you do have interest in implementing the base draft in future and maybe not here you can correct me and for this point I also want to call for more implementation about these hog draft and because we have a long discuss about the requirements from the reseller and requirement from extension of organization so we do believe that there there is meaningful to to do this kind of extension and make some implementation on this topic yeah so I want to put myself in the queue to butt behind Jim over to you yes Jim go from Verisign so I\u0027m a co-author on these drafts and we originally started with the reseller which is a little bit more controversial and I think that\u0027s the reason why you\u0027re getting comments on the list once we went something more generic it\u0027s less controversial less comments so what I had posted to the list was a proposal to have these graphs be implemented for what I\u0027ve considered low-hanging fruit which would be for our registrar information Verisign is built or has "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:18",
    "text": "created a proprietary extension that provides register informations for transfers I thought that this would be a perfect opportunity to be able to leverage these extensions be able to help registrar\u0027s in supporting transfers in a less on a copy that\u0027s less controversial so I guess I would be kind of looking at Roger here from GoDaddy whether or not GoDaddy would have interest and be able to support this extension for providing registrar information for transfers so while Roger is coming up to the queue I\u0027ll I\u0027ll step up to the mic so this is Jim Galvin just speaking for myself here and to add on to machine for Ning and and you know other authors more generally Rogers about to talk from I guess miss point of view as a registrar but are there are other significant gTLDs outside of the ccTLD context so registries that have or will implement this and are their registrar\u0027s to go with them to use it I mean I realize that you\u0027re using it in in CN neck and you so you\u0027ve got obviously registrar\u0027s and in China that are doing it but are there implementations that exist elsewhere in any other context yep you can\u0027t respond yet and then we\u0027ll go to Ryder please yeah all right from now we don\u0027t have we don\u0027t know anymore Lester our registrar implemented such kind of implementation yeah so please go Daddy you want to share some yeah this Roger again yeah I mean we we\u0027ve looked at this since the beginning and we\u0027ve never found a reason for us to actually implement this it\u0027s data that we\u0027re not sure needs to be should be I guess shared across the to third parties I guess so right now I guess Jim brought up a good question on transfers and stuff doesn\u0027t make sense I guess going I had to look at that in that context but right now we have no I thought of actually implementing this because we don\u0027t we don\u0027t see the the purpose and what what the system\u0027s going to gain out of this information so yeah I think there were repeatedly discussion on the requirements of this topic and from the original period and the reseller requirement were approved by the working group because we do you have real requirement from NuStar one of our proxy and who have a lot of resellers and their resellers wanna show their information on our Whois database yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:20",
    "text": "that\u0027s the real requirement but when we do the draft on this topic and people discuss that why not make some general object extension not only focus on reseller and maybe in the future registrar and proxy privacy proxy can also reuse such kind of extension yeah okay I want to add myself in the queue to make a comment to I see we have Jody in the queue I\u0027m going to try to uh move Jody up I wasn\u0027t into as well and Jody go ahead I can everyone hear me yes we can all right I think I\u0027ve got an echo going but I was just gonna echo echo a Roger was saying that we really don\u0027t have a reason to implement this extension giving that information through the registry about our resellers is not something that we want to do or will be willing to do we consider that to be information that that\u0027s just not needed by the registry now I know that there isn\u0027t I can not a requirement but it\u0027s optional data to send to the registry who the reseller of record is and that is true that this could be used for that we just think that this is an overkill as far as providing all information about the reseller besides just the reseller name okay it and as far as a transfer I guess I\u0027d like to see what\u0027s what would how would this would be used for our transfers before I can make a decision or comment on that Thanks okay Thank You Jody so I\u0027ll just add a chairs comment and then over to Antoine for the last word here on this I think this this document also falls into kind of a similar category to the DNS operator and even the the bundling document there\u0027s there\u0027s a real question as to whether or not it should be a standard or an informational document and you know a standard does require you know much more broad applicability and broad implementation is really a requirement to be on the standards track so that\u0027s just an important consideration as we go forward as to how we meet that requirement and okay well before we go over to you Antoine\u0027s Scott stepped up into the queue so Scott go ahead Scott Hollenbeck here since when is implementation a requirement for progression to propose standard implementation is not required but I think broad applicability is is is really the key phrase that I was trying to get okay okay like I said I just sorry just minor process point there and if I could build on that yeah not just applicability but this notion of interest in consensus right the this that there has to be broad support for the concept and oh go "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:23",
    "text": "ahead Andy okay one more in the queue Antoine before you jump in again sorry any Newton so I really don\u0027t have a dog in this fight what really concerns me about the conversation is you have people saying I\u0027m not going to use it and that\u0027s being turned into don\u0027t do this and I don\u0027t I don\u0027t really like that that didn\u0027t sit well with me some people obviously we have some interest in it and if it\u0027s not harmful for us to do this I don\u0027t see what we shouldn\u0027t do it now whether it\u0027s informational standard I understand that argument but I don\u0027t see why there hasn\u0027t been an argument put forward yet saying this is bad so I don\u0027t think that stop this from going forward right now yeah thank you for that I certainly am NOT trying to say that it\u0027s bad I don\u0027t think that Antonia is either I\u0027ll let him speak for himself I actually haven\u0027t gotten a sense of people are saying it\u0027s bad I think people are reacting to whether or not it should be a standard and to speak more to add a little bit elaborate a little bit on Scots point I mean I use the phrase broad applicability this working group is in sort of the in odd place because there are only a few you know people who who participate in this group actively who are what I would call you know an important part of the industry players there are a lot of interested parties here in some of this work and that\u0027s a good thing and we should continue with that but I do find it a challenge as as chair to judge what consensus is and and I try to pay very careful attention to who actually is in support of something and who\u0027s not because it really does matter you know whether you\u0027re registry or registrar and how many of them there are you know there just aren\u0027t that many of us who are in this room and so I try to be really careful about that and fraud applicability is what matters to me I mean I appreciate that it\u0027s it\u0027s something which is very applicable to the folks at CN n-- ik and and and in china certainly you\u0027re you\u0027re using it then and it works for you but whether there\u0027s a use case outside of that context does worry me a little bit as chair and trying to judge consensus and yeah so we\u0027re running really short of time with two other presentations but go ahead and your IRIScan say you\u0027re up at the mic you might as well and then antoine gets last word here well i\u0027m andrew sullivan and like andy i guess i don\u0027t care a whole lot about although this process thing except that i recall that part of the reason a lot of this stuff got going was because people kept saying there\u0027s not a single place where all these extensions are written down and it\u0027s causing us problems so if this working group isn\u0027t going to do the work to produce you know one canonical set of the stuff that people think if you\u0027re gonna do one of these things here\u0027s how to do it then please point us to the place that can be done so that there\u0027s this consistency because the whole point of people that it was supposed to be extensible like not in a million trillion pieces right so that that I I think actually "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:24",
    "text": "there\u0027s there\u0027s a positive reason to prefer publishing the document if you\u0027ve got interested in implementers thanks yeah and we\u0027re agreeing with that that\u0027s what the that\u0027s what the extension registry is for and that\u0027s what it means to be informational is just to get in that list it\u0027s just not on the standard tract that\u0027s all okay do you want to say something thing on what you responded in only one or two sentence uh what am I feeling about the these things make me a little confused because I\u0027m not sure whether when we make conclusion about which kind of draft are adopted by our working group it we repeatedly discuss each time about this draft should be do should be adopted by working group or not Arredondo we use some energy to discuss that every time we can we may have newcomers and newcomers may be judging us this draft we do not use and do not need use our our working group energy to make it know every time we do really need to discuss it I\u0027m not sure and because we do the E\u0027s used our energy for years make reseller draft and based on the working group discussion output or conclusion we we we modify the reseller draft to to the general organization draft and somebody stand up and tell us these things doesn\u0027t make sense I\u0027m labor confused Thanks yes some closing remarks and these are personal comments were first as you know I\u0027m Dutch so I\u0027m very blunt I find it very interesting to hear from registrar\u0027s when we were discussing the DNS operator to our protocol they say you know the registrar should always be in the middle of the data stream and they should always be aware of any information that\u0027s going to be used for registrations so there the register says okay we\u0027re willing to play this middle row where it comes to data that guy has to go to the registry and for this old document where the registry has some need for specific information or perhaps even in the benefits of the registrant to have this information in the registry the Registrar says well we\u0027re not interested in this sort of information work because perhaps we can do there can be some things be done with this data that is not in our interest I find that a bit contradiction Airy to each other and it\u0027s it\u0027s a nice discussion I think that this document has progressed to a way of being a generic organizational extension that it can be used for many more things than the reseller "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:27",
    "text": "extension that it originally was and so I think it\u0027s in a state now where it can be a standard track documents and I think this document only needs some more review and some positively if you\u0027ll wait with that in mind not not it with the the old reseller extension in mind because that one was I agree to narrow to be established RAC documents so let\u0027s discuss this further on the list and have some push from the authors to get some more review okay I think that brings us to the end of the milestone review we are running over time but the time really is ours so I\u0027m gonna allow the two presentations here to to go on and so Andy wants to come back and and talk about his our DAP JCR document let me get your slides up here for you alright so I think this came up at the last IETF Mario brought up he came to the mic and said something about schemas or ways of formalizing the JSON in our DAP and I\u0027d actually worked on a draft that it expired six months previous to that and for some reason I had dropped the whole idea but since he brought it up I thought it was a good idea and I was encouraged to update the draft next slide please so our app uses JSON and one of the problems is that the draft that you know there\u0027s several our drafts but the one that actually describes the JSON is very long draft what makes it extremely long is the fact that all that JSON is described in prose and one of the problems that we ran into when we were doing the going through the whole RFC process and there was the you know the weirds interrupt our mailing list and there we had all those sessions in the trauma room where people were trying to get there there are def implemented there were a lot of misinterpretations about what some of that meant so that was it was kind of a problem but we still today don\u0027t have any form you know we work through it but we don\u0027t have any formalism for for what we describe there so this can make testing things and even you know developing the sock the software a little difficult next slide please so this draft is an attempt to take what\u0027s in in the RFC and actually create a formal syntax for that JSON there so it uses this thing called JSON content rules which is something I\u0027ve been working on for a while along with Pete Cordell "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:28",
    "text": "and basically JCR is a what you would call it data definition language or schema language for json it\u0027s very similar to XML schema or actually more it\u0027s more akin to actually relax in G for XML it\u0027s concise more concise than pro so once people know how to read it it\u0027s easier for them to read the other thing about this is that for a lot of people who aren\u0027t native to English reading all those pros can sometimes be a little it\u0027s not the easiest thing in the world so when you have a formal syntax it makes it easier for them to understand what\u0027s going on next slide please so why do so I will I will admit I have looked at a lot of the uses of JSON I\u0027ve looked at a lot of the RFC\u0027s that we\u0027ve published in the IETF and to be honest the vast majority of them do not need this type of thing in in most cases the way we use JSON especially in the IETF it\u0027s very simple and putting some sort of formal data definition language in there would probably make it worse not better that being said our DAP is not in that case in that category our tap has very complex very extensive use of JSON where we have a lot of nested objects we have a lot of objects get reused all over the place so it\u0027s it is not in that that same category there\u0027s actual good candidate for a DDL this is a quote actually when we were going we were went to the RFC process we got the IETF last call feedback and this is what Tim Bray said Tim Bray is not a very big fan of DD l\u0027s but he actually said you know this is a good case this is a good candidate for it so next slide please just a little bit about JCR here JCR is is actually a superset of json so if you\u0027re going to read json you it\u0027s easy to kind of come into what JCR is and we have we actually looked at and we put features in there to try to help people who are implementing software create compatibility kits and test Suites so in the first box up here we have actual actual JSON snippet from RFC 7159 and the second box is actually the JCR which is basically saying you know the first the the first eye the first member there is a string the second one\u0027s an integer that starts with zero to infinity and so forth and then we continue abstracting it by the time you get down to the the green box this is what you could use for testing you can say for this particular use case make sure that this this rule has a specific value and this other rule has a specific value so I don\u0027t go into the full these details of what JCR is but that\u0027s that\u0027s essentially what it\u0027s about next slide please so where am i with the JCR for our tap graph at the moment I\u0027m collecting feedback Mario had a lot of comments and someone else had a lot of comments on the mailing list it was all "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:29",
    "text": "very positive and basically showing me that I hadn\u0027t quite read the our tap JSON correctly or there were things I hadn\u0027t put into the JCR which is kind of interesting since I\u0027m the author of the art app JSON draft RFC so there again it\u0027s very complex and so there\u0027s a lot of stuff you can miss in there there\u0027s an art app plan I have called Nick info it\u0027s a command line client and what I want to do next is I want to take the JCR that we have and apply it to that so that way people can download can download that it already has some some other slight conformance stuff that\u0027ll do for our tap but this will actually allow it to more formally check the JSON so I\u0027m going to I\u0027m going to try to do that and that will help people who are implementing servers to get a pretty good feedback the other thing is next year at Aaron we are looking at expanding our internet routing registry and one of the things we want to do is throw routing route objects into our tap as well and so we\u0027re gonna be writing a bunch of extensions and to do that as opposed to doing more lengthy drafts that have a bunch of pros in there we\u0027re actually in a look at using JCR for this we already use it for doing inter-rir transfers between all the rars so it\u0027s not something we it\u0027s it\u0027s getting it\u0027s getting use so anyway questions comments done I am Mario Fredo from registered OTT and I\u0027m you know they are in for I\u0027m following another approach based on the json schema honestly i\u0027m i say i must say that just some country rules are better than the jesus schema because are more compact compact and because there are they are more compliant to more naturally complain to to the way to the style RFC\u0027s are written but i see some some issues in the implementation in the in the use of jesse are to describe formally the old Enola rest service one issues is about the deluxe of a description of the requests and the relationship between requests and responses that as far as I know it is working in currently in UCR and and the second issue is about the the number of implementation supporting Jesse are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:31",
    "text": "currently I think there are very few implementations about Jesse are we respect to the implementation the number implementation about the Jesus schema so I\u0027m not a fan of Jesus keema but when I try to find a a data definition language of JSON based rest services I found a lot of materials about Jesus keema and libraries examples tutorials and quite nothing about Jessie are so III I was oriented to to use it you so schema to describe the adapt responses and records yeah so let me address that the first part about the things that Jason schema does with meta schemas and so forth that was never a goal of JCR the way you know art app says this query gets this object is an RFC not not some other means so yeah there\u0027s a lot of things at jason schema attempts to solve that JCR is just was never designed for was never was never what they intended to do jason schema is a much larger community I will admit much larger and because it\u0027s in JSON there there are implementations are a little easier to do but there are also a lot of problems with it they continue to iterate as well and I\u0027m not saying that one\u0027s better than the other the it\u0027s just that you know I in in my opinion I\u0027ve read JSON schema I\u0027ve attempted to use it I always I always find something I don\u0027t like about it and that\u0027s why we went down this whole JCR route to begin with when it comes to what we want to do what we want to say in the IETF about whether this is done in JCR or json schema or whatnot i don\u0027t know what the correct answer to that is the one of the things and i don\u0027t know if if there is a correct answer i think that\u0027s a better way of putting it it would be interesting if we had something published in json schema as well to describe what our dap is doing here and that might be both may be beneficial not just one so yes Scott Scott Hollenbeck so generally I like this approach which is one of the reasons that when we did EPP I used XML schema because it gives you a nice automated way of validating certain things but I didn\u0027t have a question so the RDF JC document depends on your generic JCR document correct mm-hmm all right are you suggesting that the working group eventually adopt both because we can\u0027t do the are DAP one without the JCR one existing that\u0027s a good question and I don\u0027t have a good "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:31",
    "text": "answer to that either all right and so then the comment I\u0027m not so sure that this working group is the right place for the generic JCR document to be developed that that may be true as well the I don\u0027t know where the right place is what\u0027s like you just kind of said yourself I think would you say I didn\u0027t um well I would probably send it off to the dispatch group and let them sort it out honestly but I mean so there is no official IETF or any state SPO has something that describes JSON so we\u0027re back to doing things and prose if we\u0027re just gonna keep punting this around the to be honest you know Mike JC our co-author and I have have discussed whether it\u0027s even worth the time to you can doing this in the IETF the and it\u0027s you know it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s an important question yeah I don\u0027t have an answer to where this would live so just one work there\u0027s a working group J map which deals with chasing mail access maybe they you could sneak it in there I don\u0027t see why you would punt it from one application to another that okay I want to close the queue up there except I see our Area Director standing if he wants to insert himself at any point er wait to the end that\u0027ll be fine although I next in line I\u0027ll go at the end thanks matthew Miller so when it comes to various ways of describing JSON the best that I think is actually making some tracks right now is not necessarily specific to JSON but is cuddle the the concise data definition language the tappety and C or I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s worth trying well this work isn\u0027t going to happen in the JSON this working group because it\u0027s going to shut down once the document gets published I don\u0027t know that there\u0027s any place else that could take this on or take on JSON schema I honestly think your best bet is to look at out adapting to using cuddle so I really don\u0027t like that answer because that\u0027s a not JSON and they had different they have different things they\u0027re doing in there the the other thing is is that it the you know the one of the the the when they started that work they actually cited the JCR draft as where they got some of their ideas from we\u0027ve iterated on this since they did their their initial their initial work and this is much the things we\u0027ve done in JC are much more specific to JSON than what you can do with CD do you guys calling it cuddle I was at it yes that\u0027s cute that\u0027s well I mean I understand all that but I mean do you have you have you talked to anybody else about trying to move that move JCR forward you know it\u0027s one of those projects that that I work on you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:32",
    "text": "from time to time I haven\u0027t had to do it full-time the no to be honest I haven\u0027t talked in the JSON working group about this for a while I remember yeah it\u0027s been a while the the and and we have gotten feedback from there and that a lot of that feedback has been incorporated into the current draft whether what the IETF does with that I don\u0027t know like I said I don\u0027t have the answer to that I don\u0027t think cuddle is a good is me rephrase that I don\u0027t think cuddle is necessarily the right solution for people who are doing complex JSON because first off its not JSON itself it\u0027s talking about C bore the and the other thing I want to be very careful about is I don\u0027t really I know the JSON schema people also have internet drafts and I I\u0027m on their mailing list but I and they talk about revising it and I don\u0027t know when they\u0027re gonna do that I don\u0027t want to get into this little fight with them either so I\u0027m kind of trying to avoid a lot of politics I don\u0027t envy the position just I\u0027m just pointing out that there was definitely traction happening with cuddle C bar is yeah II a super set of JSON yeah but people may also make that argument with yang as well so well yeah okay I want to be careful not to have a long scale translate right solution here a tick to questions we are a little short on time in getting shorter here um you know Tim results ripens you see i just want i wanna keep this very short i\u0027m not aware of all the other efforts in this area but what i really like about this is that it\u0027s you know easy to understand and and it\u0027s not trying to solve everything in the world to me that\u0027s really useful if you just want to have a quick clarification of you know whatever you\u0027re specifying so i think this is useful were okay thank you and now down to our area director yeah adam roadside i wanted to clarify what i thought i heard earlier were you proposing that the JCR base document actually be taken on in this working group no I never said that the the I said I don\u0027t have an answer for that the like I said right now specific to the are dat version of this I\u0027m trying to collect feedback see if it\u0027s even useful the I\u0027m my mindset is a much more insured in getting work done than trying to sit there and play with drafts so okay and I\u0027m sympathetic to that it\u0027s one to make sure I mean if that were the rose I was going to point out some reasons that shouldn\u0027t happen but if that\u0027s not what you\u0027re proposing I\u0027m good with y\u0027all playing around with this sort of individual I think we probably want to have a story for how we would get whatever your underlying technology is pushed through to an RFC before you start putting working group drafts on top of it yeah and there there may be other answers to that too so maybe I should talk to you about that afterwards okay I\u0027m busy after at some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:32",
    "text": "point I won\u0027t be able to cope with you so we can have a conversation on that right okay thank you we have one more next up here Mario okay let me get your slides up here for you hello everybody I\u0027m Mario Fredo from registered OTT and this presentation I talk about three adapt draft and namely shorten paging partial response and reverse research this next the three drafts are quite recent the first draft is at its second version and the first version was submitted on last May next please the first two draft shares the same goal to bring best operation practices in rest services design in into a DAPA we all know that rest services should offer capabilities for result filtering sorting paging and sub setting for many reasons minimize the traffic on the net speed up response time improve the precision of the query and obtain more reliable results decrease the load of the serve and equity processing and spend less CPU time on a memory on the client next please despite this good principle in rest service designed the current status of adapt shows some inefficiencies because search query can return larger result set and the result set can be truncated according to the survey limits but other blocks of result filtering sorting and paging capabilities in fact you cannot restrict result set by adding for the search condition you can obtain in the response the total number or Jets found and you cannot specify possible sorta criteria to have the most relevant object at the beginning on the result set that to avoid the truncation or relevant results besides you cannot scroll this upset when the result set is truncated and finally service can only provide full responses "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:33",
    "text": "next please to overcome these inefficiencies the sorting a paging a draft presents four new parameters counter a boolean value that allows to obtain and response the total number objects found that do due to the truncation can be different from the number of returned objets sort by that is a string value that allows to specify sort order for result set and the limit and offset the that allows to specify what portion of the entire data set must be returned limit and offset together implement implement result set pagination new properties in the response are consequently added fetching count is reporting the response when the count parameter is put in the query string and this set to true value and paging links that provide the ready-made reference to the next page of the result set when the truncation takes place service returning paging links and paging count properties must include the appropriate string in the arab conformance array and this has been proposed it has been proposed a new a different approach to the pagination by using cards or culture is an OPA you are el-sayf string representing a logical pointed to the first result of next page the proposal has been made by Brian Montfort from Google next please these in the desolated I reported the two samples of the response including paging countin pudgy links based on offset in the first example they and the result set is truncated and the pudgy links reports links linked to the next page of the results set and the second example is diversion or the patient links property that uses the cards or option next please but what are the pros and the cons of offset and the cards or based pagination offset pagination is supported natively natively by major relational DBMS is a most popular and no secret that databases so it\u0027s very easy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:34",
    "text": "to implement it provides mass maximum flexibility but does not scale well in case of huge result sets I think that here the the the limits of over which to consider result assert a huge is one hundred thousand records it may return in unconscious and pages when data are very frequently updated but I think that this is not the case of registration data cause based precision ation also known as key set pagination or the seek method scales well in case of huge result sets but is difficult to implement because it is not actively supported by the VM masses it requires at least one key field it needs that all comparison it sort operation had to be reverted if a server want to implement also backward pagination it arises the further issues when objects aggregate information coming from different possible different data sources like entities that maps information belonging to different entity rules it\u0027s not flexible because it does not allow to sort by Anik any field and paginate the results because the sorting has to be made on the key field it does not allow to skip pages because pages I up to be scroll at the sequentially starting from the initial page it could also be considered impractical because time needed to be the current page could be much higher than the scrolling time needed by the offset pagination and this is true especially when the object returns object present presents a lot of multivalued the properties and one question is if Maya rub-a-dub survey usually deal with huge result set so in certain cases is not worth implementing this method next please the second draft is about partial response partial response is a simple idea that has been quite has been around for quite a long time in the rest service design the idea is that instead of returning the responsive world data fields only a subset is returned we can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:37",
    "text": "distinguish two approaches to the implementation of partial a partial response the first approach that we can call the fields approach is used by leading REST API providers and according to it the client declare explicitly the data fields to obtaining the response the second approach that we can call fields is used in digital libraries and bibliographic catalogs and according to declare the client declares a name identifying a several predefined set of data fields what are the characteristics of the two approaches of fields provides maximum flexibility because clients can specify exactly the fields they need it\u0027s not easy to implement because the fields have to be declared according to a given syntax and the presence of arrays and de ponerse the objects may complicate both for syntax definition consequently the server processing of the query it does not facilitate interoperability because clients should perfectly know the stretch of the return and object to avoid the declaration on him invalid the list of fields finally it rises additional issues according to several optimization because it may happen that clients could request unauthorized fields and service should define a strategy to provide a response to return an error or to return a response in your in the unauthorized fields the latter approach is legs flex roller but do added up a user really need the maximum flexibility probably no because I think that other users quite always request that the same set of strongly related data fields it can be easily implemented and it facilitates interoperability because the server can define some basic field sets with which if known previously by the client can increase the probability to get valid the responses finally it fits better several tourism and in here the service can operate in two ways not not exclusive multiaxial is exclusive the list of fees for each set can be different according to the access "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:37",
    "text": "levels and some field sets could be able to be available only to some users next please so the posture response draft introduces one new parameter field set that is a string value in define a predefined set of fields to facilitate interval interoperability we think that some values are required the ID that contains only the object class-name field and the field identifying the object it can be used when the kind wants to obtain only a collection of object identifiers brief it contains the fields that can be included in a short response it can be used when the client is requesting for a set of properties which gives only a basic knowledge of each object and the full that contains all the information the server can provide for a foreign object additional conduct consideration can be made the brief and full field set should be defined according to the arches levels service may implement any other additional fit set and the service should also define a default to fill set next please I just need to ask if it\u0027s possible to to move this along a little bit I know we kind of cut you a little bit short on time but I see you\u0027ve got still like five slides to go and we\u0027re cutting into our working session okay if you I can stop here if you want oh I moved frequent moves live yeah we could just move try to move yeah okay the last the last draft is about rebus search you know all that robot services provided my many web application and the users through these service users can find domain names starting from the owner details but currently registered already performer alert searches because they provide the register with domain names related to contact main server and the NSS the NSS Aki\u0027s reason possible reason to these requests are the loss of synchronization between registrar data registry data and the need of such data to perform but a PP updates next please in the past has been there has been some possible objection to the implementation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:40",
    "text": "or reverse reasonable search engine general one is potentially privacy risks but I can itself points out that reverse which is allowed when it is driven by some permissible purposes it provides adequate security policies and the other and aldub provide these security policies because it relies on features available in other layers the second concern has been about impact on server processing but are the kerreri support searches and the impact above standard that the researchers came can be is absolutely similar and can be mitigated by several opting a doc policies next so am the draft proposes new segments part two of the endpoint domains entity handle entity F and the search parties are the same as specified in RFC 74 82 and new parameters is also proposed and tadaryl that allowed to restrict results to a specific entity role since in are the penta T\u0027s are in relationship with all searchable objects it is possible to evaluate this tension to other parts next skip skip no no the last slide I think that at some point of discussion in within the working group with regards to the sorting and paging I\u0027ll shoot the sorting properties be define is a national registry appropriate all might new parameters work without use of a relational DBMS should our top specification aboard both offset and culture parameters and elect operators to implement pagination cordeen to their needs to the user access levels resubmit queries and Weber gas to reverse a search should reverse cells should be based on other anti details should reverse er should be based based ended to the other types of searches that\u0027s all so just be clear you\u0027re not asking for at this time or are you are you\u0027re not asking for working with adoption or anything like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:41",
    "text": "that you\u0027re just bringing this to the attention to the working group yes okay all right so I mean I just wanted to add then from from my own point of view you know speaking as chair I think this is is interesting and important stuff I do think this working group is at least the mailing list is an appropriate place to discuss this that\u0027s why we you know wanted to go along with this presentation being here and getting some discussion but you know what we do with it going forward is is kind of open at the moment so any comes from anyone but and you go ahead yeah Andy Newton so my first comment is and I\u0027m sorry I haven\u0027t had a chance to read all I read some of it and I didn\u0027t I didn\u0027t realize how many drafts you had but it all looks very interesting I think before we would do anything like this on either three of the drafts we\u0027d want the OAuth open ID connect stuff in first because a lot of this stuff is stuff that in general the probably the general public wouldn\u0027t be wouldn\u0027t be doing we would want someone authorized to do so that if the working group has to take on this work I think it would be important for the worker to do prior to prioritize the OAuth stuff first secondly you wanna get this conversation is working about what\u0027s supposed to be information on what\u0027s supposed to be standard or whatnot this is all very foundational work so I do think this is the right place with the working group and it should be done here if Mario wants to take it forward it\u0027s gonna be a lot of work but I do think this would be standard track work Scott Hollenbeck and there\u0027s a corollary to what Andrew mentioned earlier in the context of EPP right now we\u0027re not well-suited to take on new work I know I\u0027ve been trying to get a particular draft adopted or go at least have the question posed to the group now for quite some time and I\u0027m continually told that we need to clear our plate a little bit all right so here\u0027s some encouragement folks clear your plate because our DAP is moving into production as we speak we are going to encounter more and more challenges like this as we work to solve real problems and if this working group is not ready to take on you know the questions associated with these problems in the end and willing to put some answers to paper we\u0027re going to get bypassed I mean I thought myself about just saying you know forget this working group and I\u0027m gonna go have a little chat with the ad about doing an ad sponsored draft because I\u0027ve got operational problems to solve alright so please let\u0027s get our place cleared let\u0027s think about some of these our DAP focus documents and let\u0027s get some answers out there yeah and speaking is chair and and not and and I have not obviously coordinated us with Antoine I mean to me one of the important questions about what this group does or doesn\u0027t take on is the amount of work that\u0027s involved I mean this is looking like it could be you know substantial "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:39:43",
    "text": "that have worked and I suspect that it probably is more appropriate it may or may not be an appropriate document for this group to take on you know we really had created this working group to deal with extensions EPP and our DAP extensions and this feels like it might be a little more than that so it\u0027s a question worth considering and I\u0027m sure when the time comes our ad will have an opinion about that too so it might end up being something that spun off and can be dealt with separately just for that reason so okay I you said you got your comments and you\u0027re satisfied for now I should say that I think that that there are some other implementers that are asking me about these drafts especially sorting and paging draft brahma mahad is it\u0027s only an example of people that are implementing the adapt servers so I think that this topic should be a should be defining the if if we can think that that they are interesting but it\u0027s only my opinion is not I think that this idea should be shared by the entire working group Scot Hollenbeck I\u0027m sorry I forgot Andrew had mentioned something that I brought up in the chat about the federated authentication document - eventually I do intend to request that the working group consider adopting that document but there\u0027s one thing in particular that\u0027s holding me back on that right now and that\u0027s that the document talks about this notion of acceptable acceptable query purposes right and at least in the gTLD space that is very policy dependent and the policy work that\u0027s touching on this question of query purpose is still very much a work in progress so it may this may be a question that\u0027s better queued up for discussion in London because I\u0027m certainly hoping that you know six months from now or five months for now whatever it is that at least in the ICANN space some of those questions will have been asked and answered and maybe I\u0027ll have a better sense of where that conversation went and I have a document in a slightly better State and I honestly I put the the the the point of Ravel to ease and permissible purposes of queries because I found I found the the dystopic tree treated in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:49",
    "text": "the icon document but my my idea when i i i i wrote the the the draft and implemented these on dot IT public test server was to give an answer to the dot ID registrar\u0027s asking for the list of domains related to contacts unrelated to taking your contacts or related to resistance because so a III have a photo - to this solution but I\u0027m not an expert of query purposes about Ravel about the reason about reverse weasel Roger yeah this Roger I\u0027ve got a little optimistic on the five months and maybe London but I had purpose is definitely being talked about so hopefully we do get to that spot and then your future it was interesting that I actually came up here to say something and in your last comment just made me think about that but a from a registrar standpoint I don\u0027t really see I mean see this as being useful for a registrar I think it\u0027s interesting but I mean we would definitely not implement this on our our DAP implementation but your point about registrar\u0027s asking you for a list like this I don\u0027t know I I just don\u0027t see registrar\u0027s being all that interested in this but I didn\u0027t see it from a registries perspective of a registrar asking now I don\u0027t think we would but that\u0027s that\u0027s a different point at dot ID we have an amount of medium small registers losing their data or trusting the registry about their data so if they want to - some - to perform some operations they they asks they ask the registry - to give the data to provide the data to to perform this operation thank I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s it\u0027s only a case of dot eighty or the similar to other environment this is all this from is I want to second you the most requests we get from our registrar\u0027s is actually a way to download lists of which domains there was yes for which contacts they are responsible for you you would guess that they have a database of that but you know so that\u0027s better I get we the first credit if I be the Registrar the first or second "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:45:50",
    "text": "question I get is when will we have lists and EPP for example I looked at the draft submitted by gem school about bug updates so the question was how can I submit this this operation if I cannot have the data to perform this operation the list of domains the list of net service so the use cases that were just cited seem to be more appropriate for EPP than our tap they\u0027re not okay so we were for those remotely we just sort of cut off by some discussion in the room about we don\u0027t want listen EPP so that\u0027s why this is in our tap of appropriate thing so okay okay you don\u0027t all right so that brings us to a discussion about interim eating feedback um oh uh Oh Cody was in the queue and he took himself out of the queue okay so I got that the interim eating was yours Roger so you want to come up to the pink box here and say a few words about how that went and well the one that was successful Roderick and so I think we\u0027ve had three now for the first two were very productive I think that it was maybe the content that was appropriate for everyone I don\u0027t know that interested the last one we got zero participation there was four or five was on the call but it was those that arranged the call so we did it we did discuss things uh and we made decisions for everybody so I\u0027m glad everybody attended now I think a interim meeting has worked out well on the prior this last one again was not attended well but I think it was more content the fee document has been worked quite well so I I think people are starting to lose the interest on discussing those last little details to get through so but again the the last meeting was not what was anticipated but again it\u0027s it\u0027s not I guess unrealistic for people not to show up when it starts to tail off so so my only comment I don\u0027t know if anybody had questions about the meetings here in general I just want to say I think the working group I think the interim meetings are working it certainly has helped to move along the couple of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:52",
    "text": "documents that Roger is impressing you know to to get done and in a good state as as to where we are and in theory the working group session that we would have had but doesn\u0027t look like we\u0027re going to have at the moment here would have done the same thing to help move along some new ideas so and end the validate document but you know I think we\u0027ll just continue down this path the the you know single purpose interim meetings are a good thing and working out really well for us so that\u0027s a good thing okay that brings us down to any other business and I have one thing that I wanted to put on the table but I\u0027ll reserve that for the end and I see Andy walking to the microphone so please go ahead yes so we I was wondering if we want to start thinking about some BCPs for our tap to things just recently happened that I think would be interesting as more people start spinning apart app servers one was someone started circulating a list of conformance issues with our tap and they were content they were like you know hey Scott you know the person who runs the server and you know Ford this email on and so that basically chain emails that were going on trying to get to the the people who were authoritative for the servers so we might want to consider like a BCP on putting something in the / help of how do you contact the people to actually operate the server the other one is we might want to have to visit the whole thing about putting HTTP and HTTPS URLs in the Ayana bootstrap files I run into some problems with my client people reporting they can\u0027t talk to certain registries because of TLS issues so like a lot of Mac\u0027s apparently ship an extremely old version of open SSL that doesn\u0027t talk newer TLS and so they can\u0027t end up talking to these our tap servers because they only list the HTTPS URL which is what we want them to do if they can do it but some people might want to drop back to doing an insecure just regular HTTP thing so that\u0027s also something might want to think about thank you for that that actually is a nice segue into what I wanted to mention but let me just see this any other comments or questions from the room in me to echo no speak another other business so please go ahead welcome my point can still wait till the end I\u0027m stefan-boltzmann ethnic as seen on TV no as seen on the mailing list as I\u0027ve been a discussion in DNS up about the possible registration of a dot Indianola local TLD on one of the point was a it was planned to edit in the wood onto delegated to a s11 to with the name on FC 75 35 explains why it has to be de "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:51:56",
    "text": "name on not NS record on one of the things that were mentioned was that currently I am now on the Verisign communicates about EPP for the management of the root zone and there is no way a PP to delegate a name with denimm we called only with NS records so the point was is it a good idea to create a new mapping or to extend the RC 57:31 mapping for domain name is it a good idea stupid idea it does it have to be a RFC or trust a local extension so commensal IDs our welcome interesting I actually was not aware of that discussion I cannot miss that detail and I see we have oak Scott you jumped in front of somebody who\u0027s trying to beat you there sorry alright so got all-america head yeah the long and short of is I think this is an interesting question it\u0027s one we should take up on the mailing list we should talk about it yeah thank you Kim Davies if the only use case is the one you presented I was suggest not working on it but if there\u0027s broader application then yes I I do think that our our mailing list is available for broad and open discussion about issues there really isn\u0027t any other home for any kind of registration related question or or discussion and we just have to see if there\u0027s traction for doing the work and then we get to examine whether or not it needs to be you know a milestone as part of this working group or or should be funneled to some other location which kind of brings me to the point that I wanted to bring up we\u0027ve had discussions in the past we have a couple of we have actually I think five documents and I\u0027m not even sure I could rattle them off off the top of my head pending adoption by this working group beginning with one Scott fondly referenced earlier in one of his comments at the microphone earlier however this working group its Charter is really is restricted to just EPP extensions and our dap extensions it it really is not within its charter to do slightly more broad-based documents related to registration in general however as part of the discussion that we had a year ago about adopting these documents when we had that whole concept set aside until we cleared our docket and our docket is clearing and we\u0027re becoming eligible to add new documents onto our list we have also again started the discussion with our Area Director about broadening our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:57",
    "text": "Charter just a little bit I think it\u0027s possible by just adding a sentence or two about additional things that we can work on and you know he is agreeable to that and so one of the things that we need to do in parallel with finishing the cleanup here over the next short couple of months on the documents we talked about earlier is to send a note to the mailing list and have a discussion about a little bit that we can add to our Charter to broaden it so we can take on some of these other topics and adopt these documents and you know our area director will be paying attention to that and will work with us to to get the right words that we can use and then we\u0027ll get our charter run through the approved process that it needs and then as these documents clear we can quickly adopt the other documents but we should be in a pretty good place here I think that you know before the London meaning we should have cleared off a number of documents and adopted a bunch of new documents and have new ongoing work that\u0027s happening I mean that\u0027s my goal here just speaking without actually coordinating specifically with Antwan about it but in general that that\u0027s a goal about moving stuff forward okay one less so that was my comment there let me just pause and see if anyone has any questions or comments about that before I move on to one last thing and not seeing anybody jumping up okay so Roger you one who had the two documents that you wanted to have a working session about we have totally usurped that time I do apologize for that but on the other hand I think we were having some really good discussion here and I really didn\u0027t want to want to set that aside it I think this is a good time to bring up the fact that the IETF does at this meeting they\u0027ve had it before it\u0027s been an experiment and it\u0027s been working out well they have a room that you can sign out to use for a working session there is a hollow room I think actually this meeting we - don\u0027t we yeah it\u0027s actually - meeting rooms this time so if you have an account on the on the wiki there\u0027s a way to go up and sign up and and and sign out the room for an hour and actually you can they actually encourage multiple people to sign out the room especially in the case of the larger one because that way you get you know cross communication but you can find a corner of the room to sit down and work so what I wanted to offer to you is if it rather than saying that we have totally given up on those working sessions if you want to look and see about signing out a room slot maybe we can have a little bit of a dialogue on the mailing list about finding a good time to sign it out for you can go look at some options pick something that works for you and and then you know try and work something out on the mailing list and see if we can pick a couple of those dot those two documents and pick up some work sessions for them otherwise we\u0027ll continue with our interim model and I\u0027ll give you a chance at this point here to comment and all of that thanks to miss Roger I think that\u0027s good to know I didn\u0027t realize that but it may be difficult to find "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:57:59",
    "text": "time but we can we can try that definitely I\u0027m going to try to promote the the next interim meeting then so that we can get on to these topics and and the the registry mapping topic will be a big one and a long one so I think once we get back and get beyond the holiday here I\u0027ll try to get an interim meeting set up at the beginning in December sometime that we can start working on it quickly so Alex me over one thing that came up in our ongoing our deaf implementation efforts is that the exact semantics of the search with the asterisk are a little bit unspecified any RCS so I\u0027m getting a lot of heat from our developers for not working with you guys correctly and getting the right language into the RFC\u0027s so I would appreciate if someone has time that we can maybe sort out a few of those unclear things regarding asterisk I think it takes about 15 minutes and I\u0027m up for like sitting together in a corner or something like that it would certainly help us getting our implementation forward okay let me just suggest that wants to talk about searching should please come on up here in the beginning and and talk to Alex and see if we can set that time up in fact actually those who want to continue with the working session might actually come up here at the end of the meeting and and touch base with Roger right away because maybe if you don\u0027t actually get a good group of traction you want to make time you might as well just go for an interim meeting it did not work that hard but let\u0027s see if we can get to or through people up here get some some traction to have that meeting and then one last thing before Scott talks if anybody has not signed the blue sheet and you want it please be sure to come on up here after this meeting is is about to be over and and sign Roger Scott it sorry Scott Holland but yeah Alex I think you owe your observation about that text correctly captures the confusion of the author in in trying to capture the working groups consensus on how that all worked which as in it\u0027s a complete mess but having said that I do have another internet draft out there that talks about doing searching using POSIX regular expressions which i think is very well specified and if that would potentially be a solution let\u0027s have a conversation about that as Jim Jessa okay any other business from the floor no okay well then I want to thank everyone this really has been you know an exceptionally good working group meeting for this working group over the past year I\u0027m really excited and we had some really good discussion and and I appreciate that I really do so thanks very much for that look forward to seeing more activity on the mailing list please if you want a working session with Roger come on up and and make that known and other than that were "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:00",
    "text": "adjourned blue sheets if you need them that\u0027s good to see you know sometimes it\u0027s all it matters right you "
  }
]