[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "sliced okay let\u0027s see if I can get the display to do the right thing here all right awesome yeah so I\u0027m looking at the slides apparently I left an extra slide in there that we\u0027ll just have to ignore as we go along guess that happens when you copy slides from one meeting to the next and you update them sometimes you don\u0027t update them as perfectly as one would like okay we are actually a couple of minutes after our start time so this is the registration protocols extensions working group I\u0027m Jim gallon and Antoine washer and who is remote and up there in the participants oh and now he\u0027s waving okay we can see you you want to speak for a moment let\u0027s see if you if your mic works yeah yes but barely it\u0027s actually quite low that\u0027s the volume in the room I don\u0027t think that\u0027s you I guess if mideco is listening if we could get the volume in the room adjusted that would be good if somebody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:04",
    "text": "wants to type that type you know at neig echo in the jabber room - that\u0027d be appreciated okay we\u0027ll just move on here this is the usual note well basically you know we get your firstborn child yes oh it is very yeah let me see if I can fix the projector here okay apparently a projector was in a strange mode but we got past that we\u0027re now up on the screen okay now we get to take your first foreign child if you don\u0027t like it you don\u0027t like us so don\u0027t misbehave unless you want us to have your child this is just a note which we\u0027ve always put in in our thing some working groups do this I know that other groups that you know have a lot of documents um you know like to just remind people about document reviews I mean we\u0027re a pretty small group close-knit but you know just to reminder in general you know moving forward and moving documents forward in specifications you know it really does help the people review documents and even just saying a plus-one I mean if you don\u0027t have any particular concerns or issues with a document it\u0027s always helpful to just say that acknowledge that you\u0027ve looked at it and have no objections when documents moving forward and for those who are document editors and authors you know it hopefully goes without saying but you know sure if you\u0027re going to put a document out there that you want people to look at please take the time to look at other people\u0027s documents too you can helps we have been having a little bit of an issue with document Shepards we kind of struggled with that a little bit here recently we do have three documents right now that are in the publication view and they all do have a document Shepard so we did finally get to get past it all but you know I do want to take an opportunity to encourage people and ask please that you you do think about doing that it\u0027s not necessarily a lot of work it does require the principal responsibilities are that you have to write the summary up that describes the document if you\u0027ve ever seen ISG announcements that explain that a document is now an IETF last call and it\u0027s on its agenda I mean you have to write those words that summary page that goes there the other thing that you have to do is when the document is first submitted to the IETF to the isg isg does its review and this is all tracked and it\u0027s it\u0027s all online in the data tracker but as they make comments and if they have questions and concerns you know we do look to the document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:04",
    "text": "Shepherd\u0027s to track all of that and respond to all of that and make sure to and on the one hand your job is to keep the editor of the document honest you know you have to make sure that all of the comments and such are addressed and all those concerns are taken care of so there\u0027s just a little bit of you know paying attention to the document over hopefully a short period of time and hopefully it never gets kicked back so the next slide this is the version of the two meeting side that we\u0027re not having I should have deleted this one this is the one the next slide slide five is really the two meeting slide that should be there we obviously had a session already on Monday was a working session we\u0027ll have a few minutes here in a bit to hear about that and then this is the second group second session working group session and I\u0027m sorry oh no actually comes up now I just I just remembered but it\u0027s also because we\u0027ve got to get all the way to the agenda here we\u0027re in the middle of welcome and introductions but I do need a jabber scribe and a note-taker anybody in particular willing to take notes and make sure that we get them can I look to our our usual suspect is not in the room or am I missing him oh you\u0027ll do knows for us I\u0027m sorry yes yeah thank you Oh Rick will do do notes and you can describe for us okay cows can describe for us so excellent thank you appreciate it okay so with that we\u0027ll jump right in here document status we had a document published since our last meeting yay for us uh-huh yeah it\u0027s a kind of a very very dramatic step for us we\u0027re kind of slow moving here on many things so but it was good to get this one finally out the door and done so that was a good thing they were labeled here as working group last call documents but these are the three documents the next set up here are all the documents that are currently in the publication queue we have the registration fees document and the change poll and allocation token so the thieves document has as a document shepherd Jim Gould I believe right and the change poll is Roger and allocation token is Patrick is he in the room okay so Patrick\u0027s not with us here today but that\u0027s or is easy online I don\u0027t see him online but that\u0027s okay does anybody want to say anything about the documents that are in the publication queue anybody have any words updates that you want to offer what the experience has been like so far so Jim go ahead yes Jim gold from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:06",
    "text": "Paris time so as a document Shepard for the fees I\u0027m just gonna wait for you to post the last update with my last couple one it\u0027s on there and then I\u0027ll go ahead and submit the write-up for it I have it ready to go this Roger and I do plan on getting in I think there were six or seven nits in there and I\u0027ll get those updated this coming week and getting published my other task this week is actually to get the shepherd initial review done on the change poll so that we can get schema validating and everything and the first comments back to you so you can start editing so yeah good thanks very much anything else from anyone I guess it\u0027s really you know you two are doing each other\u0027s documents there which is good that\u0027s the way it works Cal just a question from Antoine so these ones a past working group last call right yes their past working group last call they\u0027re all actually document shepherds are in progress doing their part to prepare the write-ups they have not actually I take it back I made a misstatement before because they have not actually been submitted to the iesg yet they were waiting for the document shepherds to to finish their write-ups and they\u0027re just some knits that they were going through with the editors and actually I think the change in allocation are waiting on the chairs to look at your first write-ups I think yeah so we\u0027ll get through those and get that out and so I expect it within the next week or so they will get into the is GQ and be handed up to Adam and that process will then start okay if that\u0027s all there is with that then we have a couple of documents to walk through here and talk about we have the validate document and Roger I believe you wanted to get up and talk about that yours you don\u0027t have slides for yours right that\u0027s right okay it\u0027s um this cabinet slides yeah I didn\u0027t have much to say on this except that there hasn\u0027t been a lot of comments on it but we do have implementation going in in the next month or so so I will be updating a doc with the implementation notes and any findings that we actually have so it\u0027ll be prior to the next meeting and I\u0027m hoping to actually by June ish that we actually have enough day doc and a full implementation done on it so for the nets for the validate document so any questions on validate yeah yeah "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:06",
    "text": "microphone please that\u0027s me I think just a question why is a domain name for the contact is called the TLD because EPP is not only for TLD well when you\u0027ve want to validate the contact you have to indicate for which domain you want the validation the example is a comma for instance yet comma on the XML attribute is his name that TLD should be now example it should be named domain not TLD because it\u0027s not always a TLD actually the TLD why because we can call under a registry system that supports multiple T\u0027s and we want to be able to tell them which TLD no it\u0027s a problem is using TLD instead of the multi-level domain because a domain a registration domain is not always a TLD two different ones so the name the domain name is is one attribute and the TLD is another oh I\u0027m sorry in the registry nothing holds Atsuko in zone so dismal collect okay I see what you\u0027re saying okay perfect thank you anything else on validate no okay registry mapping we did meet Monday to work on this overview probably half the time we just went over what the concept was and everything and the questions started out a little slow but it actually picked up quite quickly and some good conversations probably the two biggest things and I\u0027ve actually heard something since then as well is the the bootstrapping of it is I think Kel mentioned Tom Monday was how can we get this out what\u0027s the mechanism to get people to see it as soon as possible from a registrar standpoint it\u0027s nice to have when we have access to the SRS because then we can see any changes or anything but a real goal is to have it prior to accessing the SRS so we can determine if we actually want to support this TLV or not so or this zone however you want to call that but so one of the big topics and again nothing decided but something to think about is how can we get this out to people and I would say registrar\u0027s but I would say anybody could use it prior to it actually making it into the production SRS it\u0027s got the Scott Hollenbeck interesting that you asked that question Mario Andy Newton and I had been having a little private conversation amongst ourselves because Mario has suggested "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:07",
    "text": "that maybe this information could also be published using our DAP now having said that I think we do have to take a look at the issues of that might be associated with client identification authentication and access control though you also just said about the general public anyway I think it\u0027s a good topic for conversation so Scott on that same point actually is the next other topic to start thinking about is is this public information and should it be available to public Ora\u0027s are gonna be pieces that are private and I\u0027m not sure that we know that today but I think it\u0027s just something we need to think about as we\u0027re going through and designing it if we\u0027re going to add private information then we\u0027re going to have to come up with some other mechanism of supporting it to bootstrap or to bribe to the public so Jim yes Jim we\u0027re going from Verisign so I think fundamentally giving the policies and a structured format is number one it could be in EPP it could be an art app it could be at anything you want so the point is is that I think I\u0027m in agreement with what those policies how that can be represented and you could represent them in any way shape or form you could put it in a Word document HTML the point is is that I think as far as bootstrapping is concerned that we can take the structured format and represent it in any way for consumption by a registrar that doesn\u0027t have access scott Hollenbeck again but let me build on that for a minute Jim if you want to go with some kind of a structured format what I would strongly suggest is that we decide on one write because as soon as you get information that is represented in two different ways or for example if there are two copies of this you know that might exist in different places the risks associated with maintaining consistency increased greatly right yeah well my suggestion is to stick with EPP for right now maybe what we can do is come up with a we talked about an aggregation pattern in essence you may have individual registry systems each exposing their policies via the EPP but then if we have aggregation services whether or not have the registry provider level or the ICANN level that can be represented in a different format and that\u0027s all I\u0027m saying yeah I agree Scott I think at least data wise that can Jason should be in one spot I mean if we get to it in multiple different ways that\u0027s okay I think as long as the data isn\u0027t actually stored in multiple spots that\u0027s right no actually I\u0027m speaking as Kelly\u0027s case just on that and I know I raised this on Monday I think that logically some of this material that the bootstrap material that I was thinking of was just just the bare minimum required to connect to the server in the first place "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:07",
    "text": "to get potentially more rich policy data later but when you imagine and referring to the requirement that we would store this data potentially in the same in two locations or more but it would have to be consistent some of this will have a different level of secrecy basically so there may still be a necessity to make some of a public or at least more public than perhaps a direct connection to an EPP system might require and the rest would still remain confidential effectively so we might need to think about that that it may not exist in a complete document when when it\u0027s distributed yeah and again when I say public I don\u0027t know if that means truly public or if it\u0027s just accessible in a wider form so food electronic thought we are I I guess if we are thinking the major use case the bootstrapping one it really doesn\u0027t make too much sense to put this in in the EPP server actually the the formatter I don\u0027t mind being XML or or whatever but I I don\u0027t see too much Valerie for us to spend time here writing a extensive or a large extension just for something that will be used in a pre EPP situation so I I totally agree with this a single format i I think regarding this question of public or private information this depends on the situation and the agreement that you have with the the pre agreement that you have with this and you registrar but I I think it\u0027s valuable work but I don\u0027t see too much value in in putting this in actually in the protocol itself and I see this is probably from the point of view of a server operator like us and in others it\u0027s straightforward to do that but I don\u0027t see too much value for especially midsize to small registrar\u0027s because the amount of intelligence that you will need to put in your software to actually take action in a high achieving online situation is it\u0027s it\u0027s pretty high and I guess is a very small amount of them or even how can I say open-source implementations will get to thanks and I I think that\u0027s a great conversation that we can have because it is one of those things where the initial "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:08",
    "text": "use of it would be but way prior to any systems connecting so yeah that makes sense the only issue is you\u0027re right and I I\u0027ve talked to several registrar\u0027s and even if they do have some configuration out of it coming from it they\u0027re not looking at a lot of it being Auto configure that GoDaddy yeah we we would look at 80% or above to auto configure because our systems are completely data-driven themself we would hope that this would achieve that and Alan going maintenance or changes it\u0027s probably the only time I would see you know it being useful in the NPP system yeah so Jim Galvin speaking for myself here just to build on what frederico saying I think that um a distinction to make another use case which we have in mind is the transfer of TLDs from one one service provider to another so there\u0027s a there\u0027s a use case down the road you can also imagine a use case of what happens just if an operator wants to make changes you know to their their operating details and the way that stuff works so a point of discussion here is all of that but another one also factors in as a point of discussion is maybe there\u0027s a maybe there\u0027s a separation here maybe part of this document is just operational details and not the rest of the policy stuff and that might be a split that we should think about and the way in which we should do it because it\u0027s that operational stuff would be more applicable in in use cases down the road outside of bootstrapping yeah human goal from Verisign so you know I wouldn\u0027t give up completely on the configuration it\u0027s one point out none of the registries except for Verisign has this kind of feature at this point and registrar\u0027s don\u0027t have an opportunity to do this and the fact matter is that as far as having it be centrally defined in the system or have it be aggregated for me source code is is best followed by going directly to the source code for me personally I don\u0027t want to go to a word document that\u0027s out of date I want to go to the actual system and know what the connection policies are and the policies of the TLD is on it which will be most authoritative so my recommendation is to keep it as close to the systems as possible I have too much it\u0027s written again from NIC but yeah I don\u0027t have too much to aggregate III agree with that but anyway I I think we should I would like better for us to spend a little bit more time in trying to improve the protocol from the point of view of the use of the basic protocol that we have the this comment is because it\u0027s a little bit sad from a point of view of a server operator the way that a small registrar street.the the protocol that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:08",
    "text": "date we it\u0027s very usual for us to receive calls from registrar\u0027s asking to please clean my 500,000 pool message that I have not be treating for the last two years and then receiving support calls that oh this is not working it\u0027s obviously you are not reading the the poll messages that\u0027s it says Paul impossible to work that way so I don\u0027t know what we could do to try to improve this situation and I perhaps this this several profile or I don\u0027t know exactly the name we were giving could help but but it\u0027s it\u0027s just a general comment okay any other comments questions on the registry mapping Jim we don\u0027t have an actual IETF draft of this year right yeah so that\u0027ll be our next step yeah yeah so there\u0027s actually two things in the next step just Calvin\u0027s being his chair so you have you do have to make an internet draft out of it and we have to agree as a working group to actually adopt this as a work item and we can have a bit of that discussion when we\u0027re doing our milestone review in a bit so a thing but I mean worst case you create an internet draft and then we just do a call for adoption on the mailing list and you know let me just submit it as an individual and then we\u0027ll or maybe since I I don\u0027t imagine anyone\u0027s gonna object we\u0027ll just let the first one come through as a being named as a working group document but we\u0027ll do a call for adoption once the first draft is out there and people can say it just to save that step of having to publish it twice it seems like a little bit of overkill okay if there\u0027s nothing else and I don\u0027t see anyone in the queue on the remote so uh all right so that takes us to a discussion of our milestone review we didn\u0027t actually call this out on the mailing list but I\u0027m hopeful that people did actually prepare for this meeting and you looked at the agenda that was published and posted and you realize that we\u0027re going to have this discussion and so you\u0027ve actually gone and you\u0027ve looked and reviewed our milestones and so you have some thoughts and comments about it however what I\u0027m going to do here is move to showing in the media oh I\u0027m actually just gonna go to the website to show the stuff that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "there so for people who can be on the website you might want to just go do this this is the first link the about link it\u0027s about our working group and down here at the bottom so you see our charter and if you scroll through you can see our milestones listed which I think all fit on the display in one slot so that\u0027s actually pretty cool so let\u0027s just do a couple of quick words here on where I know we are actually um Antoine was gonna try and and walk through this I\u0027m just having I apologize that I\u0027m coughing I\u0027ve got a little bit of a chest cold which is coming on me here um Antoine you want to try and talk again and maybe you can can walk through this otherwise I\u0027ll just keep moving us along and I can see your lips moving but there\u0027s no sound coming out yeah all right I think we\u0027re gonna have to pass okay so the the obvious things this this is our milestone list for the documents that are currently considered working group documents the obvious things that do have to change of course is as you can see at the bottom the one dot can\u0027t know the launch phase document will have to be changed to published so we haven\u0027t done any recent updates either so we\u0027ll take care of that the fees document and the change poll and the allocation token will all be changed to reflected they\u0027re going to be published soon so will will update those dates so that it just reflects that they\u0027re going to be done now as part of doing all of us we also have the going back down from the bottom we have the couple of org drafts we\u0027re going to have a brief discussion about them next after this Linda no yeah okay so linens in the room here so she\u0027ll come up and say a few things about those guy headcount message from Antoine he left you a note on your phone that he\u0027d like you to write now Oh [Laughter] yes I think I did actually catch all of these things Antoine I don\u0027t so okay if you\u0027re at yes I did read your message so let\u0027s let\u0027s get to all that I\u0027m coming up in the bottom we go up a thumbs up okay so those are the org dress we\u0027ll come back around to those then going me up we have the dns operator our our protocol document let me the the question is what we\u0027re actually going to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:13",
    "text": "do with that document and where we want to go with it the editor of that document those guys have kind of fallen off the map here at the moment so they haven\u0027t been pressing to move this document along so I don\u0027t really know what to say about it it\u0027s it\u0027s targeted for informational document but it has kind of left our our radar here I know that the editor who had pen was had some some personal issues for a while but I thought that he was back at work so we actually don\u0027t know what to do about that document for the moment I think that if we can\u0027t make contact with one of the editors and if anyone here has a point of view about that document and wants to move it along it would be helpful if you could you know reach out to the folks there that are part of that I don\u0027t see Jacques or Matt or Olaf ER in the room here for that document at the moment so but we\u0027ll keep pressing I think if they don\u0027t want to step up and move the document along we\u0027ll probably press them to drop it and and we\u0027ll move it off this is probably the thing that will happen or at least Park it for now I mean that a minimum would be the right thing to do so that it doesn\u0027t stay active and and it frees up a slot for us to have another document to be visible that leaves us the bundling document up at the top and you know Adam this is a question in part to you on the bundling document it was originally targeted for standard track and we had the buff about it I guess about a year or so ago about having a bun wing Bop instead and under the idea that this document might move in that direction we just kind of left it here part but now the question is whether or not if we could move that to informational instead and and have it pushed out the door that way and if you want to speak about that right now you can or if you want to take a few minutes and think about it I\u0027ll just put that question out there for the moment okay so some thoughts about that now so that takes care of the items on here so the questions to the group here we\u0027ll come back to talking about org but the question is updating these things to have sensible dates and milestones so I think that leaves the validate out we should consider whether or not the May of 2018 is is a reasonable milestone for that and getting it done if we want to extend that and push it out a bit that\u0027s fine and I think everything else is on track and under control here we\u0027ll talk about Oregon a minute so let\u0027s talk about other documents that we have that are not here we also have Scott\u0027s tagged "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "document which is not currently listed which has to be added to the list so we need to talk about a date and a timeline for that see if anyone has any suggestions or preferences on how they want to do that and the object tag document we also have a verification code document which has not been officially adopted for us but it\u0027s a candidate for adoption so we have those two documents that we need to think about how to order these things and Scott please go ahead Scott Hollenbeck did you want to do that right now yes because I that\u0027s it as far as I know that\u0027s the list of things we have those two outstanding documents and some other stuff that come down a road so here\u0027s what I\u0027m thinking with the object tagging document I know Andy and I have tried prompting some conversation on lists you know more than once we did have some feedback from Patrick which was along the lines I don\u0027t like the entire approach but we didn\u0027t like his approach either so what\u0027s in the document is going to stay there the one thing I threw out to the list about a possible addition to the document that I didn\u0027t get a lot of comment on either way was adding some rationale to describe where the separation character came from this wasn\u0027t just a random pick a character out of your nether regions type of a thing it was you know about trying to find something that is URI say if you know not used in any other way not currently used in current handles and and so that\u0027s basically where the tilde character came from so having said that if I make that change to the document at this point I know of no other work that needs to be done there and if there is no other comment on or the discussion I\u0027m going to suggest that this document is finished and ready for working group last call it is on standard track right it\u0027s not informational correct BCP okay because we\u0027re talking about an operational practice here as opposed to a protocol okay so I think you know even for that document I mean I agree with Scott you know as in terms of a process if there\u0027s no comments to add to the review then it can move along fairly smartly here there\u0027s no reason to hold it back I mean he can make the change that\u0027s there we are going to have to do a working group last call and would very much going to need opinions and comments and advice from others even if it\u0027s just I support this document since we do have a a single you know very strong objection we\u0027re gonna need for other folks in the working group to have a point of view about this and I\u0027ll say more about why it moment go ahead yeah just a comment from Antoine he says that the the document shouldn\u0027t be on the milestone list only stand his track on the milestones okay that\u0027s fine I and Adam has kind of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:21",
    "text": "get a reflex reaction I mean I wasn\u0027t I wasn\u0027t we can sort this out later I I had always thought you put everything on the milestone list and you\u0027re nodding your head yes to that Antoine was suggesting there that we only put standard track documents in the milestone list but I don\u0027t know that that distinction is too important do you okay so Adam said anything we plan to publish is on the milestone list so it should go there for tracking so we\u0027ll just that\u0027s the way that will we\u0027ll do that okay so that takes care of the object tag Oh what I want to say is this is a small group and there really aren\u0027t that many of us in general I you know as chairs Antoine and I have always looked essentially for unanimity you know that or for there to be essentially no objections to a document and it is kind of hard generally that\u0027s worked for us because we\u0027re such a small group just asking for you know all of us to be part of something seems to seems to work fine and we\u0027ve had pretty good success but since we have a document here which has an objection it\u0027s much more important to make sure that people acknowledge that they want a document and they have no objections to it I need to give you know if Patrick has an objection he needs the opportunity to state that but as chairs we need we need for other people to comment on whether they support the document or not in order to get past that Scott Scott Hollenback if I could if I number of channeling Patrick here I think that we ultimately got him to admit that this was more a case of he would hold his nose as opposed to I object strongly I mean this was on list on memory remembering this incorrectly folks please just you know correct me but I think that\u0027s where we ended up okay good that\u0027s good to know thanks for that clarification so my reminder to people to at least acknowledge that you have no objection to a document is important whenever there is an objection since we don\u0027t get that many of them in the screw we generally seem to have unanimous support for things and that\u0027s a that\u0027s a good thing okay excuse me Oliver walked into the room so maybe Oliver would like to talk about the DNS operator our our protocol document and indicate to us if it needs to stay on our milestone list or not and if it does you have to tell us what\u0027s gonna happen what the next steps are there\u0027s a minor\u0027s topic that the editors have not been finding time to discuss among themselves but after that is resolved it should be a last call or callable okay all right so do you have an expectation and when you expect to pull that together because right now happened next month yeah the reason why I ask is the milestone list puts it at January of 2018 which was obviously a couple of months ago and it\u0027s okay we just need to push that milestone date out to some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:22",
    "text": "through July okay why don\u0027t I just make it July to push it to the next ITF meeting thank you okay so that takes care of that document so that\u0027s that one that\u0027s object tag validate you want to speak to a suggestion for a milestone date this Roger ah actually let\u0027s keep it at May for now I mean I\u0027d like to shoot for that to get the last document update done and then hopefully we can move it forward from there when it actually completes I don\u0027t know but I think the work should be done on it by May so this one also falls into the object tag category of as long as there\u0027s no objections there\u0027s and there hasn\u0027t been much discussion about it they could just move forward smartly as soon as we\u0027ve got it together okay so the one other remaining question in all of this is to ask if there are any other documents and considerations to adopt and Wow the list is lining up amazing Scot Hollenbeck so I know I\u0027ve talked about this one here in the past I am currently working on an individual submission for our deaf that describes how federated authentication you know can be used you know for client identification and authorization I haven\u0027t yet brought this to the group for consideration because it still has what I consider to be a significant hack in it that describes how this would work with command-line clients like curl and W get however that situation has changed in the last few months because the OAuth working group is pushing something that they call the device flow it\u0027s very much intended to describe a method for you know doing off based authorizations for devices that are UI constrained and we\u0027re talking about a command-line interface so it doesn\u0027t get more constrained than that so I\u0027ve got my implementation team back home you know working on trying to work the device flow into our existing implementation and once they demonstrate how it can be implemented there I\u0027m planning on back porting software reality into the specification all right and so then you know once I update the spec I think that one will be ready to be brought to the working group for consideration so is that looking down here in the list is that your this open ID doc here yes okay all right and and one other thing to consider here even though this is our gap specific for those of you who aren\u0027t following along and I can space with what\u0027s going along with who is and the GD for general data protection regulation you know I can is currently modeling over a number of proposals for dealing with tiered authentication in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:22",
    "text": "Whois I\u0027m really worried that they are going to adopt something for who is that is somehow going to live far beyond its usefulness and somewhat taint what we can and cannot do with our DAP going forward so that\u0027s another one of the reasons that I want to try to get this document you know into working group consideration so it becomes a little bit more than a figment of hollenbeck\u0027s imagination yes that\u0027s a good point and there are those of us who are going to constrain what they try to do to who is so they wait for the right thing to happen in our dap but you know the community is the community you never just never know in this world yes Jim Gould I wanted to speak to the verification code draft I\u0027m gonna just a request that that stay on hold I don\u0027t know exactly sure what that means but since we\u0027re the only ones implementing we\u0027d have to decide like what we\u0027re gonna do with it and whether or not there are other places where it may be used but right now I think it\u0027s a generic solution that\u0027s worthwhile proceeding if there is interest from other registries to do so but right now I don\u0027t see that happening there are other data escrow the data format drafts that I\u0027ve talked to and prior working groups that I\u0027m not sure whether or not there was an open question whether or not it could those could be taken on based on the Charter but if they are then data escrow and the data set format drafts would be requested be added right and actually I\u0027ll extend that list a bit more in a moment where I think we are so we have the object tag and validate drafts which will move along smartly here as soon as we get another published draft we have the DNS operator draft which we will push out to July and the verification code you didn\u0027t actually give me a date when do you want to push a milestone out for that if you have a suggestion for it I believe it\u0027s complete the only issue is whether or not it\u0027s it could be standards track considering we\u0027re the only ones implementing it with our registrar so it it\u0027s I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any more work to be done on it okay so that you\u0027re just saying it\u0027s ready for working group last call now unless somebody wants to object that\u0027s right yeah so okay so maybe we\u0027ll just give it a publication date of May like these other ones here just to give us some time to get through working Google last call and stuff and and move them along and we\u0027ll see if there\u0027s any any objections on the list to those okay that leaves us with the set of other new "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:22",
    "text": "documents that that Scott had mentioned the point that I wanted to get to and this is that we have now taken all of the documents that we have and the things that have come in front of us and although we have a couple of quick process things to get through here they\u0027re all going to shift off of our list to do here I ideally this year if all works out the only one is the operator document which is out there let me take a moment and let Lynn Lynn come up and say what she wants to say about the org drafts so that we can just add that into our summary here about where we are and in our workload prepare any slides and I just don\u0027t want to give a very quick updates under all crops and we women know that our crops were originally designed for the rest of our information displayed in the waste and then after a period of working group discussion we chose to change the reseller object to the organization object object and I think we have done this work last year and then we did receive some comments on mailing lists - for the - organization dropsy and we have responded all the comments and and some wording and the examples were updated in the latest the new version and and the courses have been discussed Wow and we thought that it might be proper time for us to request a working group last call and to push them forward and to push them forward as informational not as standard track well we had originally taken them on board as as standards track and I believe I well maybe that\u0027s a question here for the working group to to ask what people want to do I had understood that people had pushed back and wanted them to be informational and not standards track so that is the question that she\u0027s bringing to the to the floor here as to whether we\u0027re going to publish them as standards or not madam Roach so I wanted to speak to a couple of things regarding the informational documents the first is I heard something go by that sort of implied that you were hesitant to publish things standards track if you didn\u0027t have multiple implementations at the moment that\u0027s that has not come to that question right well that\u0027s not a formal barrier for putting things into the first step of standards track right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:22",
    "text": "that\u0027s that\u0027s necessary for subsequent progression but I don\u0027t think that\u0027s what you want to gate these things on the other thing that I\u0027m going to raise is kind of a flag is while the conversation hasn\u0027t been had I know one of the things that we plan to talk about at the upcoming iesg retreat is the publication of informational documents that look like standards and as I\u0027m looking through those they contain protocols extensions to standard protocols so if you do decide to make them informational there there might depending upon the outcome of that conversation be some pushback when it comes time to publish them so if there\u0027s kind of a just on the bubble about whether there\u0027s you know want informational versus standards unless there\u0027s a pretty strong reason to put them informational they look like protocols I kind of you know recommend putting them in the standards bucket okay that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s helpful that\u0027s good to know and that\u0027s kind of been an issue for us here and talking about things I admit even for myself I\u0027ve always kind of fallen back on the idea that you should have multiple implementations to be on the standards track because I was about to push back on Jim on on the verification code document if they\u0027re the only ones that did it should it be standards track right I mean he planned to progress them then you won\u0027t do that before you putting put them further down the path but first step single elimination that\u0027s fine so you can be proposed to ended with the one implementation so that\u0027s fine right okay I don\u0027t know if that impacts the you had a question about the the bundling draft which I think was predominantly into whether it was informational versus standards and I think probably I would offer the same guidance in that yeah the bundling graph had the bundling draft has a has a different issue if you recall from the bot that we had it was more about whether or not the DNS community won in such a thing even exists as a as an Internet standard as a proposed standard there was a lot of pushback in trying to create a a bundling ball that would allow us to explore this issue okay um I don\u0027t remember the bluff itself was this was a discussion during yeah the needle was this panel you know I was during the meeting okay so it was a year or so ago year and a half maybe at this point been a while that would have been before I was very director sorry um actually you know I think that\u0027s true yes you were not the area director at the time okay I\u0027ll talk to Alyssa about it then and I don\u0027t even know who was that there was a change there between a listen somebody else there was some transition yeah Barry yeah we might we might have to take this offline to track the history and decide what you want to do there okay the notes that I had was that there was to be a list discussion on the topic and like a quick search of the list I didn\u0027t find anything but I wasn\u0027t looking as far back as that so I may have just missed it yeah so that\u0027s fine um you know I I don\u0027t want to I don\u0027t want to over take any prior decision and try to remake it I you know my recollection just as chair "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:23",
    "text": "is that you know that particular document additional constraints or issues that we\u0027re coming to bear on it they that document was would like to be a standards track just like these org documents which I think now based on what you just said we can move that forward and verification I I commend to you the issue of the bundling draft two to make sure that we don\u0027t over take a prior decision that\u0027s been made okay also up with you and Antoine and probably Alyssa and Barry as well just to figure out what what you need to do there so we\u0027re not like going against previous consensus yeah yeah that\u0027s just trying to be fair to the process here Thanks okay yeah so thank you so what I\u0027ve heard here in in in both cases for verification code and for the the two org drafts go away and the org drafts are are these two here is you know unless there is unless there is an objection and it\u0027s a you know a technical substantive objection that those two documents are also ready for working group last call and moving forward so they also will move off our milestone list relatively quickly here I\u0027m sorry yes the organizational ones okay and Antoine is is reminding me to to remind us here even so with the with these extensions and changes you know let\u0027s not forget the the Ayana registry for registering extensions so even if they\u0027re informational they get to be put there but you know these are going to be standards tracks so we should add them there too and those should come along so we\u0027ll do a working group last call on those on those documents so back again in summary I think that leaves us with the DNS operator document I think that\u0027s oh and and the bundling which will have to follow up and and address offline as to where to go Scott offered up a couple of documents that had come down the pike and I do want to offer up the following two we don\u0027t have a large number of registrar\u0027s that participate in this working group and participate here directly now we\u0027ve talked about this issue before and so this is just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:23",
    "text": "partly a recollection for folks to bring it forward again so that you\u0027re aware of it there are on the other hand a great larger number of registrar\u0027s that participates in in the ICANN arena we actually now have a Technical Operations Group on the ICANN side where registrar\u0027s are participating you know quite regularly and vigorously now and we have a separate registry tech ops group which is not quite as as as active but mostly because we\u0027re here in this room for the most part so that seems to be working for us and we have a joint tech ops group for the groups to work together the the thing that I want to bring out is there are a number of specifications technical specifications for operational concerns that are coming from that registrar community that they are since they now have a vibrant tech operations group those things are under discussion and they\u0027re developing those documents the intent is that since that\u0027s the place where that group is working to let them do that work there and then we will submit it here and bring it here to give it to the IETF for IETF control you know for broader review and then ultimate publication there is this you know issue of coordination you know it\u0027ll come to this working group and we\u0027ll get to review it and we have a you know a fairly vibrant registry participation here so we\u0027ll get to look at this stuff and and then comment on it and and review it in our usual process here it is true that if we make any substantive changes to it along the way we will have to coordinate back with that registrar community and that tech ops group and the set of us who actually do participate in that group and in that arena and there are you know a number of us here in the room are you know all going to share that burden of making sure that that happens since we just want to make sure that we keep that community involved in the things that are important to them so there are a number of documents which are on the list that are going to come our way fairly soon we actually do have I think there\u0027s one down here already which we have not adopted and I actually don\u0027t have it on my list so it\u0027s uh gotten lost here but there is an unavailable names document which has actually been through the it is an internet draft will resurrect that one there is some discussion about creating standards for file names for reports that are generated between registries and registrar\u0027s so there is a there is an an existing document for that also and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:23",
    "text": "there is some discussion going on now about a billing transaction format file a file for formatting billing transactions which the registrar\u0027s would like and it\u0027s just a way for them to reconcile their invoices those are the three things that come to top of mind at the moment just to alert you to work which is coming our way but Jim go ahead please yeah I want to bring up again since these are file format documents that we\u0027re gonna have to review the Charter apparently because I brought up about the data escrow and passed and the data set format I just wanna make sure that we\u0027re able to take on that work yep I\u0027ll speak to that very quickly I have actually already talked to our area director and you know since these things are all in the context of registration work yes I you know your your chairs will acknowledge that they have been negligent doing this we had actually agreed to it before and I had at this meeting I raised it again with Adam here we we do have the ability to just tweak our charter a little bit there\u0027s just a couple of phrases to change because we don\u0027t want to change the overall scope but we want to lift the restriction from being EPP and our DAP only to being registration protocols with EPP and our DAP is cus keep us in scope here so to the extent that these things are you know just for registration systems we should be okay and we do have to get that charter updated and make that happen before we can actually adopt these documents well we\u0027ll have to make that happen and that\u0027ll have to go through an is G review too and study but we\u0027re now hot on a path to get that out of the way since these documents are you know fast approaching when they\u0027re gonna want to submit them to us so thank you for that Alex may over I understand that participation of registrar\u0027s in that group is pretty limited and even write participation of registries is well not the whole industry however I\u0027m slightly worried by the fact that there is some specification work going on in a gated community which is then supposed to be rubber-stamp by the ITF to become an RC yeah so without like paying the registry stakeholder group membership fees and being an accredited I can\u0027t really read history there is actually no way to get into those working groups yeah which means that their standardization work going on in a closed room that we subsequently get on our plate to reverse them I\u0027m not super happy about it yeah so we need to find a way to improve that situation it\u0027s not the way the ITF typically works yeah and I\u0027m like getting something finalized agreed behind closed doors on our plate to just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:23",
    "text": "stamp it with an RC number is not the way the ITF typically works so let me speak to that directly to very sensitive I agree with your sensitivity to that issue and want to acknowledge that I\u0027m very sensitive to a2 as are others and we\u0027ve had this discussion and a and you know then I yeah and the intent here is absolutely not to take over the ietf process okay that is that is not the intent I know that people will be quick to say that you know they could just join our mailing list and they can participate here and do that and and I really do appreciate that and for people who are part of the IETF we get that that\u0027s how things work the truth is we\u0027re just not getting them to do that and they\u0027re not interested in doing that registrar\u0027s in general and that\u0027s kind of unfortunate my personal model about this is that I\u0027m hopeful that if we get some success in moving some documents along that that will encourage and motivate more people to want to come to the mailing list even if they won\u0027t come to IETF meetings so that\u0027s my hope and we\u0027ll have to see after we get a couple of these and get some successes under our belts see if we can motivate that at least from my point of view I\u0027ve certainly made it clear in those communities and I\u0027m sure Roger wants to speak to that and and maybe maybe Scott will say something to here explain to them that no the ITF is not going to just rubber-stamp their work we\u0027re taking advantage of the fact that there is a a group of technical people who are willing to work on something and we\u0027re just using that opportunity to get a you know can think of it more as a design team than a closed community doing something and they fully acknowledge and recognize that no the change control comes to the ITF it\u0027s coming over here and it is subject to IETF review and consensus and change control and that\u0027s what it is it\u0027s it\u0027s definitely not a rubber stamp so we get to apply whatever we need to apply to these documents and the review maybe I\u0027ll let you jump the queue for a moment to respond um quite frankly I\u0027m not sure whether the ITF process is the right venue for some of those documents I believe for example that the format of a billing line of a registry this is purely an inter industrial it\u0027s not a protocol yeah so if they want an RAC number they can like invent something else that as an acronym forms RFC yeah but it seems like they want to crown some of the documents with an RC number yeah and but they don\u0027t want us to be involved in the development of that so I\u0027ll speak partly to that it\u0027s a problem yeah it is mention my concerns no no if I\u0027m more than happy if somebody else also works on improving interoperability but for some of the work that probably will come out of those groups our RC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:26",
    "text": "document format is maybe not the right way yeah we can have that discussion with each individual document that comes forward I\u0027ll mean I\u0027ll just insert myself in the queue after others rather than trying to dominate conversation I have some comments about that but go ahead Scott Scott Hall in back actually thank you for teeing this up because they\u0027re things I want to mention about this too right indeed the process here is not want to throw that an internet draft over the fence and you know Bango it pops out as an RFC and directly to that point I would oppose adoption of any internet draft unless there is an active document author that is working over here in this community you know that is willing to engage with this working group to deal with the discussion the edits and the kinds of things that have to happen to be part of our normal document development process right so everything everybody just said here but if the idea is to publish a proposed standard using the ITF process we have to follow the process you know go from A to Z not said thank you go ahead miss Roger um yeah and I think I want to hit back on what Jim mentioned I think the 10th of this tech ops group was not standards or any any actually it was a discussion group that designed something and I think it was most important that yes there are smaller registries even and smaller registrar\u0027s that are participating there and if the larger registries and registrar\u0027s hear them they can actually help them get into the right direction because a lot of the discussion is not technical its policy so it actually a lot of that work that comes out of that group ends up heading toward ICANN and getting into policy but it\u0027s more of spurring the discussion and we\u0027re since a lot of those people don\u0027t know where it should go is directing it into those spots and as Scott mentioned I do see if a technical idea comes out that that person that was driving that will be over here in this group working so yeah and so Jim Calvin speaking for my myself here as a from the center microphone um I I\u0027m actually in in favor of some of these things although I take your point that they\u0027re they\u0027re not really necessarily IETF standards in a traditional protocol kind of sense you know but certainly the ITF has standardized other things that are not necessarily protocols I mean you know API is kind of thing for example for me as a speaking as a registry these things had to fall into a category of they do affect operations you know I mean it is a technical kind of specification and there is a value and I think some significant value maybe more so on the registrar side than the registry side to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:26",
    "text": "have a uniform way to do this you know because it is important information and it does affect the overall operation of the system so I mean I\u0027m generally supportive of moving these documents forward and having them here because the other question I would ask is if not here then where you know the IETF in in some cases I mean maybe you have to to relax the lines a little bit for what\u0027s reasonable to be in the IETF you know publication path so we get to think about that with each of these documents but on the other hand I don\u0027t know where else I would put a public repository of a technical specification of this type that\u0027s all so and I see our area directors coming up with some thoughts but go ahead please um Alex may offer um nobody prevents the CPH tech ops group or whatever of those groups to create their own document series that\u0027s that\u0027s a recommendation for the format of billing lines yeah fair enough why does it need an RC number do thus the format of travel agencies exchanging bookings with Airlines require an RC number no right and um I\u0027ll just put myself in the queue after duty here but go ahead first Adam Adam Roach I just wanted to make a couple of observations the first is we have done standardization of things that were pretty internal to systems for example sip standardized a common logging format that is used exclusively between like a proxy and the file system and the tools have scraped things out of the file system so it\u0027s not like this is well outside the spirit of what the ITF traditionally does the other thing that I would observe is that if this group wants to put together documents and have them published they can even get an RFC number on them as long as they work with the independent stream editor so that might be a path to consider if there\u0027s like really strong pushback against doing it in this working group just want to offer that up as an observation thank you uh Jodi I\u0027m gonna release you from the queue here by pushing the big red button just curious yes loud and clear all right I you know I think that what we were trying to look for in this tech ops group you know speaking to Alex\u0027s point of like reports and that type of thing it\u0027s not really that we were looking for an RFC for the reports an RFC number we were looking for some place to put this document as an informational to say this is how the registrar\u0027s would like this to happen so that when new registries come online and they ask for how would you like to have this done we could point to this and say look this is what we have in the IETF it\u0027s an informational it\u0027s not necessarily a standard but this is the way that other registries have started to take this down now I\u0027m I\u0027m not I don\u0027t think we were asking every registry to do this but this is what we wanted to have for it you know as we know there were supposed to be thousands upon thousands of new TLDs coming up and I don\u0027t know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:26",
    "text": "how many registry operators there would be but we would like to be able to point to somewhere to say this is how we would like to see these these reports or matted etc and that was the whole point of putting out the the unavailable names list and the the tiered prices list I can\u0027t premium price list I guess so we could point to something to say here\u0027s the document it\u0027s in IETF it\u0027s not an RFC but it is an informational and that is kind of a standard and I\u0027m using standard very loosely but this is the way that registrar\u0027s have been using this and this is what registrar\u0027s would like to have a new registry develop in order to keep I mean in order to bring auntie oldies faster quicker etc I\u0027m not sure if I\u0027m answering Alex\u0027s question but thank you Judy and I\u0027ll let you go Alex again here um I understand what you\u0027re after actually and it\u0027s perfectly well it because it improves interoperability and everything I\u0027m as I said I\u0027m just not sure we have a very small group here yeah and that means we have very little reviewing power yeah for those documents and we have a lot of a lot of existing documents which we need to push through publication process so any like a couple other more documents just because that\u0027s existing practice that registrar\u0027s would appreciate registries to follow I wonder what we can actually contribute yeah because there are fewer people here and around the CPH take-up groups some of the people participate in both groups so what what can that groove actually contribute yeah and and how many people here are like in a position to review those three documents I think that you mentioned now especially given the fact that they were unable to participate in the development of these documents before those documents were made available to the ITF yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s actually what what my problem is even if I would want to participate I can\u0027t it\u0027s a closed door development okay I think you need to exit the queue there Jody if you\u0027re if you\u0027re done I\u0027m not sure how you there you go okay this is an important discussion and I do think that we\u0027re okay for now what I what I would suggest is I\u0027m gonna look to you know proposed the the Charter changes on the mailing list and let\u0027s use that as an opportunity to talk about this particular issue some more it\u0027s it\u0027s subjective Alex I guess you know speaking a little bit for myself here not not as chair again you know I\u0027m supportive of this process where we\u0027re "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:26",
    "text": "trying to find a way to work more closely with a community of people that are not easily accessible so that\u0027s one side of things and you know I you\u0027re not in your head just for the folks who can\u0027t see you and so that\u0027s a good thing the the second part of it is you know we can have some discussion about whether or not the things that they\u0027re proposing really should be IETF documents or not Adam brings up a good suggestion about well they could just put them in the Independent stream editor and go that path my you know speaking personally I would rather that they come through this working group at least a little bit even if they don\u0027t get much look and then they go out to the IETF at large because I\u0027d rather they be known invisible to all of us then that they suddenly appear somewhere else I like the idea of bringing them over here because I don\u0027t want to have too many places that I have to participate for the documents but we can continue the discussion on the mailing list when we get to looking at the at the Charter and think about that and see where we are okay we have 20 minutes left so that\u0027s the milestone review I think we\u0027re in good place we\u0027re going to clean up our milestones it\u0027s going to suddenly become very short we have some administrative stuff with a bunch of documents that has to happen over the next couple of months but we should have a pretty thin agenda moving into July but ideally we will have some new documents that will come to us that we will work to adopt and so we\u0027ll have a new set of documents and and things to look at coming into the next meeting in July so okay on the agenda we have one other we have actually already talked about the org documents I kind of slotted them upfront into the milestone discussion so is uh is Gavin here Gavin yeah okay good so let me bring up his slide here there are two our slides that were loaded up there for folks who want to get them and in the meantime let me bring them up so I can show them off here and let Gavin go ahead if you want to wait for your slides just give me a moment here okay thanks thanks Jim so I\u0027m bringing this to this working group because I think is the possibly the best fit for what I\u0027m talk coming to talk about in that it\u0027s in the area of registration operations it\u0027s a kind of thought experiment or a straw man idea to kind of look at the way that we currently publish and retrieve registration data about domain names we currently have a model which is very centralized some some T of these and some registries operators of semi centralized in model and what I wanted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:28",
    "text": "to do is think about a way of fully decentralizing the registration data of domain names so this is the what we can discuss today so okay so just gonna go quickly through this talk about where where this came from what the current situation is what Who am I is think a little bit more about some of the impacts it might have and then look at what might be doing the future so you the origin story is I was browsing Facebook quite late one evening and a good friend of mine who now works in a filius posted a link to an article on circle ID about how you know gdpr was a terrible thing and who eliminating who is just going to be a disaster and it\u0027s something just sparked in my head it might be the wine I\u0027ve been drinking saying well let\u0027s think about let\u0027s kind of you know I was out of the box so I thought out the book so I wrote this up this little comment on Facebook which a few days later kind of translated into the next slide which was an internet draft I don\u0027t know how that happened but the Facebook comment got turned into an internet draft there was another version of this which I published a few weeks ago but it is pretty much as this is now it\u0027s obviously there for anyone to look at so let\u0027s talk about where we are at the moment please thank you so in most cases registries operate databases of contact information they all run RFC five seven three five seven three zero they will have a registrant admin tech and billing contact for their domain names I\u0027ve done some research in in kind of usage patterns of contact objects in registries by registrar\u0027s there\u0027s a great deal of duplication there\u0027s a great deal of wastage registrar\u0027s never delete contacts and I literally mean never so registries have huge databases of contact information it\u0027s all low-level contact information but they have a lot of it and if there are gTLD or they\u0027re a registry that publishes their continent own file or a list of domain names then essentially that database is freely accessible to anyone who wants it or they have to do is just do a foreach on every domain in the zone and for a data subject a registrant or someone who\u0027s been roped in to be the admin tech or billing contact for a domain name they have zero transparency on what happens to their data once it goes into the registry it just appears and whatever happens to it whoever whichever third parties are accessing you have no they have no access to information about what\u0027s happening to their to their information we despite the capabilities that our app has there is still no differentiated access really so everyone has access to everything which means that there\u0027s absolutely no incentive for anyone who\u0027s being asked to submit information to this database to give any accurate data other than gatekeeper saying that\u0027s not valid please try again they\u0027ll and we know that Hughie\u0027s accuracy is not great so that\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:30",
    "text": "current situation with with the the Registration Data Services that we have at the moment whether that\u0027s who is our adapt so Who am I starts from a few basic principles one get rid of a centralized database to tell the registrants that domain owners to publish the information in a standardized format and Who am I provides a way for a consumer of that information to go work out where to find it the registrant the domain owner gets transparency on what\u0027s happening to their data they can see who\u0027s requesting it the protocol allows them to delegate responsibility for their domain to third parties in the same way that they do for hosting it or for hosting its DNS and I also contend that all the ways that whom I can fail are identical from a from a security or an abuse point of view to the ways that who is fails currently so it\u0027s a it may not necessarily be an improvement on who is but it\u0027s certainly not it\u0027s not certainly no worse than who is so the three for there are three versions of Who am I and the idea is that an implementer of who amaya client implementer who am i will try them in order for starting with a DNS lookup so the approach of a domain name publishes a URI record at the apex of their domain or under it under a tag that just says this is the URL you go to to get my contact information so they can put whatever information they whatever your I they like in their it could be on on their own web server it could be on third-party server they can put whatever they like in in there and then they keep the client will just go your from and does a web request to go and grab that and parses it and does whatever it to cz\u0027s to do with it it occurred to me after writing this that there\u0027s a second version of this which is that on the next slide which is actually just put whole thing in the DNS because you can take a vCard you can encode it into base64 you can create a data URI so this avoids the need to have a file somewhere you can just stick it straight in the DNS and then it also avoids the need for the client to your web request so the client can just grab the data straight out of the DNS if a who and my client does this DNS lookup doesn\u0027t get anything from either of these two then it could fall back to a third option which is on the next slide which is the well-known URL and the the specification the draft does actually have a lot on a request to register this well-known URL so that\u0027s a basically description of what Who am I is it\u0027s it\u0027s very simple it\u0027s if you\u0027re doing if you\u0027re writing a who a my client instead of a who is client instead of going to a working at which registry to go and send a a port 43 request to you just do a DNS lookup and see if you don\u0027t get a DNS lookup then you can go straight to this URL and try and get that as well if you get a 404 then you know that you\u0027ve not got you want what you need next slide so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:32",
    "text": "what does this mean for the different parties involved for domain owners they have the obviously obvious that information a lot of companies do this already I mean how many cut websites do you go - we already requirement certain jurisdictions require that you publish it in input in human readable format all I\u0027m saying is let\u0027s put it in a in a machine readable format as well the indirection allows you to use a third party or for a third party to provide it to you as a managed service if you register a domain name with godaddy or with any other registrar they usually give you a DNS free DNS service same same time and so they can insert that DNS record for you or if they\u0027re providing your website a web hosting service they can set the well-known URL and and publish the information if you if you ask them to there is a possibility at some point of providing some form of federated authentication so a request to get this information sends you off somewhere else in the same way that Scott\u0027s at work with I doubt but it would rescind someone off somewhere else to get authorization from the third party before sending them back or you might have a HTTP authentication where you just say it\u0027s that the authorization header just says email and then you have to give your email address it allows the domain owner to log who\u0027s accessing their Whois information so they know if someone\u0027s they can correlate it to I got an email I published a Who am I file with this email address in it someone from this IP address did it who my query for it and then I got a spam so I know that IP address was being used to harvest information for spec and then you could do clever stuff whereby you give different information to different people I\u0027m not saying this is either good or bad I\u0027m just saying it\u0027s possible but it might be that you know if you\u0027re a big company you might want to say well if you\u0027re querying us from Germany then all you been information about German office because they\u0027re the best people for you to talk to or maybe I\u0027ll give you a unique email address so that I know like again can collar 8-cup correlate abusive activity with with with email spam I get what does it mean for registries so registrar\u0027s so again a registrar\u0027s already in the business of capturing contact information from their customers and giving it to third parties under this model they don\u0027t have to give it away to their parties they can keep it themselves they can publish it they can provide that as a as a value-added service to their to their customer so if they\u0027re in a their red selling a domain name that\u0027s under a policy regime that says we don\u0027t have thick who is instead registrants have an obligation to publish accurate who are my information they can register us can step in and fulfill that requirement and then finally for registries so registries often need to contact information to validate credentials or eligibility to say make sure to make sure they know who "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:33",
    "text": "if the register nism that they\u0027re there they have the rights to get that information I don\u0027t think who my prevents that from happening at all so you could have envisage a situation where the information was presented to the registry as part of the Craig command the registry then validates it and discards it or that the URL or the DNS record is pre published on the domains name servers before domains created and then it\u0027s checked in the same way that registry is often check to see that there\u0027s no Lane delegation before they create the domain they can pure Italy poll it make sure that it\u0027s there they can respond to reports from third parties that it\u0027s missing or it\u0027s bogus in the same way that they do with who is currently but it does take a great deal of burden away from the registries they no longer have this huge database of personal information that they have to protect that their it saves them money operations and security and all kinds of other things so that\u0027s kind of very high level what Who am I could be if we could move on to the next slide oh final one is for consumers so you you can still date in mind Who am I because you still have a list of zone of domain name so you can still go out and query each one you\u0027d have to worry about rate limiting because you\u0027re not hitting the same Whois server every time you\u0027re going out across the internet and getting it from all kinds of random places so you could easily have a situation where a browser has an extension or some feature where when it hits the domain name it then just the who and my query in parallel saying where does a query for a for a favicon or something like that and just displays it in the in the in the chrome of the browser how you might handle authentication when you\u0027re when you\u0027re doing operating headless mode as goddess talked about it\u0027s is a is a question about is that I can\u0027t give an answer to here but again if there\u0027s bogus information or it\u0027s missing information they still have recourse to the registry and the registry ultimately can suspend the domain as a sanction for not for not publishing information in a regulatory environment where it\u0027s required so yeah so Who am I could be abuse oh and I\u0027m sure anyone in this room could think of a dozen ways in which this uh this proposal could be misused or abused but I can\u0027t think of a single way where it could be abused or misused which isn\u0027t already happening now in who is so future I mean this is still kind of a silly toy I\u0027m not suggesting that we take this term the standards track or anything like that but there are possible ways we can improve and enhance it and this is a list of some of them so could we have different contact types how would you retrieve information when it remains not working anymore and I haven\u0027t really done a formal analysis of security instability I\u0027m slightly scared by the length of this queue okay let me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:36",
    "text": "just um I think that\u0027s the last slide right yeah okay um just to point out people we\u0027re time check we got five minutes and look behind you there\u0027s five deep in the queue so you are you all get sixty seconds go Stefon bottom half I think it\u0027s a good idea you may talk you may look at the draft on security dot txt which relies on the same idea that allowing people to publish their own day type would be cool to have some sort of things in x-men I think I said it\u0027s a good idea to all your people to publish their own data I\u0027m not skeptical on the last part that it\u0027s possible to replace a current add yes a typical example of a problem in the default we don\u0027t publish a data of personal registrants individuals but we still need to have it in case we have to contact them so who am i cannot replace that but as a possibility also for the web they have been so many proposals have some sort of humans that sixteen well-known so people can publish in a structural way information it would be cool to review all these possibilities to be sure that they work well with your proposal but yes I agree I support thank you thank you nog Lucia you know registrant information is something that people like to use for spamming you said that so people essentially if you know registries and registrar\u0027s were not publishing movies data roughly speaking I have some doubts that the actual registrants will publish their own data therefore it might be a cool you know cool idea but who is going to really use this right I\u0027m skeptical about the actual news so so on its own Who am I is not gonna solve is not into any problem it\u0027s say it needs to come with a kind of policy environment that makes use of it so the there are certain norms that are enforced by policy in other areas and that\u0027s all I proposed is that if a registry might make the decision that they wanted to go fully fear and you know one publish any odd store or publish any contact information whatsoever they still needed a way of identifying who is responsible for domain who is the owner of a domain then they could implement a policy that says you have to do this or you have to employ a third party to do this and we will monitor it and we will take action where um where you fail to meet your requirements Scott Harlan back a couple of things so I\u0027m trying to go very fast since I\u0027ve only got a minute as I read through this a couple of words kept popping into my head finger webfinger right it\u0027s it seems very similar in constant you know the idea that you as a user can self publish some information and others can find it assuming they know you know the right tool to use but the other thing I wanted to say is you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:36",
    "text": "know what you just described here in terms of the registry kind of being the enforcer of ensuring that registrants do something that scares me to death I could imagine it your scout it would write well you as Mark was saying getting millions of registrants to do anything even if there is a policy Club you can hit them with it\u0027s it\u0027s a losing proposition and I know that you know my company doesn\u0027t really want to have to be in the business of enforcing what a registrar\u0027s customers are doing or not doing and I imagine the registrar\u0027s are probably a little you know nervous about the idea of having to enforce what their customers are doing but as an experiment it sounds kind of interesting yeah and this is what it is this experiment I\u0027m gonna put my self in the queue and then close the queue at the end Adam Roach Adam Roach as an individual I wanted to make a couple of observations the first is so looking at the NS records you have like a limit of 255 by the time you 64 encode doesn\u0027t put in URL you\u0027re down about 160 and you look at your average vCard it\u0027s about four times that so that oh is it okay alright so the draft has a an example because that fits in a tuner okay as long as that\u0027s not a problem then yeah that\u0027s not a big just just repeating for the for the remote folks you\u0027re just reminding us that there is no restriction on the our data okay thanks the other thing I wanted to point out is that there is a lot of discussion right now about applicability of well using dot well-known for things that don\u0027t apply directly to the website as opposed to you know like this is this talk about the domain not the website yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s hardly a settled conversation but I would encourage you if you want to do work that uses dot well-known make sure you\u0027re on the art at ITF org list there\u0027s probably going to be a new list spun up to talk about this but it would definitely bear on whether what you\u0027re doing is going to be permissible or not yeah and and I that\u0027s something that I struggle with as well because if you have didn\u0027t have a if you didn\u0027t have a web server running on your the apex of your domain doubled up three or something exotic like that how it how would the the client know how to get it other than using the DNS actually just share the content that\u0027s called the previous speaker well expressing that just really an incentive for users to put in that data or maybe I don\u0027t see that incentive that may lead to incomplete or even inconsistent or wrong information and also like implying enforcing it by policies causing me some headaches you\u0027re absolutely great but how is that any different from whose yeah okay so and Jim Galvin speaking for myself what I like about this is I think as Scott was saying it looks like a nice experiment and and what I have in my mind is there are discussions on the on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:33:37",
    "text": "the gdpr side of things about there is this distinction between legal persons and natural persons and legal persons in some areas are required to expose some contact information and it occurs to me that this could be a nice solution to that you know if your domain name is associated with legal person you simply have to put the contact information out there for it and and that would settle everything then you don\u0027t have to do anything to the rest of the registration system so that that\u0027s at least my suggestion and all this I kind of like it from that point of view are you um so now coming back to being a chair you\u0027re putting it out here for right now are you going to ask for a working group adoption here or is that your urine tank it\u0027s gonna stay experimental so I think it\u0027s gonna go down the standards track I don\u0027t know I\u0027m not familiar enough with the processes of the ITF to know whether whether it needs to go it may be that as a strawman exercise just publishing as a draft and taking it to a few different places is enough to get the conversation moving that\u0027s that\u0027s really the idea behind it okay sounds good okay any other questions or comments I hope not that is that is true but if a registry so me gecko has kind of ended on us here so in fairness to others let me thank Kevin for bringing this up here and I think that as he said in the beginning you know you know this thing would need to exist in some kind of policy context so this work to be done here in discussions to be had and owe me deco seems to be back because antoine is there so that\u0027s good alright i guess that\u0027s it i don\u0027t really did anyone have any burning any other business that they have to bring up or can we end since we\u0027re already over and all the noes are going up so that\u0027s great thanks very much everyone the blue sheets are out there somewhere somebody hold them up please pass them to the front of the room if you haven\u0027t signed in please do and thanks everyone appreciate your being here and adam if i could get two minutes your time before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:37",
    "text": "you leave "
  }
]