[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:04",
    "text": "yawn dryness yeah or afternoon or something like that okay we might actually fit in this room there are chairs that are not know that they\u0027re still these people coming so yeah could you pass the blue sheets around please I\u0027m going to Mickey\u0027s mouth you know Mickey\u0027s handed no sticking up so I\u0027m going to start with a little bit couple of questions and some thoughts that might be useful to you guys I hope they are about every IETF meeting I wind up explaining to somebody how Ron and I choose our agenda so let me walk through just a little bit how we choose an agenda this thing that you\u0027re looking at is a little file that I have a script that I put together it\u0027s the same information that\u0027s in the data tracker it\u0027s organized in a way that I find useful if somebody cares I can make it available to them but but basically you have a list here of the internet drafts that we have in the working group and what their status is as of about eight o\u0027clock this morning so we\u0027ve got one that the RFC editor is banging away on we have a working group document that didn\u0027t get updated since the last I kept meeting and so on and so forth various individual submissions that did or did not get updated him since last meeting what Ron and I wind up looking for his documents that are somewhere in the working group which is to say working group documents or individual submissions that have been updated you know so that wind up being a subset of the drafts that were looking at here and which by the way so I\u0027m gonna pick one here I can go to the IETF site again find basically all of the comments that had been made on the thing and so I wind up here going through and looking at it there the others comments from Martin and Alejandro and Geordi and so on just a few weeks ago and you know the fair amount of discussion that\u0027s been "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "happening so what we\u0027re looking for is an updated draft or one one that is new since last night cap meeting and for which the comments that we see on the mailing list first off we see comments can that they\u0027re supportive that that people are saying this is something that I wanted to play my network I think this looks like a good idea can we chase this down can\u0027t and so you know so those are the the drafts that we wind up looking at in meetings here fYI I\u0027m pretty sure most of you heard that speech once before but but depth that\u0027s how Ron and I do it where\u0027s Ron well we have virtual Ron Ron is sitting next to me but he\u0027s often some other meeting right now this is the note well everyone who has never seen one of these things raise your hand and we get a can okay there it is let\u0027s hear what else did I give oh I\u0027ll talk about the agenda in a minute so this is the agenda that we have this morning we had one guy that came in and he wanted a asked for time this morning and he forgot to ask and so I included him as any other business and that\u0027s actually an opposite draft they\u0027re asking for review operational review on it so that\u0027s there but but listed as AOB you\u0027ll notice that there\u0027s one draft that there has been discussion on the list in the last couple months that isn\u0027t on the agenda reason it\u0027s not on the agenda is hasn\u0027t been updated recently and Jordy asked me if I would mind if if we could have a working group draft or I am working group last call on the the ten at sixty four recommendations deployment recommendation deployment guidelines draft so I\u0027m willing to do that do you guys think that let me just ask for a sense of the room do you guys think we\u0027re ready to go to work need replies call on that if so come if not come okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:05",
    "text": "so fine I\u0027ll ask for a working group last call Hey it probably won\u0027t do it next week I\u0027ll probably do it in two weeks and we\u0027ll do that so the the other question Jim is upset Jen has been hearing people say that operators don\u0027t show up you want data okay Jen wants data we keep hearing or we hear from time to time that operators don\u0027t show up here and funny thing we\u0027ve got an entire operational area we\u0027ve got operators that show up in various working groups in there she\u0027s just kind of curious how many people in this room represent operators or how many are operators okay I see 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 we have at least 14 operational people in their own foreign how are you defining operator I don\u0027t know you have to ask Jen oh hello I have a question yeah I\u0027ll try identify yourself you person standing at the mic ah Jarrod much ah come on networks we run a network amongst other things um if people are looking for data it would be helpful if somebody could quantify that and there\u0027s I think plenty of research opportunities and collaboration opportunities available so if if people can identify what sort of information they want you know we certainly publish data about what we see in the ipv6 space and we\u0027d be interested in publishing more if there\u0027s something that is of interest okay and of course in this particular question she\u0027s just wondering how many people were in a room so I saw 14 hands and I probably missed a few that okay so with that we have an operator boy I\u0027m not sure what that means okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:14",
    "text": "okay that actually works here and that has a pointer on it too right I\u0027m afraid to click it let\u0027s hear I see yeah sitting behind the screen I\u0027m Michael um and to quantify I\u0027m speaking for DTS we\u0027re running a project not necessarily like what\u0027s in the production Network at this point of time the largest one but we have been doing at 36 for quite a long time in in this project so what I\u0027m going to talk about here is a combination of what we\u0027ve seen in in the actual like I in service delivery network like it would in this project where we do mostly residential broadband I\u0027m also going to include experience I\u0027ve had working and interacting with our ipv6-only development environments like where we do we have get lab and we have quite a few other things that I interact with on a daily basis and I\u0027m also going to mention some things that I have noticed coming up in various activities six forums where people come and ask questions like I have problem I want to do this why could and so on I spend a bit of my leisure time helping people you know run into be successful so just an introduction to the the what we\u0027re doing here in the project so the I need to choose one to point okay so um okay so um will you run like a v6 only here there\u0027s a lightweight four over six tunnel going from here to the data center and that provides the v4 connectivity and then with its regular dual stack here and then we are dual stack over here but our data center is basically only ipv6 for most of the services so one of the problems we\u0027ve seen over time has been bugs or misbehavior in the relays of two of the vendors that were using we have four different vendors we\u0027ve spent a non-trivial amount of time debugging various dhcpv6 relays and the states that they need to keep in order to do the routing from from here to here so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:17",
    "text": "like the the the link local next hop route for the delegated prefix so some of them need to keep state here and this has not been trivial for some vendors to get right to specialist since we actually do three prefixes here that are algorithmically tied together um which has been one thing that I guess the implementations here didn\u0027t really expect so the client asks for three PD\u0027s of difference I don\u0027t remember what the identifier is but there is there are different identifiers we have machinery here in the DSP v6 server that um that uses this and it gives them three different prefixes so we\u0027ve seen realize that act as DHCP servers and sentry rejects and they didn\u0027t even relay it which is fun we\u0027ve seen the relay eat response packets because what came back from the server didn\u0027t agree with what the thing had in its existing state table and there are other very interesting behaviors that are that have been going on and so if you see on my list when I discussed like v6 I\u0027m kind of PTSD I\u0027ve posted my distress in the syndrome from from having to interact with this there\u0027s been quite a frustration um so we looked into this I\u0027ve discussed this multiple times again Ferrer my colleague he dug up this and I talked to all it Terron and then so on and this how this is should be done was ever never specified some people say this is it\u0027s obvious you don\u0027t need to specify it there\u0027s been a lot of discussion um so I also seen others that have gone to their vendors and said look we want to team implement the prefix delegation relay the vendor says sure comes back six months later yeah I just really like it just doesn\u0027t in solarops kind of meaningless with the pieces having a round to the the speedy relay and doesn\u0027t install a route to make the PD actually do anything this has happened I\u0027ve heard this story three or four times from different vendors Bernie volts just a quick question for you are you you know what what\u0027s the technology you\u0027re using from the home to relay or whatever you know cuz the cable environment for DOCSIS has gotten this you know done a pretty good job at defining this stuff I think that maybe you\u0027re using BMG\u0027s and other things and those have not done as good a job okay so this there is one VLAN there is a one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:17",
    "text": "broadcast domain and then it\u0027s a VLAN interface over here it\u0027s it goes on tagged here it get the ghost on tag here goes into these nets which then comes tagged and so then there is one sub-interface per customer here which is so there is one broadcast domain per customer facing port so this is IP over Ethernet okay so this looks like an I mean it can\u0027t really get much simpler this is I feel reason it so we\u0027re not doing any anything else magic okay um so yes I\u0027ve seen this so we\u0027ve had problems with it other people have had problems with this right so different problem spaces so we\u0027re using different prefixes to mean different things so we have video voice and best efforts the best effort this internet access video and voice you cannot talk to the internet on that that\u0027s that\u0027s not part of the internet offering so basically we do not want known aware clients to configure addresses from them so we\u0027ve done this in different over time in different ways we\u0027ve used deep CP and looked at the the identifiers that the clients are using and say oh should they get an address from this prefix or not so we are currently not for the general use we\u0027re not sending PIOs with the video and voice prefix to own like to general devices because they will just have leave configure themselves the addresses choose one and potentially doesn\u0027t like and Jen do tell us who you are Jenny in Cola for for what for prefixes when you do not want to be used to internet I could that we are currently not using you utilize no so the work before on provisioning domains in myth was when we were supporters of this work we try to progress that and so on but that didn\u0027t turn out very well the working group was I know it was close to high grade that or if there is a difference but it not an active working group anyway so did this this work is now going on in int area there\u0027s a draft they\u0027re discussing these six things v6 related things in int area is very different from discussing it on p6 ops this tells me that people who are very interested in v6 ops are not monitoring into our inte area in the way they should so I urge more people to pay attention to interior there\u0027s stuff going on there there is actually of interest that is relevant and you should monitor it okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:23",
    "text": "you can stay here and enjoy the interior okay so this this has we\u0027ve run into this in the data center so we use the same kind of multi prefix stuff for approach to do have different management in one domain for management one for like internet facing things and one for for instance the voice service so there is like the whatever it\u0027s their home indicate a gateway is talking sip to will have an address out of the voice prefix and that is not reachable from the internet and we\u0027ve had to do we had to beat the operating systems in very careful manners in order to get it to do what we needed to do this has changed between operating systems the versions of the operating systems as the different network managers or whatever is being used what they do so this has not been optimal I am seeing the same thing in other contexts where the so the Linux kernel now can do source based routing so if you run opened up your tea can do that there\u0027s just a lot of things going on and you can include the resolver you supply to it and this this also applies to when the host has a VPN for instance which should you choose what destination address you choose what resolver should have choose this is a mess we should work more on this this is causing me pain daily I would say and it\u0027s not just for me I\u0027ve seen others so the ula even mentioned there was one guy I was a help trying to help he wanted to use Yule A\u0027s for a certain for some some traffic um he was doing that 66 on the exit to do that didn\u0027t really go too much but anyway he wanted his devices to use the ula address to talk to the internet and like the whole source and destination address selection that that doesn\u0027t work on all devices so we can discuss all the didn\u0027t but that\u0027s what he tried to do and the the device only had usual a address didn\u0027t have a give you a address and it didn\u0027t want to use it this the v6 space at all and then he could change the guy conf on some operating systems but some didn\u0027t have this option so you couldn\u0027t even beat the operating system he said he looked into Android and in Android you just couldn\u0027t do this if you hand an Android device a ula address it was not use it to talk to the Internet and it\u0027s not configurable it says it\u0027s ok ok so anyhow I mean I\u0027ve thought about this like I know there are some DHCP options to do turn put give the hosts some kind of policy like a hint from the network like please do this I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:23",
    "text": "don\u0027t think we\u0027re even close to everything that we need in order to help the host to do what it needs to do in in certain you know situations this is also like PVD and permission you know domains connected again I would say the part of this is there a here as well any to you so we\u0027re one of those radical people who want to do empty empty you non positive to to everything currently today within the home we only do 1500 because the some of the some devices I\u0027ve seen so many different ways this is handled some some devices the wall like in the Nick driver we compiled without jumper frame support so the device will be 1500 I\u0027ve seen cases where a device the kernel thinks the device does at 9 K when it receives the packets that is over 2300 the package silently dropped on Wi-Fi as far as we can tell the standard only allows for 2300 byte packets you can\u0027t do bigger so what we\u0027re going to need in order to incrementally deploy this is for instance this multi MTU work or something else similar along those lines to be able to have bring your own devices things that have show up to have around 1500 to have something else around 9 K on the same row in the same broadcast to me next slide no that was this line so this is also a case in internet exchange points like some people don\u0027t want to enable Java frames on their devices others do you can have to - I spaced on one exchange jumbo frame traffic while some don\u0027t so this means again you\u0027re mixing and differently configured MTU on the NIC and M are you so you\u0027re silent to dropping packets if you\u0027re sending because this is typically done together so the maximum receive unit and the maximum transmit unit is usually follows each other on a lot of platforms so if you say 1500 the other guy is sending you a 15 a 1 byte packet the Nick\u0027s driver is gonna just drop this with a counter perhaps increasing pop them to discovery it doesn\u0027t catch this because it never reaches the hosts back so when people are saying you know the only problem is that all ISPs are stupid and filtering ICMP there are so many pathological cases where this doesn\u0027t happen I\u0027ve seen it like in my 20 years them to like deploying an MPLS network there were so many MT related problems in the beginning it was ridiculous and this is still a problem still not solved so there\u0027s work in on packet level of Pithom to discovery work it on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:23",
    "text": "in transport right T 3wg that is applicable okay and then we have the Richard so richard has an IPO ehealth draft that checks if the uplink is reachable and if the prefix delegation state is still installed so like if the state is wrong in the in the upstream router or you can detect this and ask for a renew or whatever you feel you want to do in order to detect this it also detects if if this is for whatever reason if you\u0027ve been moved to a different PNG or whatever um you can figure out that you need to restart basically treat this as an interface down event and restart again do solicit or whatever you need to do in order to establish the state again that you need for the forwarding to work so we try to mitigate this but by requiring the vendor to save the PD state at reboots and it should have a persistent database so you could crash this or something it should keep the state this doesn\u0027t always work we\u0027ve had bugs in that one as well this is not a problem for PPP because they\u0027re there keep a lot of timers and I guess session identifiers and so on so I mean it\u0027s not only that nobody\u0027s answering you you can actually tell that the other guy has lost state that for a while within minutes rate I\u0027m looking at for sure he\u0027s not in case Barbra\u0027s said okay Parvez not commenting so I don\u0027t think people have mentioned BFD here the problem is that if you\u0027re running VFD the both both participants need to understand 50 so this is now a feature request in both ends which has been hard to there\u0027s been a some opposition when it comes to that so the current proposal here is to actually pin yourself so the the home gateway here sends a packet to one of its own addresses or in the within the PD space with that guy MAC address so you ping yourself there this actually works a lot of people so the Linux stack here is not is not happy to receive packets from the outside with its own source address but this is the thing you can turn off and so we\u0027ve we\u0027ve done tests and this can be made to work this works for v4 as well but let\u0027s not discuss that in turn I\u0027ve also had had ideas about using I mean we have a neighbor on reach ability this mechanism why why aren\u0027t we using this like and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:23",
    "text": "this also could trigger the whole thing about was like okay so like I don\u0027t know if I mentioned right so with dhcpv6 and the Raa and endi are just completely decoupled so what do you do if your default gateway that you received a pre PD from becomes unreachable by detection of nd what do you do you do nothing as far as I know today you might deprecated your default route but you keep the prefix and say lalala I guess if you do if you remove your default product at least you\u0027re gonna send ICMP unreachable but it\u0027s like you\u0027re not gonna say oh I probably should you know try to on the sender router solicitation or you know ask for a renewal of the PD or you know check it is everything okay up there I don\u0027t know it\u0027s it\u0027s I don\u0027t think we have defined exactly what you\u0027re supposed to do so what goes on on with nd and Ra doesn\u0027t really influence anything you do with deep CP unless there\u0027s an interface down event which RC 7080 for says what you should do which is kind of all obvious so I think there is work to be done in that area as well um so we\u0027re we still feel that overall this is working pretty well I mean it\u0027s not like everything is some fire but I think there is a lot of optimization and improvement that can be done and that there\u0027s still work to be done so I know for actually decent emotive people in here I remember a few meetings ago we had an almost empty agenda and there was no not much workout but I still think that there is work going on might not be here it might be in six-man might be in other working groups but this is v6 ops I\u0027m gonna say this is that there\u0027s work overall to make a good work and I think that was yes so discussions Tomatoes Jenko thank you very much that\u0027s awesome I I totally agree right I think you\u0027re doing such an unusual thing here I think terms of how many interesting things you\u0027re doing which most of the v6 deployment just haven\u0027t experienced the other right that\u0027s why you\u0027ve seen so when I was a shoes right and I agree we need to probably do some kind of gap analysis and document what needs to be done to make the protocol more about the multi variable and yeah I\u0027m like would be happy to help and I agree it should be actually in v6 ops because it will not necessarily have to change the protocol maybe we should in some cases because it\u0027s causally related to discussion for fernanda\u0027s draft for remembering die and I just I just sent this money on can email which is causally related to your slide yeah what we can do to make it working better without necessary heating the whole "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:23",
    "text": "neighborhood is covered with a hammer right so there is one more thing also about the PV DS I have four VMs running at home just because I have three different VPNs I need to talk to VPNs don\u0027t interact nicely with other VPNs running on the same host this is this is a problem that many people must have and we just haven\u0027t solved it and it could be solved by the PVD work yes oh yeah I totally agree is that all the story about host having more than one address and trying to try talking to different destination it\u0027s not really solved yet right it is not not softly liable and it\u0027s not only addresses it\u0027s like resolvers you know it\u0027s all old things dirty palate I agree with Jen and I am I am wondering and we had this conversation yesterday when talking about the six random thing again maybe it\u0027s not just deployment guidelines which clearly in the scope of this working group but also implementation guidelines and I am not really sure if that\u0027s in the scope of the working group or it makes sense to read chapter to include that because there there is a lot of close relation between what both of them word parameter settings would that be in scope for these exams well if if we have something that tells us there are there\u0027s a parameter and you know might have five values then yes what what is the current setting or what is the appropriate setting might be a basic substance if you\u0027re asking for a parameter yeah I think you need to talk and Vava noise if I need a new one but to say if you\u0027re doing this then you should set it to that value if you\u0027re doing that yeah yeah how about that like where would be a deployment guideline yeah but what I am what I am actually meaning is implementations in the sense of for example open wrt to a lot of these things correctly but many vendors are not doing well so maybe we need to say hey what this document is saying is you should do your implementation probably this way because other implementations work well so please consider implementing correctly yeah exactly but if you if you don\u0027t explain to some people they are not going to understand what is the problem on how to implement correctly right understood and certainly that would be within our Charter tell making operational comments about stuff would be within our Koerner Eric wine yeah we should definitely make bug bug free a must you you must not have any bugs oh right okay I agree so I would go a little bit further than the the PVD I think actually the PVD is the only way to solve these problems also did you check out the latest uh probably github only "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:24",
    "text": "version of the universal RA I have looked at it yes I submitted something that at the early poll that was okay I would lay em to you in an R I oh right this has been one of my proposal people I think we have discussed this but I would like to be able to say that route has that empty you so basically to say my land has this empty you and the implicit default route that you learned by receiving the RA could have a different deputy yeah because I mean the Linux kernel supports it I don\u0027t know but other operating systems but that would help belong I\u0027m not sure that\u0027s expressed or Trece bull in the in the current state of the universal re document also the you said that the device closest to the Ethernet there is a Linux box the home gateway is a Linux box the only gate square here is a little boxes right so you can actually monitor net link meant link for changes in the neighbor state for the Rooter but I just put it back into probe right like you can actually manually put it in a probe the kernel will take care of it send send the probes and you can observe the failure yeah right so the thing I would need to do and this is like I wanted us to write if we should do that we should kind of come up with the best common practice and so on and come up words criteria for when should you consider this an interface down event bring it bring it down and start going back into deep CPV SiC solicit and you know restart the entire machinery right right so yeah a long time ago this was an issue that we were talking about with the the RS resiliency stuff it was there was actually three parts to it there was a resiliency on the on the front end and then there was like re arcing every after you haven\u0027t heard any re is for a while and we never did and we did differ if it has that work so so I think that there was work to be done there and it might not be here but there might need six-man it might be something else I don\u0027t know but I think this is a gap but it needs to improve Thank You partner hi martynuk you have mentioned at the beginning of presentation that dhcp or it doesn\u0027t always put her out in the routing table you have similar problems and when we used just a DHCP server which also doesn\u0027t usually include there I think and we actually seen some operators sewing this through the hooks but there\u0027s also add row before when the devices are not every time using link local address from generated from mac address so I just wanted to mention that this problem is also with the DHCP servers great I\u0027ve had that happen to me myself as well when I try to start doing this ten fifty years ago and I still see people joining this social myth in the IRC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:25",
    "text": "channel I mean complaining about that exact thing so opened up Ruti has a lot of these bindings between things going on so the PD install route do allocate addresses and so if you just download at each p v6 server it has none of these hooks that you were talking about then people were implementing themselves if you\u0027re running a standard Linux box yeah also this implementation not always works in because of these link local addresses some things that it\u0027s supposed that end user would use brightness and device but I mean this that\u0027s actually not a problem with the DDT HP server itself because it works right as a DHCP server it\u0027s just the implications of what it\u0027s doing it\u0027s it\u0027s not happening so yeah sure okay other thoughts and comments hearing none thank you very much Jordi and I need to figure out how one goes to the gate on a slime far as I know ask google about them okay so to give you a little bit of context on this on this document we have a colleague in Argentina Alejandro which started deploying ipv6 in his network the provider name is Stella Centro and they are they have a cable cable network and they started with stool stack deployment but of course they have the problem of running out of ipv4 addresses so they started investigating and actually starting with small pilot for for 64 X lat and they told me hey I have a problem with this because I am a big operator I have CD ins I have caches from different providers and if I use 4 6 4 X lat it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:25",
    "text": "means all the traffic from ipv4 only devices will be translated by the not 64 which of course it happens as well in the summer networks if you have tethering and ipv4 only devices so this is a problem that it has been here and we didn\u0027t realize it before so he asked it in the mailing list in b6 ops I think it was beginning of March I need a solution for this and I was thinking well maybe we can do that the same way as separators are doing for this doesn\u0027t work very well this okay so I keep going meanwhile so so the thing is that in the case of category not there is a prefix which is hundred dot 64 is less than I think if I recall correctly yeah 164 does 10 and some Syrian provides interfaces to their customers for for not needing this traffic to be translated by the career Reina okay so I was thinking let\u0027s try to do the same in in in the case of 4 6 4 X lat and actually it may work as well I still need to investigate a little bit more but it may work as well in other cases that use also sit for the net 46 like map T right so this is a typical 4 6 for X lat and if we have a dual stack CDN it will be somehow connected because most of the Syrians today and caches have already dual stack it will be connected to the isp network the operator and also to the ipv4 network they sorry too but today pv6 and ipv4 networks of the operator right so we have a customer which has lands with dual stack we have the CP with the salaat and then we have the ipv6 only network and as an option it may be also dns64 in addition to the regular DNS we have here the necessity for so that\u0027s that\u0027s the global architecture of this and this is very similar or mopti but in that case we have here a border relay right so what happens if we have an ipv6 device in the customer lands everything will be going which ipv6 so they flow into any site BB six only that\u0027s perfect that\u0027s an optimal situation what happens if I have which is very common today I add I have actually asked at Samsung can you provide ipv6 in the model of a smart TV that you release it last week no we don\u0027t plan it will be a new model maybe two years from now so that means that we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:26",
    "text": "have set the boxes and a Smart TV stand all kind of devices that will be IP before only for a while okay so in this case if we use the standards that we have today for four six four X lat and map and so on we will have this ipv4 traffic here it gets translated by the salaat it goes to the net 64 green is of course ipv6 red is happy before and then it go using the ipv4 interface of the dual stack CDN okay so we have this kind of ipv4 to ipv6 to ipv4 flow and we have yes a stateless translation if the salaat is well design it and then we have a stateful translation in the nest 64 now what I am trying to do is let\u0027s try to do this because this boy is already translating us to ipv6 why cannot reach directly the CDN which ipv6 okay and an obvious possibility for doing that okay this is this is a summary of the of the different situations we have the situations where devices are using ipv6 and that\u0027s optimal situations where we have ipv4 only devices which need two translations and then that will be the optimal situation so we do only one translation here and we can use the addressing space that is being used by this translation for the dual stack CDN okay so I think we have three possibilities at least I was able to to think on three options to resolve the problem one of them is exactly the same is being done for Carol grenade boxes so using the private addressing space which in this case is not private is they not 64 prefix either they well-known or the network specific prefix and then confirm the interfaces of the CDN with that prefix this bulwark but require Gore from the operators of the Syrians okay so some of them I already doing for APB\u0027s 484 but not all of them agree in doing this as well for a pv6 they said this means work we will charge the customers for that okay so that\u0027s set by one of these operators I have not been able to talk which one of them even if I ping at all of them didn\u0027t got too many responses at the moment so this case also problem if the CDN is sitting on the network of the brighter that will work but what happens if the city omission and IX because the ISP don\u0027t have sufficient traffic we cannot run the not 64 or as in theory we should not do that through the connection with the X right so that\u0027s that\u0027s the difficulty that they see with this choice let\u0027s say this is approach number one approach "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:27",
    "text": "number two we have in sit which is what 4 6 4 X lat is using in the silat which is the translation from not 4 to 6 or not 4 6 we have already a shoot for another standard which is explicit address mapping table okay so that means that instead of telling the translator to use the net 64 prefix we can tell the translator hey I have already here a quite a record in my Syrian why you doing you don\u0027t use that record for the translation you understand that you got that so the idea is for example if I am trying to reach a website from a smart TV that has this a wrecker and also the website is dual-stack it and has this ipv6 address let\u0027s have a way for the salaat to make automatically an entry in the explicit addressing mapping table for this connection so what this means is that this Blissett address mapping entry will be having the destination for this ipv4 address going to use the real quad a record for the Sirian instead of using day not 64 and that means that by the for routing it will reach directly without needing an additional translation now in this approach what I am suggesting is let\u0027s make because the cities usually have and in fact in the in the new document that we approve it on it\u0027s in the in the SG sorry is in the RFP Kiwi for de P before as a service cities we said they must have a DNS proxy okay so why not asking the CPE when it detects a device that is asking for an a record and not asking for a quite a record what that means it means that the device is ipv4 only so let\u0027s make automatically the CP to verify if there isn\u0027t quite a record and make that entry what is the impact on that not but impacts the only thing is if somebody\u0027s changing the DNS of the Smart TV it will not work but usually nobody changed the DNS of the Smart TV if somebody\u0027s changing the DNS in the CPE is still working okay so there is not a negative impact at Lee "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:28",
    "text": "I can not see that yeah Michael Abramson so Google chromecast has been known to use a date a date without you even if you give it something else via DHCP I they might not be alone so I they use their so Google Chrome and you I know the people who are yeah a there is a chromecast if you if you hand it a deed to your local resolver it will still use eight eight eight eight to do resolving no problem this still works that\u0027s what is essentially there is a problem it\u0027s just obeying its configuration then it that\u0027s the same thing as doing manual but it\u0027s just that the vendor is doing this and not the user it\u0027s not using your local resolver it\u0027s talking to something on the internet to do the resolving okay so it\u0027s not check well but in this case that traffic will be a still translated twice but either I am not breaking it right red curry so it\u0027s not gonna be optimized exactly it\u0027s not going to be optimized but the still will work right yeah sure it March Akamai there\u0027s ongoing effort to go and take a lot of this stuff away from host level control and push it into application level control for DNS queries and so this technique well it works for host level controls and I\u0027m kind of wondering this is a this is maybe off topic for this working group but this is going on kind of in the in the general multi DNS area there\u0027s a number of DNS working groups looking at this and I\u0027ve started to wonder whether or not there it might be time to look at updating some of the host behavior RFC stuff because options that you get handed from you know DHCP server or whatever may be ignored at the application layer and and in this case the chromecast is a unified device where it has these hard-coded settings but there may be other people or applications that have hard-coded settings which are going to interfere with this but even if that\u0027s the case the thing is we are not breaking anything at least optimizing part of the traffic and I think that\u0027s important for any operator right so you\u0027re telling me that you\u0027re not breaking anything exactly even in that case this is not breaking anything the application behaved the application and host layer interactions are currently changing and certainly the standards work that\u0027s happening here at the IETF is transitioning in that direction this is something that I think people should generally be aware of because it may have implications in other areas such as if you\u0027re implementing these types of technologies yeah I understand that we we need to do for interactions which quids TNS changes that\u0027s that\u0027s clear okay so that\u0027s let\u0027s call this approach number two and then I have number three "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:30",
    "text": "number three is basically the same as number two but instead of being the CP the one creating the EMT it\u0027s created or push it or pull it by the CP from the operator okay so that bandage is the operator has more control but increased complexity okay because it means the operator need to do something and probably we need to find which protocol to use to send this table to the CP or to be able to get the CP getting that table from the operator okay so I really think that the best choice and the one that is not breaking anything but at least is optimizing some traffic and smart TVs have a lot to do with Netflix YouTube and things like that and what I have research at is that Smart TVs at least are not using any other dns than the one that they get from the network itself from the DHCP it will work and that\u0027s a lot of optimization that\u0027s I think it\u0027s interesting at least even if we can only solve that that point what it means basically that the document that we have today for 464xlat should be updated to say hey you need to support explicit address mapping tables which it\u0027s already a shoot in sit ok so it\u0027s not that much difficult in my opinion and because we have just released the document waiting for the RFC number that is telling the operators sorry babe benders do dip the sea peas like this I think is the right time to say hey in addition four six four o\u0027clock should support this okay I think it\u0027s not too far away that we can let\u0027s say kill two birds with a stone right or almost in the right time now and this was something that I discovered during the flight from Madrid to here I realize it okay what happens if those Smart TVs want to talk with ipv6 only services in Internet because I guess it\u0027s clear for everyone in the room that our target is to drop by before as soon as possible for all the places and in many data centers that\u0027s already happening they are solving the problem by using CDC or other mechanism but the consequence of using this implementation that I mentioned for approach number two is that if we create a nail record in a service even if the service is ipv6 only and not connected to it before the salaat will do the same work and then we will have an automated transition mechanism IP before only to ipv6 only what happens when we create an a record that is not existing that if a user which an ipv4 only device is trying to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:31",
    "text": "access will not get the webpage but that\u0027s what will happen today we if we don\u0027t do nothing because you are trying to connect from ipv4 only to ipv6 only okay now one further idea and this is maybe too crazy is this a record may be pointing to specific address hosted by ITF I can the registries whatever to say hey you are trying to access an ipv6 only service grid which you write ISPs not offering okay that\u0027s that\u0027s an additional crazy idea but come on at the end this user which I pee before is not going to to access this service anyway so it\u0027s it\u0027s somehow a way also to push people hey knock the ISP do you know offer ipv6 why not I am going to switched on a new one so I got some inputs from from from Syrians you have a question regarding that yeah if you don\u0027t mind III didn\u0027t understand Oh Dave Wonka yeah come on in do I understand correctly that in this option 2 or the scenario you want the recursive server to make a determination if a v4 client is before only yes how it\u0027s gonna do that if you are a duelist a client today you will ask for the quatrain record in two different questions yes ok if I asked for the a how long are you gonna wait for me to ask for quality I had not defined at the timing right now I think we can use the same timings that we are using for happy Abel\u0027s and exactly the same the dual-stack client can ask from two different addresses as well it could ask for the quad-a from a before you could ask for the quad-a from a v6 but that\u0027s for that so I don\u0027t think you can tell that a client on your land is before only I mean you can make us say because you are asking for a single name you are asking for www.example.com and then you are asking for the quat a and they a this is what happy a wants us doing toast act I might just ask for the a unjust maybe for address and you\u0027ll think I\u0027m before only when I\u0027m goes there I just I\u0027m not sure you can tell that in that way but if that happens if that happens will still work because we are going to provide him they quite a real quite a record we need we may need to work again on that but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s clear Michael Abraham\u0027s yes so you can probably create heuristics and figure out how to do this but and I think the the reason you want to do this is the downside is that you lose the optimization and if you\u0027re right then things will work better so the worst case is the Curtiss what we do today and the better case is some optimization right so there "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:32",
    "text": "is very little downside to be wrong yeah Jeff used to just has really said that because you\u0027re wrong okay this isn\u0027t your mother\u0027s DNS and if you think two consecutive queries will invariably go to the same resolver engine that\u0027s what your mother thought it\u0027s not what happens today you are really far off the way we now do dns in bulk even down near the user so this idea that somehow a memory about the nature of query a can also reflect the new query B does not apply anymore so you\u0027re right but but this is exactly the they\u0027re saying that happy a boss is doing so what I am trying to do is somehow implementing happy able Sunday no happy eyeballs in many cases asks for the a and the chordae from different resolver engines okay okay just think about that different resolver engines I can see you\u0027re thinking it\u0027s working okay so any any way if we do this the risk and that\u0027s where we need to be very very sure that we don\u0027t break anything is precisely that in this case because he\u0027s an ipv4 only device it done has a back a fallback like in the case of happy able so that\u0027s that\u0027s what we need to be safe seems only way you can solve this Dena\u0027s problem is to make sure you CP is your resolve whereas NCP might have some logic about knowing which client is before only but providing cow broke and CPUs I it\u0027s not gonna happen on the other hand come on if before works roars and wishes that\u0027s okay I don\u0027t mind okay I am Not sure I am not sure if if I miss it to to explicitly say that what I am trying to make is the CP having a DNS solver a proxy DNS to infer that information so I\u0027m not sure we can clarify later in the mailing list or whatever but I think I think it\u0027s obvious that if the proxy is the salaat itself it\u0027s able to know if there is a an ipv4 only device or an application that is ipv4 only even if the device is dualistic I may be wrong but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s Agra I\u0027m wrong okay so but basically that\u0027s that\u0027s it microwave Renzo\u0027s so what about doing traffic statistics I mean if you\u0027re talking to if you\u0027re talking to an ipv4 address a lot if this is for streaming video I mean you might be talking to a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:32",
    "text": "few places you could look into correlating this on just the IP layer and just looking at the traffic because I mean you\u0027re instead of using the DNS correlation okay you could do that as well I don\u0027t know but I think you mean prototype this and see if it works with a bunch of devices and see how well it works well I stood it already in open wrt okay what was the result yeah and it worked there it works it works so I use it jewel in open wrt and it work it so additional questions just mentioned yeah so all this like static map ends have some corner cases if Deena\u0027s response actually changed right so you need to like be very careful with this because you know there is no guarantee your v6 address you I also talked five minutes ago with the same address you should be talking right now it goes in the slides I didn\u0027t mention but I think that what is missing today in the empty table is a TTL I think we should assume the TTL from the VNS obviously okay so if you get if you create an entry in the in the M the table what is the time life for that entry they want from the DNS quite a record response what are going to do when you have more than one what day for a given a if you have multiple mappings didn\u0027t look at into that maybe just take the first one I don\u0027t know or create I need to look into that Jerrod notch Akamai we happen to give out multiple answers when you ask for an A or quad a it would be good if you had an appropriate load bouncing algorithm similar to what many DNS server self well thank you thanks the second person of the document that\u0027s zero one already included Alejandra\u0027s Walter because he also said that he may be able to try in his in his test bed as well I am considering that maybe we need to change the title because actually is talking about four six four X lat and I think it can apply to other environments where you are using an ad for six terms later in the CP and and that\u0027s it I also the question of becoming working or item if you think that that is something to to pursue or additional inputs we will need to look into the comments that it will not work or look into other ways to determine if they host this ipv4 only questions more questions more Tomatoes well I I do think that Fred just speaking for myself "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:36",
    "text": "but changing in the title for six for X let\u0027s in at 64 that makes sense yeah because that it\u0027s a open open to other possibilities yes well I mean if you change it to a native ipv6 address it will never go through a peel app so it won\u0027t be 46 Forex lot yeah exactly K so just make it be math six for what I would suggest you know we\u0027re kind of running short on time for your slaughter but I\u0027ll open up a you know let\u0027s discuss this for a week and yelling what would be helpful in that timeframe you you say you have a prototype if you could kind of do a right describing yep describe that prototype and describe your results in an email that would probably be nipple so thank you okay thank you again now are you going to talk about the transition comparison or okay now I have to once again figure out how one does okay that\u0027s a timeline yeah hello I am Richard Patterson I\u0027m one of 14 operators in the room and this document is a well the title is a little bit different to what\u0027s in the actual document that\u0027s a comparison of the possible methods you can use for ipv4 as a service the overall goal for this document is to collate all this information around the various methods into one one place it\u0027s to then highlight the the benefits and the detriments of each of them and to provide provide an operator with all the information they should need to to make an informed decision around which technology suits their network the best so we\u0027ve decided to focus on the five most popular or the current technologies that we see and just plain ignore the the alternatives and the legacy ones that we we deem unpopular so the document is broken down into few stations it starts off with obviously an overview and and the basic comparison of each of them of each five methods before "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:37",
    "text": "going into a bit more bit more of the architecture and then the detail of each of these technologies we didn\u0027t go down into even further detail around the differences between them the current supports so what\u0027s what\u0027s available today in the current CPAs or not sort of and possibly the regulatory concerns that one may have over the other v4 address sharing isn\u0027t a separate section on itself there\u0027s an important topic that does get discussed throughout the document as mentioned ipv4 address sharing is quite prevalent through this document it\u0027s quite a common we commonly used when providing ipv4 service because who wants to give everybody a single ipv4 address these days we talked about the location of where that the traditional stateful napped for for happens be it in on the CPA or further in the network we talked about the the differences or the trade-offs between the staple and staple stateless versions where you can which ones dynamically assigned port ranges or they are predetermined algorithmically and following on for that we talk about again the issues that some of them may have with the logging requirements that certain regulatory areas Dean required we then also talked about which ones have the capability of allowing unsolicited inbound packets which ones don\u0027t we then get into the performance and scalability of these methods we talked about again we talked about where stateful vs. stateless may be better we talked to talked about load balancing load sharing between the different devices the gateways which ones can be deployed and then anycast topology we\u0027d also talked about which ones are how they are typically used today so for example for 6 for X left in a mobile environment but as Jory mentioned before you can also deploy that in a in a CPU gateway we we highlight the provisioning options each one of them has whether there are existing dhcpv6 options to configure the devices whether there\u0027s a yang model where there\u0027s radius attributes that sort of thing and then a brief brief security considerations mentioned certain things like the code size of each implementation and how they differ and that so those are the overall the key things that I think we mentioned in the document and I think a key we\u0027ve had some changes since the last revision and that you may have heard this being presented about the last ITF Ian has joined us as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:37",
    "text": "co-author there\u0027s been some additional details and figures added to the description of the of each of the technologies there was some restructuring around the description moves into a separate section as well and then with completely rewritten the high-level architecture and their consequence section and also whole bunch of other additions throughout the detailed analysis section there\u0027s still quite a bit that we want to do in this document there\u0027s a bunch of performance and scalability analysis that we want to do there\u0027s that 81:9 methodology of get Bors I think Gabor has a PhD student I believe that\u0027s implemented a stateless now 6:4 testa I believe he\u0027s uh he\u0027s going to try and find another student to do some stateful nat64 tester told him as well but I think he has also made a request for anybody who would like to help develop some tooling to help tests these transition technologies he would be very very keen to hear from you a bit more work in the security side of things around there as well so he\u0027s also got another methodology that\u0027s referenced they are they we\u0027re planning on using I also like to have a small section around why we just excluded the the other aforementioned legacy technologies and anything else that you guys may feel that we should include in the document it would be happy to hear from you now or on the list and I think that\u0027s it yeah that\u0027s it so yep still gonna keep working on it there\u0027s gonna be some more revisions coming through I do think the authors were looking to ask if there was support for this as a worthwhile document I think Fred you actually posed the topic of this document initially I\u0027m sorry I think you proposed the totnes draw this document topic list originally so it came out of the discussion I\u0027m not sure I was the guy who wrote that email but he was certainly there so my question for you is what do you want to happen to the document next in the working group what what what do you need for the working group at this point so I think two if the original goal at the start the slides was to provide a single reference point for an operator I went through myself a while ago trying to do this analysis myself and work out which ones we should be looking at the point so if I had had this document two years ago it would have made my well would have saved me a lot of time and helped me out quite a lot so I think that\u0027s my personal goal for it is to help people like me who had to make this decision so I want to make sure we capture everything that we can so I would like to see some more discussion "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:37",
    "text": "around if people think we are missing some key points and help us get all that information into this document that you think is useful so maybe it\u0027s a question for the other 13 operators in the room what do they think seems like at least part of what we\u0027re I just a random bird sitting on the wall and thinking about such things I might say so which one should I be using please and you wind up with the discussion of the trade-offs for example with like light weight for over six and what terror stream is using if all of your all of your CD CDP\u0027s are or CDs are in a data center and that all works if you\u0027re doing translation such as Alejandro is doing that might not work and are you know if they are local to where their residences it might not work and so what are the trade-offs that would lead you to choose light weight for over sex versus translation for example be able to give people some guidance saying you know we have experience that says thinking this direction here of the trade-offs absolutely I\u0027ll just so there are there\u0027s also a lot of subjective things in here as well so we mean like I like it yeah pretty much I mean so if you if we were to ask Michael Laurie and they prefer the encapsulation version so if I wait for over six as well they don\u0027t always I\u0027m less against translation so I\u0027m looking for a map t approach so it\u0027s just some ideology things they\u0027d have to well we haven\u0027t really captured but I\u0027m not sure how to capture those who make over MC so some of the practical decisions one has to make also has to do with platform support for different methods and so on I think that\u0027s gonna be hard to capture because now all of a sudden you\u0027re starting to talk about a consistent on-chip persons you know from different vendors and so on um I still think it\u0027s a very useful document and I agree with with Richard here this I get this question there every couple of months or something like that and it would be very nice to have this kind of document to point to because I still think it\u0027s helpful it\u0027s not gonna solve the entire thing but it\u0027s gonna bring you partly you know down the road of at least you get an overview about what is the industry doing but I mean I\u0027ve talked to vendors like oh we do this like why you would we do anything else and I don\u0027t know if we can capture that kind of like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:37",
    "text": "what\u0027s most widely deployed um it\u0027s also I\u0027ve done this myself beaten the vendor over his head and got gotten them to do what I needed which is also an approach but uh I still think whatever is what\u0027s in there right now is useful as an overview so I think we should continue with this work and I think is very useful geordie palette and speaking as one of the elders about four years ago I I had the same question for for many of my customers and people that I am just trying to help and I had time to do a presentation in a latnok meeting and I said okay let\u0027s try to compile all the information of the different ipv4 service in a table and I created that that table which basically is what we are trying to do of course we are now looking into more details that I didn\u0027t realize it at the time but I I think if we don\u0027t have this document what it means basically is that any operator that want to choose a transition mechanism for ipv6 only an eye peeled for the service need to root to read and understand all the details of every one of the documents that we have on those transition mechanism this document clearly facilitates a lot that that work and that was my reason to say when fret or who who was in the mailing list about this que I will join the effort because I already started that effort on my own a few years ago I really think it\u0027s very useful and I got a lot of people reading the document and telling me yes this is this is this is nice I don\u0027t know how much we can say in the document and I am Not sure myself if the performance and scalability measurements and security things and that should be in a different document because that means probably we are going to delay what we already have which in my opinion is almost on and that\u0027s why I think we should I\u0027m for working group item those testing will take a lot of time and the people need this now not one year from now yeah so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a useful document in some some degree so I disagree with the majority someone who is doing his work he has to read all the pointers who are in this in only I would say a starter and there\u0027s some and of index and then you have to zoom into the details technologies to understand what is behind so it provided just a piece we don\u0027t know how yeah it\u0027s just a first first a first view of the available I would say alternatives but if you need to I would say to make your own decision you have to understand yeah yeah yeah yeah so you have you have to read that you have to understand the subs of this between all these I would say this proposals actually in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:38",
    "text": "proposal they are not five then or only two they are there\u0027s only the net based one and E Plus P so if you have this kind of category there people won\u0027t be surprised when you open the document you say ah there\u0027s a lot of a proposal there so it\u0027s just a matter I would say on present in the material the material is useful in some in some degree it\u0027s not among that we to have but it\u0027s nice to have but then you have to understand the subtlety behind each of them yeah yeah sorry I don\u0027t I think a lot of operators I\u0027m trying to be careful with what I say they\u0027re not gonna spend the time going down and reading all these individual RFC\u0027s exactly half the time they won\u0027t even look they\u0027ll just do what the vendor tells them they\u0027ll say hey yeah we support this that\u0027s really great you should use it fine if there\u0027s a recommendation in this document but in this document they want your recommendation yeah we were trying to keep it as we were trying to keep it as unbiased as possible like I was saying before we each each of the the co-authors have their own experiences both good and bad with with either all of them or some of these technologies so you come from the Vanek um I think I\u0027d like to see this become adopted as a working group document because it\u0027s an important decision-making document for someone who\u0027s about to want to deploy um over the last year and my team will be running some kind of hot desk for operators what is it by ATV 6-0 of them start that decision by going to read the RFC for Marty none of them so I think this is going to be useful document for decision-making and then you know the details can people can always refer to the respective RFC see that\u0027s quite okay can hang on a second hang on a second we\u0027ve got a guy in hello um so it\u0027s one of the co-authors on the most recent version that what we\u0027ve been trying to do here is as mentioned is to remove anything around objective kind of things and just and just boil it down to this is these are the king points and this is the stuff that you need to know as part of the decision-making and things which are demonstrable facts as much as is possible inherent in the different approaches and I think if you can do this you know I mean that the things like logging are they\u0027re going to be deal breakers with some of the things if you you know if your regulatory your local law regulation says you need to do this kind of logging here that will exclude certain mechanisms from there there\u0027s no point in going on reading the RFC\u0027s there and trying to puzzle through how do you know what the implications of all of those kind of things is they\u0027re just fundamentally not capable of it and so you know the idea was to try and keep the comparison between things as things which are just demonstrable facts and they see these are the characteristics this is the stuff that you need to know if you can use that to thin out what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:39",
    "text": "worth considering then you you know it would probably save you a load of work and a load of thinking it would otherwise have to do okay Julian ko-jack I will just like to disagree with the statement that every operator needs to go and read all RFC\u0027s I remember a long time ago when I was just started participating in the show business I went and I Rea I tried to read the ispf RFC and it was not the best way to make a choice about IGP you\u0027re gonna use in your network right yeah yeah it\u0027s like I don\u0027t think every operator has to go and we go deeper and deeper and deeper they might if they want but to make the educate a choice of what you know what you to use they don\u0027t have to read every single IETF document so I think this is very useful work to provide some summary and starting point making a decision okay and by the way I need to cap the line after yonder many Cisco from NTT communications are down operator I love reading RLC then uh yeah so I support these tourists regard also if it\u0027s very useful to decision-making then that one quick comment so RFC six eight eight eight which is the CPU one to seven if the common requirements for Cali agreed not so he took it was to be rethought from this debate so sorry I missed that will kiss repeat the question RAC six 888 about como requirement oh great not it was to be referred from this draft will swim refers to be repart referred to okay yeah yeah please okay hey Richard young George looking for Internet Society but speaking on Mike in my own capacity and also as as the best color operational practice Task Force co-chair a tribe I think this is really really interesting work that you are doing there and I would suggest if you can join us in Reykjavik meeting that we also discuss this this list at the personal operational practice Task Force where you have where they have even more operators than again then in this room but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s good that\u0027s that it gets discussed in in in both places good job okay so now let me ask a question we actually have a document the title of which is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:40",
    "text": "guidelines for using night bg6 transition mechanisms during ipv6 deployment yari Arco and I wrote that about eight years ago and it\u0027s probably due for an update but it raises the question should this draft perhaps be considered to obsolete and replace that draft if so then I think you need to address at least the issues that are in that draft um don\u0027t learn at that RFC and that\u0027s something that we can discuss what I\u0027ll do is I\u0027ll send a note to the list saying what do you think I should just be working group document that that\u0027s the way we you try to do these things anyway so that\u0027ll happen in a few weeks and you\u0027ll see that when it comes it sounds like at least here on the floor that there\u0027s a fair amount of support for that so did anybody else have any other comments on this right now failing that we\u0027ll go out to the list okay cool thank you slack\u0027s reaction to the numbering a dunce this is after Robo green eyes okay okay so this is Fernando percent in the document flux reaction to remember event events this is a document that we co-author with young source and discussion so far has happened mostly on both mailing lists on six men and be six ops for the most part we wanted to you know press in the document on p6 ops to get feedback from operators in particular we try to do our best to post an announcement of the document on on relevant operator mailing lists so what\u0027s this document about I mean there have been like a lot of discussion on the mailing lists over thirty three hundred messages so the short version of it is that there are a number or scenarios in which the you might have slack hosts and the slack network configuration information may become stale without the host on the network becoming aware about that this is just one of the scenarios in which this might happen there are others this is let\u0027s say the most common one in which and it\u0027s obviously a quite common ipv6 deployment scenario in which you have the CPU router that does DHCP prefix delegation with the ISP and the CPU router announces some prefix of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:40",
    "text": "list prefix on the on the local network so nothing complex about that now what happens for example in scenarios where the CPU runner crashes and reboots for example well there are quite a lot of cases in which the CPU rudder doesn\u0027t keep state information about the prefix that had been previously list and in cases where there is P thus dynamic prefixes which means that prefix is not guaranteed to be you know stable the CPU router might actually get a different prefix done before ok if the CPU rather didn\u0027t actually record the previously leased prefix on stable storage it might have you know no no no state information no idea about you know the prefix that has been leased before so it will essentially advertise the new prefix on the local network meaning that you know the notes on the local network we just configure another is for the new prefix but nothing happens with the previous address the previous computer address or the previous configuring prefixes the result of that is that normally the old addresses are maintained the old roads are maintained like if there was a prefix that was considered on link it will continue being considered on link the old addresses might be preferred that\u0027s implementation dependent but they might you know employ the addresses that you know were first configured and of course the result of that is for example that v6 connectivity might fail if it\u0027s a v6 only scenario that might be just you know play failure and that\u0027s it if it said we\u0027ll start scenario and you know that\u0027s an application that implements happy eyeballs well that might mean that things work over before but not over ipv6 deployments that may avoid this problem on one hand now you have sites that use stable or persistent or whatever you want to call them prefixes of course you know the problem here is that you know for example in the case that I just described when the CPU rather reboots the problem is that it gets different profits without knowing that you know there was it previous another prefix being used on the local network or don\u0027t use leave the perfect doesn\u0027t change you know the problem doesn\u0027t even come up there are multiple reasons for which that might not be the case I mean there are many among all of the possible ones are there that there are is peace that want to charge for persistent or stable prefixes but there are others and another case that you know my kind of like avoid this problem to some extent is the case of cps that record on stable storage the prefix that has been leased so the idea is that if you have a CP it records on stable storage the prefix that was leased before then if it crashes and reboots it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:41",
    "text": "has to some extent the ability to actually deprecated the previous prefix so it could send RA an RA on the local network with a prefer lifetime of 0 so that at least when it comes to new communication instances they employ the new prefix as opposed to the previous one okay of course the question here is to what extent this is actually the case in many cases the CP is don\u0027t just don\u0027t just record the prefix that has been leased there are and this is also tricky for a number of reasons like for example if you were to if the CP were to you know crush and reboot you might be able to actually deprecated or um prefer the previous prefixes but you are not able to actually completely disable the addresses so that means that the nodes that are connected to the network we\u0027ll still keep your abdiel addresses they will not be preferred but the addresses will be configured and there are ipv6 implementations that limit the number of configure addresses so that could mean that if there is like multiple crashes and reboots for example you might be able to enter the addresses but you might end up hitting the limit on the maximum number of addresses that are configured okay I mean this is just something that is implemented and has been deployed then you might disagree with that policy but you know that\u0027s that\u0027s what it is how we think this should be solved in the document that we offer there are a number of things that could be done so there are multiple things let\u0027s say the main mitigation for for this problem that we proposed is to try to infer that a prefix has become stale and what we essentially say in the idea is that if you keep receiving erase from the same router as identified by you know the same lien local address and you see new prefix information options advertising new prefixes but not the previous prefix then that might be an indication that the prefix has become stale okay in the idea we say something along the lines off okay if you receive it a couple of those arrays and after the second you should um prefer the address and if you receive a few more then you should completely eliminate the address okay but of course there are multiple things that you could do here like you could say okay when I have received a couple of these prefixes I might just um prefer the addresses and then keep the addresses there okay so the idea here is to try to infer you know when the information might have become stale at which point you might want to do something about it then you know we can\u0027t divide what\u0027s there let\u0027s say the most appropriate action for that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:41",
    "text": "well there are multiple things that have been proposed when it comes to the - their response of these packets or you know when you detect that the information might have become stale for example some foods have suggested to perform BFD in response to this I\u0027m not saying that that\u0027s what I think should be done I mean this is among the options I would say the bottom line is that at the moment in which you infer that the information might be stale there\u0027s something to be done to actually be able to you know mitigate this problem all the things that might help if you look at our SC 48 61 it essentially says that if you receive a prefix information option with a life with the valid lifetime smaller than two hours essentially you shouldn\u0027t update it by the lifetime the idea is to prevent denial of service attacks okay our take is that there are so many vectors when it comes to neighbor discovery that you know just ignoring those particular packets because of one specific vendor doesn\u0027t make much sense as long as you have multiple venues to do the same thing it doesn\u0027t really matter there\u0027s lots of things that you could do with arrays disabled routers you know configuring correct prefixes so many so what we think is that that rule should be removed and if that was the case and you had a CPE that is aware that you know the information has become stale and the CPE has recorded an information on stable storage it would be able to actually completely you know clean up the mess on on the network another thing that we suggest and discussed in the idea is to reduce the lifetime of the prefix information options the current values are that PIOs have a default valid lifetime of one month okay meaning that if you don\u0027t have explicit signaling the information is going to be there for one month they prefer lifetime if I remember correctly something along the lines of seven days okay what we say in the document is that the lifetime should be in the same order of the route like them and if you think about these in the context of RFC a t28 essentially it says that a prefix is tied to the router that advertise it why because if you have multiple routers advertising prefixes on the local network then if you just source packet from any of those prefixes to any of the routers then the packets might be a grass filter Michael Abramson so I think we discussed this before and at least open wrt caps the life time to the life of the PD so it\u0027ll it will little cap it out there anyway so if you have a 24-hour PD you\u0027ll never have more than 24 hour lifetime and in the PIO what\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:41",
    "text": "the value to which they cup the lifetime the prefix delegation so the dhcp prefix delegation lifetime yeah so that will cap the the PIO so open WT will cap the PIO lifetime to the to max value of the remaining lifetime of the prefix although that is already specifying their standards right yeah the barber is is that in the 70 84 okay right so the this I think this is less of a problem that it\u0027s not a month generally it\u0027s an implementation problem if the device doesn\u0027t do this um going down to a half an hour is quite aggressive um we should we just discussed this yesterday that we wanted to test what hosts already do and I think that\u0027s where worthwhile to get some data there because I have done boo-boos at home and sent RAS and have you know all the kinds of devices configure address affordable for me but for itself I have surprisingly little problem because of this and I I was under the impression that the preferred lifetime the high the PID address with the highest preferred lifetime was used for new connections I cannot find this in the RFC\u0027s anywhere people are saying no but it could be that hosts are actually using more parameters than what we have in the artsy\u0027s right now well the thing is there are many things even in CB s that you know folks that have found this problem we have implemented so you didn\u0027t be surprised if you know somebody that has come across the problem has implemented some no mitigation journaling kova someone who is heaven hedgehog a Groundhog Day feeling a force is sweet so Michael so the source of this selection algorithm saying that before you when you get to the longest prefix match you might don\u0027t use it if you have other means of finding out which addresses better so so application a host can do it because definitely can do what I actually proposed some time ago so Fernanda I sent her three pages email this morning I got a comment in kanji so I\u0027m not gonna repeat that huh I totally agree we have a problem I disagree what is the proposed solution on the draft about I have two questions I\u0027m actually confused why do you think it\u0027s only slack problem so if you have DHCP hosts they somehow managed to detect that prefix changed nobody uses the opinion that\u0027s fine okay so okay okay good and second I\u0027m still confused with the statement that a stable persistent prefixes have privacy implications do you say I need to remember my corporate network like every day just to make sure like we my hosts do not get the same prefix every day I\u0027m not saying that I\u0027m saying that there are people that have a concerns about that whether that\u0027s a justification to actually do that that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:42",
    "text": "a different question okay so okay so some people haven\u0027t concerned it\u0027s not the same as privacy implications maybe there are like if you have a stay if you have a persistent prefix and you do temporary addresses that\u0027s in vain so okay so if if I am getting the same prefix over a month or if that prefix assigned to me and then to someone else\u0027s the next day okay okay and I think the end of the line right now is Tim I\u0027m gonna cap the line I think is well they\u0027re the only one that I was a lift which no the purpose of the presentation was to get the feedback then there was the question while we were discussing this in on both v6 of sand and six-month there were false saying that one hand with to document the problem and on the other hand like do solutions I do think that the solutions belong for the most part in in six-month so that\u0027s what I would say when it comes to the documentation of the problem it might be here in might be in six month but this is a question for the working group Richard Patterson so I agree it is a problem there\u0027s definitely observable in the real world I kind of disagree with that last comment you made it around where it should be I I think we have we have widgets and things the moments already defined that we can use to solve or at least mitigate this problem for a good 90 something percent of of the problem and as we spoke about before we\u0027ve we\u0027ve done that I think documenting sort of proposed recommendations and and best current practices and things like that might be a better fit for this well quantifying that last remaining how many percentages of the remaining problem is there and is it worth creating new things to fix that small percentage yeah or just having a document that recommends how to solve it mostly if it\u0027s the lesser then perhaps v6 officers are better placed to do this I mean there are certainly mitigations that are operational there are others that are at the protocol level so they were our operational might be down here the other ones yeah I think I\u0027ll agree with Jeanne before and saying I disagree with some of the proposed solutions in there but yeah yeah hi Bob hindered several points I\u0027m somewhat skeptical of the basic problem it seems to me that the ISP just should remember the prefix it gives out to the customer for the same reason I think it has to remember that it\u0027s a customer so having a having the additional state of the prefix assigned to the customer doesn\u0027t seem too much so it would be good to write that down somewhere because I don\u0027t see why that\u0027s seems to be the core problem here is that the ISP is not sending out the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:45",
    "text": "prefix for the lifetime so I don\u0027t see why I can\u0027t remember that I this document is not a remembering document because you don\u0027t deal with all the other aspects of remembering like updating DNS like changing firewall rules it\u0027s a look it\u0027s a well-known big problem this is not a remembering solution this is trying to address a perceived it\u0027s specific problem yeah so you should like not use different words in the document so and yeah like some of the other people I\u0027m not convinced that the right solution here is protocol changes I think it may be better to document the problem and use the tools that we have already which ones specifically they don\u0027t have a specific list but yeah I\u0027m just not sure the approach of trying to change its neighbor discovery is the right thing for this well IQ thing is that what my employee let\u0027s say the existent mechanisms is to somehow make the addresses become unprepared and there\u0027s really nothing that you have there to actually trigger the addresses to become a prefer if you the only thing that you might have if you want it would be to play with the timers but then either you have to really you know reduce the timer so much which is you know the right thing to do and so the the end the oh the other one that I forgot is that you also have a very careful that that the line between the customer and the and the ISP goes down and so in that case the prefixes are just fine and so doing things to rip them down when it\u0027s when you\u0027re really just isolated from the router is just the wrong thing to do and I\u0027m concerned that the mechanisms proposed here will cause that to happen so doing a bunch of work you know and then if you\u0027re using the prefixes locally for inner communication inside the site that\u0027s all going to fail so I think this you know I think there\u0027s a if there\u0027s some work here it needs to be done carefully well justice a clarification we propose several alternatives to in order to mitigate this problem the one that you might be referring to is when we talked about before they prefer invalid lifetimes of the prefix information options there are others that don\u0027t have to do with a with the timers but when it comes to that particular one the only scenario in which you would run into trouble is the scenario in which the CPE dies because what we say is that ACP should for example never advertise a lifetime longer than the router lifetime but as long as the CPU router is alive it would keep sending the erase and the life stamps would be refresh so the only scenario in which you might run into that problem is that if the CPU router dies so that in that case there\u0027s not refresh for the timers and you might "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:45",
    "text": "argue that you know the prefixes might become invalid I need to look at the document again okay high-tension so I suspect this problem is relatively well hidden at the moment because of happy eyeballs and the fact that this is generally seems to be aimed at residential networks where there isn\u0027t much v6 only content they P unis looking to go to so we\u0027re probably not seeing that the full impacted at the moment so follow the question of that is has anyone done any real tests with various operating systems and Reuters and actually seen what actually happens and whether what we think happens does happen I mean certainly not exhaustive search we dif I mean this is something that does happen now if the question is well if you have like you know 10 different operating systems what\u0027s the percentage of them that they experience this problem no I couldn\u0027t answer that I remember 15 years ago doing some tests on Fred\u0027s ordinary numbering system with a variety of operating systems and we learned quite a bit from doing that I just wonder whether that\u0027s a useful thing well that to do whether it\u0027s something that might happen at IOH or something like that well yesterday when we discuss this a little bit we actually like agreed to actually do that kind of testing to see what of different OSS are to you right you\u0027re gonna break stuff good yeah the third point is what I said in six-man I think these three perspectives here one is guideline guidelines for the operators another is potentially what people building or implementing the operating systems do and how how they choose to interpret the standards and the third is whether you do want to tweak any of these thing numbers that are recurrently in the standards but I think overall I might be preferred to see this presented as a handling style addresses in v6 rather than looking at that specific problem because there will be other scenarios where go get hammered do something about a host being able to detect when one or more of its addresses are essentially style that\u0027s what is the most important thing yet so as its presented its presented as a problem statement the solution is to look for how to deal with style addresses and our URIs --tx for a host to do that and bearing in mind what Bob said about there are some cases maybe where you need to be cautious about that mm-hmm okay so I need to bring this to a close because I\u0027ve got another presentation in 10 minutes so um no I hope you got out of this what you\u0027re looking for hmm okay Martin okay so did the right thing happen "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:47",
    "text": "okay there you go so hi everybody I will have a presentation about the depiction of in not six four over and dns64 over SRV records first of all I would like to say that even that title says IETF it\u0027s not had been adapted because I\u0027m a newcomer this is one mistake I\u0027ve nights well I\u0027ll take the blame at least in part for that I was the guy that pushed them to actually push this thing out I didn\u0027t take shortcuts now why I want to actually present this it all started at ITF 99 I wasn\u0027t at the meeting I was about few meters out outside at arrive Academy and one thing I have been told it\u0027s never used DNS when I\u0027m using and that\u0027s Explorer so I was thinking about if this isn\u0027t solved I found out that is there is RFC 70 50 there but at that time it seems soft to me so I\u0027ve stopped the work on paper and after few years later I found out that there is a new age and it basically breaks everything in terms of 70 50 so I continued on paper and finally submitted to the year so 70 50 doesn\u0027t work for in DNS and I see 84 84 doah introduces the foreign DNA and undetected dns64 breaks the DNS Ike and undetected not six for graphics equals no ipv4 services so there are several solutions for the detection of the message for prefix as you might not there\u0027s the RSC 70/50 which uses local DNS so no for foreign DNS means no RFC 70/50 there was also RFC sent it to 25 which uses support control protocol oh but not a rate device control uses control protocol just also draft is actually adopted now by Jen which is using array option and there is a also RFC at which using DHCP but it\u0027s not listed here and there is also this draft now some pros and cons about those so current "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:51",
    "text": "solutions Darcy 70/50 works with modification without purification to protocols this is good actually so most of the RFC 70 51 issues not the issue number 3 because it\u0027s dns-based so it requires dns to operate there also some cons about this that it requires dns64 with the same network specific graphics or well-known prefix there are no priorities well-known prefix cannot be secured by the DNS SEC because the PTR records are currently sign it and delegated for well-known prefix and the first step of the discovery is always insecure because you are asking for ARPA and this also can be secured and delegated to you also there\u0027s a 7225 which solves all the issues because it\u0027s not dns-based and but it requires both client and server to have a PCP support and this requires a fort from both sides there\u0027s also the draft Jones which is using the Raa extensions and the one thing I would like to say I did I actually quite liked it because it provides single packet configuration and source the issues just current version st. / 96 we present at various options for the next revision to support as a prefix lands and I disagree it requires local Jena six for as long as for example I\u0027m using well-known prefix second using Google Public DNS six first well yeah but as I understand this this requires the client to do Dean earnest six four on on a client and I would also say about it such negative six because I was talking with DJ and about this so for now it the current version doesn\u0027t about there\u0027s a some work about this and also requires a system level change because it\u0027s a requires change of the procedure of processing this RA and about the same thing would also go for dhcpv6 because it wouldn\u0027t mean a single packet but it still requires a local DNS on on the client microwaves could you repeat that but system level change that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:52",
    "text": "you said that you would had to change the implementation of processing are a connection manager or whatever is doing this processing yeah sure I just wanted to point out that still a lot of people still think that this is typically done in the kernel and this is no longer done there are in most places it\u0027s done by the connection manager installed nowadays yeah so now about my draft it\u0027s also most of the issues same as the 70/50 because it is dns-based so it requires DNS so issue number three is not solved it allows priorities because army records do have to have priorities and wave which can be both used it works with foreign DNS because when you do have a local domain then you might also search for the records in global DNS even through toh if you want and it might also be application level change because if you using do H and browser then problem can solve it by using this and there are no changes in the protocol all is already there you see DNS is already there and it requires a local domain detection it\u0027s a main pitfall of the this draft because it\u0027s this seems to be quite issue now what you can do in terms of local domain detection when you do have a just one segment which for example might be your company then it is easy you can just use DNS search list option in the are a DHCP option 24 and what comes in problem actually comes is there is a for example router in in way in such way you can use for example PTR records which also would point probably to your operator when you are a home user and there are also some options in DHCP mainly option 57 or 110 and there are also some other ways how to this can be actually discovered now sorry about it and the other things you might actually use is for example Universal RA and some other ways yeah also dis options the AR "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:04",
    "text": "AR who is is not thing you would or should use because this ends up to be PTR records so no time and now about detection of Gnostics for itself basically the house would ask for SRV record for each local domain SRV record would look like this actually so there will be some not six for ipv6 prefix for the local domain and would point to some pool the pool would then have quote a records and may have even a record if someone things is useful there\u0027s a one change in our vertical format because it\u0027s not I\u0027ll say L sorry L for protocol it doesn\u0027t have port numbers so you might use it for indicate traffic slang but otherwise if you won\u0027t it should suppose 96 now a detection of the nat64 I was thinking if I should include this into the draft but it seems for me it\u0027s might be useful because it might also be used by other means of detection of nat64 prefix if you don\u0027t have a capability of making not six four addresses at a host so it might point to some servers which would provide either standard DNS VOT or whatever the question is is if it should be optional or required or must shoot but currently in draft there is a shoot but I think it must be also appropriate now some input form of our group first of all the name of the draft I already mentioned it I\u0027ve made this one mistake and the second input was a negative answer how would you say to client that there isn\u0027t no not six for a surrogate court allows a dot and so that service is not provided it depends how it should be processed by the host one thing would be to use it as not not provided to you specifically when you are asking from outside DNS or saying just that there is no not sixth form it\u0027s up to a decision and there is also one input about change in configuration DNS records does have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:07",
    "text": "the time to live so when there is a change for example in record itself then it would time out eventually also whether there is a change in your up stream and you are giving this records to your downstream then you might also consider to use C name because when there is a change in upstream it will also propagate to clients downstream and the other input was a multiple errors pacific prefixes there are several ways how to deal with this either separate view through same zone sub zone or some dynamic records generated or the specific host and the main thing was the detection of the local domain after the CPE recruiter obviously you can\u0027t use the genus search last industry anything because if you would just make this a transitive through the CPE you might broke something in the local network but you can use for example PTR and then a strap this prefix is from the PTR from the answer of the PTR query and this way you also came through to the sorry buddy third domain over your provider so next time there is all obviously input required if the DNS sick for record shoot or must be supported to deal with a naming issue and for example negative answer what it actually should mean and after I would get an input I will prepare next version so I\u0027m hoping for some input and there we have a problem and that is there were actually past the scheduled end of the meeting so I\u0027m gonna have to take this out to the mailing list you\u0027ll get that discussion on the mailing loss tutor Wow we have one more thing before everybody rushes the door and I know I\u0027m going to preempt you here there is a discussion that\u0027s happening right now in OPSEC they\u0027re having a what a second working group last colony on draft IETF OPSEC v6 looking at operational security considerations for ipv6 networks and they\u0027re looking for your review so if you would go look at it and pose "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:07",
    "text": "comments to hopsack if would be please I can yeah so okay okay I can I can even do that you\u0027d be big you\u0027ll do it okay thank you "
  }
]