[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:28",
    "text": "so yeah wellness okay so on so let\u0027s think of the meeting so this is new version not well it\u0027s very important to be well this for any ITF meetings and thanks from heat for the to be the meanest takers and he\u0027s going to edit our notes on the ether pad and okay we also have some okay great not a poor number okay I will change this you know I think it\u0027s on the agenda now Larry\u0027s coming so we also have a github page for our working group with our draft so this is some updates of our status of walking boo right now so we have the energy efficient routes which is in ad scan right now or else we she\u0027s not here right now so I think he\u0027s catching up with Oh sweetie come so we I already started so we have an agenda we we miss to milestone right now including the Quinto draught and crypto draft and the Co app drop so but yes I I think we do need some good pushers of this draft in order to get it down to be some into to the iesg I personally read the cooperator again I think it\u0027s pretty good draft and but anyway release some somebody to make some edits before I can ship it to the ISD and we have some green ones which will be discussed today which is the TCP draft and also TCP guidance raft and also the ESP garden draft so suresh krisshnan has ad so the energy efficient stuff just came in to me like couple of weeks ago it\u0027s been a request at i/o to do review of this so they\u0027re taking a look at it so hopefully we\u0027ll get a review for that and there\u0027s also in the review going out so like once that is done I\u0027ll do my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:05:29",
    "text": "eval and send it to ITF class cough so hopefully like in a month month and a half it\u0027ll be in front of the IES you okay thank you second series here\u0027s our agenda so so we all talked about basically so the first three drafts will be wheezing our count walking charter and we are going to discuss it and the main object of the meeting today will be asked for the option and for further steps of this draft and the forest for the last one on the agenda is going to be asked for the interest of the draft so how to get impulse for our group so any question regarding the chain okay pretty good so I can move to the first prison thing yes yes so basically this draft providing some recommendation on how to secure machine to machine communication with IPSec ESP and is believed to while IPSec ESP history is believed to present some significant advantages for small devices especially regarding interoperability VPN its transport layer independent its key management independent and it has a lower overhead than TLS the presentation has already already be made in Berlin in the ITF 96 during the six low motivation remains the same and so the problem is that the standards face standard espy is likely to be implemented by many different small devices and well this document is intended to make sure that these new implementation light implementation still be compatible with the standard one so basically we described how can what are the mandatory features as well as where other feeders have they can be implemented in light waste depending on the context and the the use of those so overall these though we already have an IKE a minimal Ike v2 in this working group so this document is continuing the effort for ESP so we had a presentation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:29",
    "text": "during the building meeting and the document was believed to need more reviews from the IPC Kimmy working group so we had I think it was last ITF from such another physician but a good review of the document and we received a significant amount of feedbacks so now we think we it\u0027s relatively mature which doesn\u0027t mean that we well we expect a few more reviews and process and back and forth the document is clearly handled between the two groups so it\u0027s not that we\u0027re trying to hide the document and the the updates from IPSec Amy there are still heavily involved and we\u0027re going to require them to review in detail to the document so what are the changes since the last version so we probably spent some time clarifying the purpose of minimal implementation and from the presentation it was thought that we were designing a ESP v2 which is not the case so it is the two bits so we clarified the text on the SPI so we detailed on how it can be handled with multicast or anycast communications we detailed in detail how we can use a fixed value for a spi or limited number of values for SPR in case of some devices would not we could hardly generate a random divider andum SP all right we also clarified that it doesn\u0027t mean that you don\u0027t need randomness because for crypto you need randomness so it\u0027s just a way to avoid generating new SPI we clarify the padding so our padding was correct I mean it was I think it was wrong statement and we clearly mentioned it as mandatory and we also clarify with well ESP got some mechanisms so that you you can provide some additional padding so that you don\u0027t leak any information about the size of the packet so well for a minimal version we clearly mentioned that these kind of features are not mandatory or not expected to be part of such implementation next header well we clarified the meaning of the next header and also define that that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:11:34",
    "text": "was a missing part in the last version that you you have to remove to to be able to disk out some dummy packets ICV while it was mostly a clarification because the text was suggesting you can cut some part of the ICV or make some ICD optional which was really not the case so that has been clarified in the current version and that\u0027s about all would you eat we received some additional comments we will address in a further version and we would like to continue this draft I mean in this working group but in collaboration with IPSec I mean we have well there are some known implementations user load library in C Python and we have some supporting Kentucky riot and you will see later an implementation of this minimal I for group sorry for a group key so at the end of this session so this is where we are and we would like to look that work for what can you see a little bit more about the implementations like bison implementation that hard leads for IOT devices but it was mostly for testing the specs and testing the interoperability with so which which of the ESP the IOT OSS implement that so we have one in Kentucky okay and I I have heard that some in realtor Tobias from LMU the implementation for Kentucky is very old that\u0027s done by Shahid Raza this group and we are currently developing one in riot so um Hannes again so I think we should not do that work it\u0027s a terrible idea we IPSec provides no benefits the motivation that you a percentage is just nonsense it will it will if people actually use it it will actually add another security mechanisms that people don\u0027t have to support which adds fragmentation it I think it\u0027s a terrible idea it doesn\u0027t do as a service it\u0027s just bad so this is an opinion but we have a few vendors that are quite interested in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:36",
    "text": "using IP sex the eternal communion one of the good things about you know losing IPSec we said you can ask use also use the I curse and to to generate the keys for the 15 for layer which you can\u0027t use the TLS because 15 9 doesn\u0027t support TLS because there was nobody to write the traps for that so that for for if you want to have one crypto algorithm you and one encrypted protocol you can have I person to an ESP and nothing else you don\u0027t need to Ellis at that point so but actually I guess in most of the cases in this kind of confronting basis you pick one and you talk to whatever is your you know cloud or whatever service you have there so if you use TLS use TLS everywhere that you don\u0027t support this if you use IPSec use IPSec everywhere and you got super TLS so it\u0027s you know whatever you pick and you pick what what is suitable for your there your needs wait so are you implementing I and I be sick for a 15 or 4 foot and this type of stuff in your products as I don\u0027t work any better anything but anyway so so 15 4 has you know I\u0027ll Greenwich that allows you to carry to prepare barsky\u0027s and I person is one of those is that the 15 so I\u0027m not totally familiar with some of the that I Triple E work but is that the I Triple E work where it basically standardized hip as a key management banner or and everything you can imagine [Laughter] so are you are you guys going to use this in your products in you are like black we are making things up a little bit well we we know some some some customers that are gonna use that yes I you Erickson going to use this stuff in your IOT devices I can\u0027t probably detail what for you\u0027re gonna implement well I don\u0027t think I\u0027m here to to detailed what is too broad mass for Erickson as a vendor so so I\u0027m not asking for roadmap but he be are standardizing something they are providing implementation guidance so presumably you have done something we we were to standardize something as guidance from implementations that Hutt\u0027s has actually been done rather than something that we may or may not do suresh krisshnan so Hannes just hold on a second the thing is like it\u0027s like an early individual draft right at some point he\u0027s gonna go for an implementation I understand right like nobody\u0027s requiring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:17:36",
    "text": "implementation for adoption it\u0027s a good thing to have right so yeah so if I understand you correctly your questions should be right maybe I\u0027m paraphrasing it\u0027s like why do you see a need for this is that the right way to put it okay so he\u0027s saying he has a need for it right like and we\u0027re trying to figure out if somebody else has a need for it I think that\u0027s where he\u0027s at so if if somebody\u0027s trying to see need for it then we\u0027ll go forward if not like this whole discussion is moot right we just move on right say Daniel go away and that\u0027s it right so I I fully agree with your point at some point we need an implementation like as a personal draft I don\u0027t know I think it\u0027s a bit early for that anyway they recognize he\u0027s not going to try trying to standardize anything new this is standard ESP it\u0027s going to it\u0027s already standardized it has been out there for a long time he starts describing what kind of tricks and things you can do to make it\u0027s very small so you don\u0027t have to implement that you don\u0027t have to read the whole OSP and this is same thing made it mean minute amount in a more like I mean there is Ike is almost already at what is at that point but the problem was it was you know 150 page 100 100 pages and had all kind of feature that you don\u0027t need you don\u0027t need not trouble or something you don\u0027t need that kind of things and so on in most of the minimal cases you don\u0027t need those we were actually documenting just what we don\u0027t need this is the same thing in ESP I Hannes again I think also it was a bad idea to standardize this minimal Ikey since the reason is what as some feature is really useful or not depends on what your environment is like the natural bristle if you talk to like previously mentioned you talk to some cloud a service probably you will have naturalism um and so on so you just stripped out up sort of random things and busy I bring if I remember correctly it was you focus on the BSK version of course that gets the code size small but that may be a right thing to do in some deployments in some use case and not in others we never had any experience with those use cases and that\u0027s why it feels arbitrary for example the 15 459 I question 2 is using the minimal one because it does it doesn\u0027t need not reverse or because it\u0027s perverse keys between two devices it actually doesn\u0027t know most of the features of a person - it just uses the key generation given it said so so yes there is you she said yes this will of fragment no environment but that will happen anyway and it\u0027s actually already happening because I mean there is thousands of you know implementations using their own proprietary stuff and as long as they use anything from here it\u0027s much much better than 10 proprietary and if they\u0027re prepared the requirements are that they need to be you know sending IP packet they don\u0027t want to do TLS they don\u0027t do anything like that this might be shooting better for them than 10 the TLS if it doesn\u0027t they used to tell us it\u0027s it\u0027s you know they\u0027ve been they are breaking their product table decide what they are going to use I don\u0027t think it\u0027s our your point of view say oh you go you must not use this or because they will use anyway whatever have but what they "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:36",
    "text": "want I know so Hannah\u0027s first first I think we will Shepherd the minimal I document we asked for your opening and you said this is a good document we should share it as soon as possible I mean when we share for the minimal I\u0027d document we ask for your opening and you I think I think I will still remember the email you said you said we should publish it as soon as possible okay and the secondly and secondly currently even for the FC for the 78th 25 25 so for the minimum item is is nothing normative right this national team is informational so it tells people how to implement a minimal client of the IKE you know you know your protocol you know protocol compliance way so I don\u0027t want to continue this discussion I just started suggestions RFC 7 9 mm son how to improve awareness of implementation so since you do have some some implementations it would be good to have a section documenting them which of them are open source where I can get them and so on that working definitely help so now I go at the draft and I I don\u0027t know about the implementations yeah that\u0027s something that can be easily put added so so then you test one thing I I was are not clear right now so because you say that you want to continue to have this document in L week as well as IP ii e so that\u0027s that mean that you don\u0027t want to ask for call option today no no I when I ask for adoption today okay so so because of because of the hanys comments I think we should first ask questions like these so how many people think that this is the question we this is the valuable question we want to solve it in this working group please please raise your hands so if it\u0027s our so yeah if you think that this is the right problem that we need to solve in a week walking group please raise your hand like 10 so so you feel don\u0027t sing that or if you don\u0027t think that this is the right play this is right problem we need to solve you know it please say so hands okay we got is so let the minutes not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:38",
    "text": "that Hana sauce in the rough in the room Hana sauce in the rough in the room okay then we excellence everything is green you know right here we simply do some video I thought it some more like flashes like that he used ok hello good afternoon my name is Carlos Gomez and I\u0027m going to present the last update of the draft entitled TCP over constrain node networks by the way we are pleased to have Michael sharp as a new member of the author team and would like to help him Troy well thank you for the contributions that he has already made so far so first of all a quick reminder on the motivation for this document so nowadays we have several application layer protocols that are being used for IOT scenarios for example we have the constrained application protocol co-op which was originally designed over UDP however there\u0027s also an ongoing co-op over TCP specification in progress that\u0027s mostly motivated by the need to overcome problems with middle boxes that appear not to be very friendly to UDP traffic also we have that HTTP 2 and even HTTP 1.1 have been used and are being used in some IOT scenarios and then we have other application layer protocol such as XMPP or MQTT especially the last one is very popular which rely also on TCP at the transport layer so we have that despite that TCP has been quite neglected and even unfairly criticized as a protocol for the IOT TCP is being used and will be used in many IATA scenarios so the purpose of this document is to offer simple measures for suitable TCP implementation and operation over constrain node networks so let\u0027s look at the status of the draft the initial version was presented in Berlin one year ago in both elegant eCPM sessions then the document was subsequently updated the was 0 1 \u0026 0 2 which represented in Seoul and in Chicago respectively and today I\u0027m presenting the last update which is 0 3 where we have addressed comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:42",
    "text": "received in Chicago and also we provide details on the riot and open WS n TCP implementations by the way thanks to Simon rumor and avi village asana for kindly providing details on these two implementations just a quick note to say thanks to everyone who has provided comments and feedback and input for this draft since the initial version so thanks a lot everyone so let\u0027s go through the updates in this last revision of the draft the first update is in the subsection titled maximum segment size there was a related discussion in Chicago about nodes that use technologies that support an MTU which is greater than 280 bytes according to RFC 1981 those nodes should support path MTU discovery by the way there\u0027s a note in that RFC that states that a minimal ipv6 implementation may choose to omit implementing path MTU discovery and the date in the document also based in the based on the comments received in Chicago is that unless applications require handling large data units that meaning leading to an ipv6 Datagram size greater than 280 bytes it is desirable to limit the MTU to 1280 bytes by doing this we avoid MTU issues along the end-to-end path and also we avoid the need to support path MTU discovery so another update is in subsection 4.8 which is about delayed acknowledgments so we have that constrained device will be in some scenario sending data to some peer and the peer may not be a constrained device so we may recommend we can be giving guidance for constrained devices but a problem is that sometimes the peer device will not be a constraint device and usually those unconstrained devices have delayed acknowledgments enabled so that means that acknowledgments may be delayed by typically 200 milliseconds it could be even up to 500 milliseconds and if traffic is of transactional type which is quite common in constrained known networks that would contribute a necessary delay so if that\u0027s possible at all disabling delayed acknowledgments would be recommended for example that might be possible if the peer is administered by the same entity managing the constraint on network however in some scenarios that may not be possible yes it confusion if the traffic\u0027s is transactional type and if the server is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:43",
    "text": "not responding very slowly then you don\u0027t the the delay that doesn\u0027t matter at all because then the acknowledgment acknowledgment transmit the response as piggybacked so if the server for example replies between 200 milliseconds to read or acknowledgements that don\u0027t have any meaning yeah but if you send that data message and that\u0027s all then the acknowledgement will be triggered will be transmitted by the the other endpoint if the server is sends the response so they come back within 200 milliseconds or whatever is their delay a climber then the response the the ACK comes back with the response so there is no delay ik mechanism in such a case you mean if this piggybacking but what happens if it is the the sensor is the constrain device that\u0027s sending a data message it\u0027s expecting an acknowledgment without any data so it\u0027s a pure acknowledgment in that case that\u0027s just adding some delay which mail order that\u0027s no transaction oh that\u0027s that\u0027s kind of all you need erection of them well yeah so I\u0027ve seen the transactional terminology used in some places but well let\u0027s maybe try to clarify the terminology so that it\u0027s clear thank you okay so another update is in the annex of the document so if you remember there\u0027s design acts where we are collecting details the main features of constraint TCP implementations so now we have other details on the riot disappea implementation so this is an implementation design for class one devices targets are 8 and 16-bit microcontrollers the implementation is based on single MSS window so this simplifies the implementation and by default there\u0027s only enough memory for single TCP connection so at this point so far it might seem like riot TCP implementation is quite similar to my creepy however it is not as minimalistic as my creepy because for example the memory locate that can be increased to support multiple parallel connections and then there\u0027s an independent buffer provided for each connection and also retransmission is handled by TCP itself as opposed to what happens in micro IP where it is the application developer who needs to take care of retransmissions rather I mean I beg to differ here even in case of you IP even in case of micro IP the TCP buffers are handled by the TC I mean it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:43",
    "text": "application handles only for UDP it works that way participate won\u0027t work that way because there are other sequence I mean I mentioned this in my review comments as well yes it\u0027s impossible for application to generate the same sequence numbers the data part if you see yeah yeah so I agree with you and the point is then the application needs to have some reliability so the application layer cannot rely on TCP in this case for retransmissions I mean I agree that you cannot create like the whole TCP segment with the header and so on so I definitely agree but that means also that the application cannot rely on TCP for retries in this case I just want to sorry yeah I just want to make one statement the current micro IP implementation has multiple connections every connection has one buffer and it handles three transmissions so this is what I have already okay so then possibly there\u0027s something to clarify about the versions so also even if you have input we would appreciate very much this thank you okay then we have also added details on the open wsn discipline tation although this subsection is fairly shorter than the previous one overall it is that open wzn is according to the details we have received is mostly equivalent to my crappy implementation it is really minimal and as in micro P there is a problem with not performing retransmission so the application developer needs to take care of of this so this is the summary table where we are trying to summarize the main features and mechanisms of the different TCP implementations for constrained devices so as you can see we have filled in most of the details for the riot and open WSM implementations and we have also added the rightmost column for tiny OS this is currently just a placeholder so tiny OS has been relevant in several IOT scenarios so we plan to add details on the TCP implementation of tiny OS as well in future updates of the document so at this point the author\u0027s understand that the document is quite stable also it is getting more and more complete with the successive updates so we would like to ask whether this would be a good moment for working group adoption of Agincourt Acharya actually I have a very generic question the matter is that closer to mic I have a very generic question that is when the www "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:47",
    "text": "this worldwide wave that came into picture then a classical problem emerged for TCP which is short flow on TCP and there has been several work that has gone through it so it is I mean only a few segments maybe few kilobytes of data that has to be transmitted and one problem that is the slow start and the condition control that actually created that was actually not giving the optimal performance both in terms of utilizing the increasing bandwidth that the the the network was offering so will it be a dimension that also needs to be considered here because there has been work like limited transmit and this kind of work limited transmit was actually dedicated for I think it was arrested three four zero two so it was very old RFC but these works were a limit actually for performing these or improving TCP performance for these things so because I am currently working on something similar to that and I\u0027m facing some I had to do the study so that is what a just a general proposal whether these dimensions can be taken up yes so I so the you read any version of these forecasts and I haven\u0027t seen the mention that is I am commenting very good yes so uh I understand we can consider this so in a way we are considering that for example in many applications that would be a sensor that is going to be maybe trying to send one data message per hour for us as long as possible so that\u0027s different from the use case you are explaining then I\u0027m wondering if maybe TCP first open might be a good solution here for the use case you are yeah I\u0027ve seen that actually TFO is in the draft because I rather have seen scenario so thanks for that yes so we can revise the document and see if maybe we could we can more explicitly refer to those kinds of situations possible yes I think that will be good yeah thank you thank you so my name is Michael Shara from a course or row but I\u0027m actually speaking yours ttpm culture I would suggest this work and hope to adopt the document it\u0027s very clearly understood that work is needed and but I think it\u0027s heading into the right direction I\u0027m not sure if the milestone day that I\u0027ve seen earlier in the chart is realistic because at least in TCP n/bar a little bit slow this reviews but in general I think this should be adopted by this working group okay good so any more comments questions okay so first let me ask if you have read any version of this draft please raise your hand so if you think that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:54",
    "text": "this if you if you are supportive to do a top this draft in a week please raise your hands so if you are now supportive of adoption please raise your hand [Music] so it\u0027s pretty clear yeah thanks use your sticker sorry oh yeah hello everyone I\u0027m Rahul shadow from War II technologies so I\u0027m here to talk about neighbor management policies for 6lowpan so some background the note so why is this this kind of worker actually required so in case of multi-hop networks the node density is it can be anything it\u0027s it\u0027s hard it\u0027s hard to pry it what the node density can be and the neighbor cache size in case of a constraint node can be really really small it can be small even if you can allocate more in F memory it would be suboptimal so the point is no density is high what to do the neighbour cache is going to be really small so how do you prioritize the entries here how do you prioritize the entries here and ensure which ensure the entries that remain in the neighbor cache would result in least churn of the network so when I say churn what I mean is that it should be possible to to enable proper routing adjacency so that such that the network paths don\u0027t keep on changing now the reason why this this this work is important is because and if you\u0027re playing with two or five or ten nodes on a table till that point everything works out okay at the moment you go to 50 nodes hundred nodes and you have a neighbor table size which is like 10 you\u0027re going to need to you\u0027re going to have you\u0027re going to have to have neighbor management policy in place so some of the popular implementations so right implements FCFS quantity used to implement least recently used entry so what it does is it just replaces the least recently used entry I had in case of riot it it populates the whatever comes on on the first come first serve basis the problem is in case of ripple based "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:57",
    "text": "Network or in case of multi hop Network you you will have a DI of storm or a Taoist storm and your or your neighbor cache is going to be populated with the same with all the parent entries and you won\u0027t have any space left for child entries so there\u0027s one typical example mentioned by yo Keem on the this was mentioned on the mailing list but from my perspective I work for a metering solution and the node density can easily run up to hundreds of nodes in the same vicinity it\u0027s in sub gigahertz mode and it can easily cross hundreds of nodes this so how do you manage them neighbor cache entry so that is what this draft tries to solve the problem so the considerations here are it\u0027s a security enable 6lowpan ripple Network for the sake of explanation I have used ripple as the routing protocol pana as the access protocol and of course neighbor disk out is there so three places where primarily the neighbor table update happens is the initial to really be signaling so before the network formation comes into picture you have to authenticate the node to the network and that\u0027s where panic amps into picture second is the repose parent selection algorithm third is when the check when the routing child load advertises itself to the network now there\u0027s one thing I have to mention here that even though I\u0027ve mentioned pana because I have used banner but the the problem is also present in case of six stitch we\u0027re currently there is the PRI element the prev the panel element is called as a join proxy there I mean the same problem statement exists in 60 shell as well so these are the terms that are used in case of six station animal working group so the neighbor management operation I will be real quick here it\u0027s the three operations broadly insertion eviction and reinforcement and the primary problem with any insertion is you have you will have so the way routing protocol works is you you have a storm going down spiraling downwards downstream and then you have a Down messaging which comes upwards so this is how the downstream and upstream paths are established so if all the d io messages are accepted by a child gets like 10 euros from ten different parents then the table is going to be full in the first place so there is no space left for the child entries so how do you handle this case eviction in case of eviction if you end up everything a childhood entry it will have a ripple effect on all the other child sub charts as well so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s not very easy to evict a child entry well this is true for storing mode of operation only but the good news in case of eviction for eviction for parent entries is that you can actually evict a non-preferred parent now this I\u0027m talking in I\u0027m using very specific terms to ripple all right so if you have it the non-preferred parent it is possible to evict it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:57",
    "text": "without much implications and I\u0027m going to we are going to make use of this particular intelligence in in the routing policy in the neighbor management policy as well the reinforcements the link quality estimation has to be updated over a period of time if you can use an active or passive mechanism quantity has an active mechanism in the form of active probing of neighbors passive mechanism can be you over here the D IOT\u0027s or the other messages in the network and you can update the link estimation clearing unused entries now this is also very important because you want to release the neighbor cache entry as soon as possible so as to so that it can be allocate to something else so in case of storing mode of operation route invalidation is is important because routing entries are directly mapped to the neighbor cache entries in case of knowledge non storing mode of implementation you\u0027ve got to deregister using NS with lifetime of 0 while not many implementations do that currently and in case of PRA neighbors there is an interesting question actually I\u0027m not sure whether whether six station has a way to handle this but there is no way currently in Penner to know for the relay element to know whether the authentication has been completed so that it can ever or it can it can just delete the neighbor cache entry so that it can be used for something else so what we propose is a reservation based policy where few few amount of so the reservation is done for routing child entries the parent entries and the PRU are sessions or otherwise we call it other other sessions basically one good thing about this reservation policy is that if if the routing child entries are unavailable or not present then the parent and seats can still occupy the whole table because like I mentioned before non-preferred parent eviction can be done so this is what we try to do to optimize the usage of the records in the neighbor cache entry in the name of cache table the insertion reason needs to be kept as part of the neighbor cache entry because obviously it\u0027s going to help in the eviction process now well whatever mechanism I\u0027ve mentioned just now is or reactive what I mean by reactive is that if the table space is actually not available you send a message for example you send a down message the parent is going to reply back saying that I don\u0027t have a space just check on with some other parent a parent node and it\u0027s going to fail the problem with this kind of approaches after some time the same previous parent is going to send this d io message and since the child has lost its taste information there\u0027s no way for it to know that you know it can\u0027t go to that parent so in case of ripple right now there is no way to know that the table space is all utilized so as of now whatever we have mentioned in the draft is all reactive but it has its limitations that that\u0027s what the slide talks about so in a way what we want is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:59",
    "text": "want is a parent node to signal in some form to the child node saying that I still have table space available now six-stage does this there\u0027s an ask beacons which has this bit which says that I\u0027m still the join proxy I\u0027m still the router you can connect through me but this kind of information is missing in in the ripple and I feel it might be useful there as well so this is what I mean by the proactive wave but having said that this is clearly out of scope well wig and we would like to bring it to the role working group or six row working group for discussion so if it was purely fewer this is by Michael Richardson yeah I\u0027m Michael Richardson so if it was purely implementation advice then of course it would be very there any critical action here and I actually think that that my advice is maybe this I want to say that maybe this belongs somehow in neighbor discovery messages and yet we can run ripple networks as Carson hates without ever actually doing router advertisements and so because it really matters to leaf nodes right that they hear several router advertisements that they better pick one that actually has space in his neighbor cash for it and it really matches for for new joining nodes so it\u0027d be really nice if that was actually in there at that level too and maybe we have to put it in both in the DI oh and in the name in the router advertisement and of Carson has an opinion of it where it goes but it mean there\u0027s a protocol action here about this and if you pick wrong then you know poor little unpowered devices that turn on once a week are screwed because they\u0027re never in they\u0027re never LR you\u0027d into the cache so it\u0027s not only about rippling six low here so in case of key management protocol this benign world as well a story not just moment so Michael asked specifically whether I have an opinion I do have an opinion if it\u0027s for hosts it goes into Andy if it\u0027s for out us it can go into Andy or it can go into the routing protocol but okay um well if it\u0027s needed by both and then it\u0027s enable discovery because Deborah discovery is received by both so Costin now scoot two questions first could you keep your comments related to the do you have any comments with a reactive way rahu just discussed and the second question is also related so for the proactive way which working with the best place to discuss I definitely know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:00",
    "text": "layer my question essentially is try to decide between role in six though and given the three clothes working on neighbor discovery to me it seems that this is something we should fix in the six seven seven five update process that is going on in the system yet yet buh-buh-buh-buh here today I really want to listen was your comments to the reactive way which is definitely redeemed the scope the shadow of the work it\u0027s probably still good to have a document that explains how you use it I mean if this is all explained in wonderful detail in six seven seven five this yeah but I think it\u0027s better to have a document that actually reflects implementation experience and so on so I think this is a useful document to have okay great yeah Michael Richardson II and I think I would agree so I would suggest all of the advice okay in this document be it maybe needs to update six seven seven five okay I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t know you guys let\u0027s say that\u0027s the list maybe but that but that the proposal for it for for the additional metrics that we need should be a new document in six low and four or a a proposed text 265 775 this should be working last call comment on 6775 this yeah so our rationale was you know we keep this draft here we specify the requirements towards all the changes and then we take on the actual changes in there okay let\u0027s quickly ask how many people have read these drafts any washing with disrupt I think there\u0027s only one which okay select five so how many how many of you think that we should a sorry so it\u0027s not a question so if you think that is we should adopt is documenting yeah we please see us raise your hand so if you think that we should adopt this document focusing on the react okay okay so how many are you so if you don\u0027t think that we should adopt this document please raise your hands no okay prickly thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:08",
    "text": "hello can you hear me okay okay so I\u0027m here to present a bit more of a research work it\u0027s not really an ITF document but I\u0027m presenting here it\u0027s about an implementation we did on a group I client the group Ike is another draft which is going to be standardized I guess quite soon the authors are here so yeah so the motivation of doing this work was kind of because we didn\u0027t find any useful group key management protocol which is deployed in IOT I know of one DTLS which was going to be standardized but it\u0027s or in ace that was kind of the motivation to start this with just a question I\u0027m the dice work at the detail s stuff yeah it was actually done in a separate working group and then we decided to abandon it because it may change us to the DTLS that people didn\u0027t want this document is not the one is not your document the standard crew bike not the minimum but have you written a document on your stuff as well okay that\u0027s what I\u0027m saying okay so I just quickly want to tell you like this also follow up on minimal Ike because it\u0027s pretty much correlated so what group Ike does so the first two exchanges the first exchange is setting up a secure channel between client and server this is completely standard Ike and it\u0027s also minimal Ike so minimal I really helped in this implementation the second part is actually just to request secure keys from the group server which is also mostly the same as to I guess a I calls in with you it\u0027s just that you don\u0027t negotiate a key because you get from the server that\u0027s the main difference so you ask for a group key and you get one it\u0027s not a negotiation of a key and three King is basically the same we implemented this in riot we figured out that we need around six kilobyte of memory to run this including yeah the ciphers to be stored for them actually doing group message like securing group messages for example with est or Aeterna to 15.4 or whatever and we tested this on three different devices with jars three Arduinos so it works on every m0 device which has the arm in Syria Michael Richardson touch clear you need six kilobytes to get to the end of the process at which you have 40 bytes for the SPD left and that\u0027s all you need to keep afterwards sorry sorry so you need six K to do the whole the whole time sequence you just described no no right it\u0027s the whole that\u0027s the whole memory "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:08",
    "text": "we need for the system in right there is the right Colonel included there\u0027s 56 class okay well no no I don\u0027t mean dump the kernel I don\u0027t mean that I\u0027m trying to I try and understand how much of of the pieces that you accounted for persist after the the the the the so the I guess a and the bottom thing so okay thank you and yeah we we run this code again still names and implementation we found it\u0027s just a Cisco Rooter the results I think are pretty good the big chart here is the diffie-hellman which the elliptic curse to mention that so the crypto we use this a s for encryption to hot hmx for integrity and PRF and what if you have we use a elliptic curve you know that\u0027s what I was wondering which is missing in the table of paths and it relates to the comment that Mikey had or a question mark yet because if you use it if you ham and you need the big lamb bignum library that typically were if you want to have any reasonable performance that will require a fair amount of RAM which is only temporarily but you did needs to be there otherwise stuff would not end that\u0027s sort of missing so you need that\u0027s why the 32 kilobyte brand device was able to handle this but for example if I remember the numbers correctly there was about 10 kilobyte for Rhys Ram for reasonable protocol run before elliptic curve cryptography right if you want to optimize the point computation I have to look up the number here but I think you have to take that into account as filing the estimate yeah yeah but then the RAM numbers don\u0027t sugar I think that\u0027s part of the kernel right okay let\u0027s take these to the list yeah so yeah that\u0027s and what I want so this thing only happens once at the beginning of the session so yeah that\u0027s reasonable amount of time I guess for establishing your group communication so yeah what could we do for minimal minimal ization for this I think pretty much everything is done by minimal Ike already except that there is a bit of modification from the I cost to the GSA arson tegu cheers Araki just because it has another meaning here and what would be also helpful to have recommendations on like how to configure the server so that the actual group sa auth message is kind of minimal as well so yeah the question though we have an implementation available for iOS I know that there is an implementation or I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:09",
    "text": "heard that there is an implementation for Kentucky which is going to be Lee\u0027s released soon I don\u0027t I\u0027ve not seen it and yeah the basic question is is there interest in the working group to do this kind of work here or just Mon I\u0027m trying to understand when I would use this so this is essentially I open a secure channel to our server yeah and then I do a get on a key yeah I know today it might be because we are running out of time we\u0027re running out of time so if you have technical questions I suggest you bring in to the list yes we can discuss the technical so wish you have come earlier because we actually have work on going and group communication security in the ACE working group an extremely painful process um and they are we had you if you could have implemented that one it would have been such a great sort of benefit for the community and unfortunately been for the wrong thing um I think for foot for a couple of reasons the first one is it refers to a document that apparently is an individual document I don\u0027t know what the status of that other document is whether that will actually be adopted in the idea of and then the minimum actually doesn\u0027t do you a favor here if you look at the discussion that we had in is there\u0027s a fair amount of interest to also add the authorization capabilities and to add public key cryptography to the whole equation to make it resistance against certain certain attacks the last the last comments Brian wise answering the first question so the other graft is is still being formed there is at least one implementation commercial implementation yeah we the authors are would like to take just the right piece that give me but we haven\u0027t asked the where who haven\u0027t been ready yet to ask the share yet so that\u0027s but the if there\u0027s definitely implications this is a thing that\u0027s happening no I think I would say it\u0027s probably a little Tara normal comments not fry a CV but I would say that I would say it\u0027s probably a little too early to be asking if this what groups interested in a minimal version of that but the meeting I think it\u0027s a few soda-lime Estero if you want to make a shot point take like eight seconds okay so they\u0027re on me there or for a long time it was m/sec first and m/sec shut down and that\u0027s why i get less you know orphan and idiotic there is an ad support for that so it\u0027s too big true as an individual craft or we can go to the epitome thank you all go and enjoy "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:10",
    "text": "your evening muster yesterday while this is not here she\u0027s having a baby "
  }
]