[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "okay good to say this sits on top of TCP ZL participe sale has TLS he said because otherwise if there\u0027s no mention of Terry okay but to be honest we\u0027ll see what I will push it Bellamy chat you say it\u0027s coming okay I think they\u0027re being stupid then take it might go well okay but I\u0027m going expect our transport you need to fix this ring is you discussions saying then oh you know this is one of three bits yeah I wouldn\u0027t expect Spencer to do this okay no besides but I think we have good morning in Singapore this is the delay-tolerant networking working group where this meeting as usual is subject to note well which is essentially you know whatever you say or write is under the provision of this of the IPR of the ITF proposed agenda we\u0027re going through the first item would be hopefully a final update on BP B\u0027s Sdn Bay\u0027s DTN which should be interesting and some key management architecture or police that will fill out this meeting any agenda bashing any changes or proposed change Edie you still want to do fantastic milestones so we anybody wants to do Debra scribing I\u0027ll try to do it my son "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "so we working group last calls on the env PBS and TCP CL as you may remember we wanted to and both together to the is G those working group last calls were done some time ago and if you may remember last meeting agreement was that given that we have substantive changes to BP this essentially removing custody transfer we wanted to do another round of working group last call with because the these were significant changes and then we did we ended in September and working group chairs felt that we didn\u0027t get enough reviews of both documents so we asked on the meetings where as you know more reviews and we pretty good than significant one so we\u0027re working group chairs our IP therefore the after the BP this presentation will ask the questions to delay to here and which is are we seeing any remaining issues before sending to the is she if that then we\u0027ll proceed to send to the is you firmly so good that we see our ad in the room because the you should probably expect documents sewn in your q thank you CC PCL there is no presentation at this time but if you have any well as the same question if you have any remaining issues that you think should be dealt with before going to IOC please do so [Music] VP SEC will after the presentation ask the question about if it\u0027s ready for a working group last call so that\u0027s the plan and so prepare your answers of those questions and again that\u0027s kind of our plate things to do as you can see we have more to do but we as we agreed at the beginning we want to have the VP Biss as the base for everything else before you know really moving into the other topics so I think we\u0027re I\u0027m not sure where we\u0027re on target for time but at least the order is the appropriate order so without further ado Scott and I think you have no slides right for different reasons I unfortunately brought a laptop with me as always and the laptop did not boot when I turned it on in the hotel and it\u0027s currently in the repair shop and may be fixed later today so I have no slides okay good so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:14",
    "text": "rather than put some slides I\u0027ll just speak extemporaneously for about 30 seconds because I think that\u0027s about all there is to say at this point the the review comments that came in on the mailing list since the second group last call began I think have been very helpful there were not an awful lot of them but in particular there were some from Lucas I think caller died I\u0027m not sure guy\u0027s last name right at technical universe Dresden who is my understanding is he\u0027s doing a a formal definition of the bundle protocol and in the course of translating the spec engine into a formal notation he uncovered a number of places where there were ambiguities in in the language which I thought was extremely constructive the there small changes and and I think they they definitely make the spec a little bit stronger at this point I as far as I know there are no major outstanding issues with the specification and so I am at this point prepared to ask the if we can proceed with that that first milestone and and move the specification into into the steering group so I I turn it back to the chairs for this purpose thanks Scott I think this is the right moment for anyone to jump to the mic or jump in and meet Eko if they think they have substantive comments that they have yet to press the button on I offline nobody\u0027s approached me to say I\u0027ve got a major problem with this otherwise as Mark said we I think we press the button in it and it ends up in spencer\u0027s queue anyone have any comment that\u0027s a resounding silence which I\u0027m taking is as acceptance so I think we\u0027ll press the button on this one excellent I have one other thing to bring up before I sit down which is as part of the most recent round of revisions of the specification we broke the custody transfer functions out into a separate document the original idea was just to make it a an extension and as we discussed that at the product and as I was looking at that it dawned on me that what we were looking at there was a eh-eh essentially using bundle protocol as a convergence there as a reliable convergence layer protocol and since that happened to align kind of perfectly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "with using bundle bungalow capsulation as a convergence layer for security purposes it it seemed to me the simplest thing in the world and an easy and I think fairly elegant approach to combine the two into a single document so there\u0027s a an internet draft out there for been about there for like maybe five months on bundle and bundle encapsulation with custody transfer a reliable or an optionally reliable convergence there protocol I haven\u0027t heard any negative comments on that specification so while I don\u0027t but certainly not not ready to move into into the steering group I think it\u0027s not necessarily inappropriate to suggest that that specification be adopted by the working group as a working group document and the next iteration of that draft via a working group draft so I would propose this to the chairs as well thanks got um does has anyone in the room read this recently and equally on meet echo I think the general consensus as Scott summed up is this is half of a well a portion of a document that was already a working group document that was pulled out for expediency so I from my personal perspective rather than my chair perspective I support this as a working group document I think we will have to ask for the formal acceptance on the list as that\u0027s the official manner of doing things but has anyone got any comment in the room or on meet echo nope but I think it\u0027s generally accepted so we\u0027ll ask on the list and I think it will pretty good we go forwards I\u0027m sorry look forward thank you so next up Edie stare into the abyss and and one question before I start as if someone could take notes Vicki if you wouldn\u0027t mind I know the name in there okay so my name is Edie borane and I have believed the next two presentations this one is on bondo Protocol security or BP sac and I wanted to just summarize where we are with the specification provide a few updates respond to some outstanding "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:15",
    "text": "comments from the mailing list and then talk a little bit about next steps so as as said before it for many in the room who have or online who have read the specification it has not changed in an appreciable way over the past few iterations the motivation for the document has stayed the same there are times in which you need security services applied inside of a bundle there are times when you do not need security services provided inside of the bundle when you do not want in bundle security then there are other mechanisms for securing bundles and payloads in general but when you need security inside of the bundle we needed something new and that was the motivation for this specification we did have a couple of design decisions that came forward different blocks within a bundle can be secured in different ways we wanted to make sure that in doing that the processing order remained unambiguous and we needed to make sure that we could add and change cipher suite definitions going forward because different kinds of network deployments on different kinds of devices needed different kinds of crypt graphic strength so to that extent the overall specification defines two new extension blocks a block integrity block and a block confidentiality block which can then be applied to other blocks within a bundle and it provides the processing order to to manage those and then at the end there is a there is a treatment on why we think this is an appropriate way of securing within the bundle blocks and and that was added as a request from the working group review I think maybe three revisions back so in in this version there were no substantive updates since the last we applied some comments that we received on the - oh five version of the document we reduced the occurrence of must there were probably seven or eight times and which must was capitalized and it should not have been we corrected a very small number of misspellings and then we updated the security analysis section in two ways the first was we clarified a point relating to the security of long live bundles one of our security reviewers correctly pointed out that there is a difference between the security vulnerabilities of having a bundle live within the network for a very long time versus having a bundle live in the network for a very short amount of time but allow it to be captured and then worked on because the payload of the bundle is relevant for a very long period of time which is a small difference and doesn\u0027t change the protocol but it was something we wanted to address in the analysis and then finally there there was a flawed assumption that we correct the assumption to say that there are certain cases in which certainly signature substitution can happen even in the presence of encrypting signatures and that if you needed to really make sure that you were guarding against signature substitution there was a particularly loved cryptographic strength that needed to be applied here all of this again is is not normative or meaningful in terms "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:17",
    "text": "of the specification but was important to the overall security analysis of of the protocol at the end of the specification so there really are only a couple of outstanding comments that remain I don\u0027t sort of editorially I don\u0027t believe that any of them are fundamental to the protocol itself one was the observation that the specification defines a key value format for cipher suite parameters and for security results the actual key value format is not specified in the BP stack document other than how it is captured in C bore and it is up to individual cipher suites for BP SEC to define the keys that represent those particular cipher suite parameters and the results themselves one of the reviewers of the document had made the observation that the fact that we would presuppose a key value format for cipher suite parameters and for results could be perceived as levying design on the cipher suites that would come later and why would we need to do that and couldn\u0027t we just make it an opaque block that the cipher Suites themselves handle I didn\u0027t it was a comment so I wanted to to mention it my thought was that I disagreed and the but having said that I think that if you maintain a key value pairing certainly a cipher suite could say I have a single key and my single key is my opaque block that I would like to deal with in which case there is nothing preventing a cipher suite author from from using the cipher Suites and BP SEC in that way so mr. Dawkins so that\u0027s the responsible ID so just to make sure I understand what we\u0027re talking about here is that this would not be a must is that is that what we\u0027re saying well what we are what we\u0027re saying is that the the the comment was that the key value should not be a must and perhaps a recommendation my response to the comment is no I would I would like the key value to be a must but cipher suites determine what those keys are okay what those values thank you thank you for helping me unravel that on a Thursday morning as that sounds like a plan to me thank you thank you another comment that was received on the mailing list was a concern as to whether VP SEC could be talked about and and standardized in some way if if BP biz was not the the comments associated with that was essentially to disagree for a couple of reasons one being that while BP SEC is a set of extension blocks the BP Sachs standard points to the BP biz standard in terms of how extension blocks such as the BI B and the BC B would be represented and serialized and and handled and so forth and therefore if there were changes to BP biz in that area it would not change the security processing of the blocks and NBP SEC "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:18",
    "text": "does not have redundant information with BP biz in that way so they are not coupled in any meaningful way from that point of view where they are coupled is BP SEC does assume that there is a extension block identifier in the block header of BP biz but I I think that from a risk standpoint the chances that that is going to change in any future span of BP business is very very small and finally you know the behavioural changes to BP biz that may or may not come about if there are changes to BP that I\u0027m sorry the behavioral changes to BP SEC that may come about from any behavioral changes of BP biz are things that are handled as a matter of security policy and perhaps a matter of Cypress weight identification we really haven\u0027t identified any potential behavioral change in BP if any that would change the behavior of the BP SEC block processing itself so so for those reasons we did not feel that the comment that BP SEC couldn\u0027t be started until BP biz was finished was credible another comment was simply that we have older references in BP SEC and I think that\u0027s something we could fix at any time and then finally there was a comment from I think two meetings ago which was in order for BP SEC to really be completed we needed to define a set of interoperability cipher suites at least one for integrity and one for confidentiality and we agree with that comment but the decision we had made at the at that point was rather than embed those cipher suites into the BP SEC document itself we would create a different document that\u0027s these are the interoperability cipher suites for BP sack and send that separately and so there is a draft for that brain DT MVP second drop CS zero zero which is which is a draft and it talks about H Mac 256 sha-256 for integrity and AES GCM 128 for confidentiality although we can certainly change those but those are fairly standard and well understood cipher suite specs and the proposal here is that once we understand that there are no substantive changes to BP SEC then we build the cipher suites the interoperability cipher suites which then define the key value pairs and the operation for testing compatibility with VP sock implementations Spencer Dawkins so not as a expert in this space but just offhand I\u0027m guessing that some day before the earth falls into the Sun we\u0027re gonna need more we\u0027re going to be additional cipher suites so this is this way of organizing the document allows people to change what we\u0027re expecting to change easily with that you know and if somebody says oh it\u0027s a bigger change than that we have to eat open up VP sack "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:19",
    "text": "then we would know yeah we would not there would not happen as a text change because you were you know it\u0027s part of what you were doing to do something with the cipher suites is the right yeah the the intention of splitting the Interop cipher suite into its own draft was so that if a weakness was found yes in in whatever cipher suites were determined as a sensible based level Interop suite right then we could approve the Interop suite document we don\u0027t having to touch BP second if there was some fundamental cryptographic failure in the processes in VP sec then yeah that would update VP SEC but you\u0027d have to do that anyway exactly yeah so it\u0027s it\u0027s decoupling something that might change faster than the fundamentals of the process decoupling for the things you\u0027re expecting to change the things that you\u0027re not so it\u0027s that again this sounds like a plan to me thank you thank you Mark you however I think we shall say there\u0027s a must reference there\u0027s a dark dependency on on this graph right you cannot have a complete implementation if you\u0027re not implementing both drafts right because we want to have at least one cipher suite which is interoperable right so my point is we may want to those to address all together at the same time and being working group documents so if I recall from was it - working group meetings ago when when ran had attended and gave his uh we discussed this at that time and yes you\u0027re absolutely correct that at some point VP sac and the interoperability cipher suites need to come together I believe rands point although we should check the minutes was that if they happen to come together in an editor queue that\u0027s okay and if we allow this one to go forward so that we can focus our efforts on the next that would be at least fine with him but that\u0027s obviously up to the working group to decide what\u0027s the most appropriate thing mark here I think that I\u0027m not sure it will fly if we send a framework without a default cipher to the is G so I think we must send them all together with the is to the IOC I think we must you get to get the Spencer are you you\u0027re so so my point is that if we need mandatory cipher right for that technology there and we decided that it\u0027s on another document therefore they must be you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:21",
    "text": "strong reference between the two must implement this and also those two package together at the same time to the IG that\u0027s my point do you agree or not yeah and so what what is it what is the goal for sending it forward without the Cypress Creek document no timeliness but I mean so here is the answer but everybody\u0027s gonna peak at the dock at the draft and implement that anyway because you know because the because the VP SAG reference that draft so everybody will just go pick it there anyway returning question is that a viable option to say to the ISD know we\u0027re trying to paralyze a lot of this work so we\u0027re we\u0027re trying to get VP suckers are complicated enough documents as it stands yes we have a compatibility suite and we know this needs to be written but it\u0027s lagging a little bit behind can you just double-check the assumptions with a draft that is a working group document that will be coming to the iesg fairly soon will they just reject that out of hand well one of they won\u0027t I think I think if I wrote it like I say if I\u0027m trying to help what I\u0027m understanding you guys to be trying to do I can put in last call text that there you know there is a normative dependency on this on the on the on the cipher Suites draft that we\u0027re expecting it to be harder to you know we\u0027re expecting the VP SEC draft itself to require the kind of review where you\u0027re assuming that there will be a plausible cipher suite but that\u0027s not moat that that\u0027s really not which what it is is not really relevant to the review of that document and that you want to start the community review of that document early that is that fair mark ear respectfully yeah my own personal opinion yeah won\u0027t fly at all I I were security ad and you\u0027re pushing me a security technology without a cipher suite mandatory cipher suite then you\u0027re not flying that\u0027s my tape maybe wrong okay if you\u0027re trying to do something that\u0027s not violent to the process the other possibility would be just ask for early exec secretary with you now but you can do you know the chairs can do whenever you\u0027re ready and that doesn\u0027t require ietf last call clarifying questions so Rick Taylor had a early sec a D review of the cipher Suites or the BP SEC a BP SEC it\u0027s gonna blow up in Sector that will be safe last call to prove it so so I will I would just sort of add the the comments there that you know I certainly do from my point of view both of them "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:22",
    "text": "seem like you know viable paths forward one of the concerns that we had had was Jaco Rick\u0027s point the BP SEC is fairly complicated enough an interoperability cipher suite is necessary for implementation because if you don\u0027t have an interoperability Cypress suite how do you show interoperability however if you were to look at these draft documents I don\u0027t remember exactly but I think the interoperability cipher suite is maybe three pages the the amount of complexity in that document is relatively small because you say well we\u0027re going to use this cipher suite and and we\u0027re going to point to cozy for the for the keys and the value of the key enumerations and so on but more importantly a question becomes the the breadth of review that we are hoping to get from VP SEC is to understand symmetric key and asymmetric key different CONOPS different network deployments and so on I I would hope that the presence of an interoperability cipher suite would not reduce in some way the scope and the diversity of the review that we would hope to get out of VP second yeah and and just to be clear I am an area director that I\u0027m not directing the working group to do anything except the right thing here I\u0027m telling I\u0027m telling you what the two of us you have at your disposal so that you make an informed decision [Music] yeah that is the the left side but well that obviously not the last night because there\u0027s one more beyond it but it\u0027s less like with content okay so one of the things that was on the agenda was pushing VP SEC forwards for working group last call so based on that discussion we\u0027ve just had my suggestion as chair would be that we asked for an early SEC a D review if the working group is happy to put this into last call so BB SEC would go into last call that people are happy and we\u0027d ask for a sec ad review and there\u0027s SEC I\u0027d get the words right so the security Directorate early review and at the same time we would are you are asking for working group adoption or the working group probably should adopt the interoperability cipher suite as of documents because currently it\u0027s Ed\u0027s personal draft and that should be a working group document or a document of that sort again that\u0027s a question to the working group the idea being that we have security Directorate reviewing VP SEC prior to it going to the isg and we have an interoperability draft that is cipher suite sorry that is a working group document ready to line up at that point was that in slightest bit understandable and does anyone have any comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:22",
    "text": "Schiaparelli I I think I understood all that and and I agree with it I think we should do those things that you were saying just now okay Rick again I\u0027ll break it down into some questions does anyone on meet echo or in the room have any substantive comments or reason why they believe that BP SEC is not ready for working group last call obviously we will be asking this on the mailing list officially but I just like to get a sense of the room how many people have read it recently is perhaps a good question as well oh good so I\u0027m seeing that as sort of mild nodding assent so that\u0027s pretty promising does anyone have any substantive objection to accepting the interoperability cipher suite personal individual draft as a working group document they may disagree with the actual cipher suites detailed but the question is whether the document detailing a generic interoperable cipher suite selection can you comment anywhere again we\u0027ll take that to the list and I\u0027m seeing general nodding so I think is theirs yeah so I think it looks like we\u0027ve got away forwards with the security director review as well and we can make some progress with this document well with both of them thanks ed another topic that we had in the agenda that presentation was about TCP CL so the question to Rome ear is do do people feel that it\u0027s ready to send to the IOC or there\u0027s still remaining issues about this document please speak to Richard Davis and I\u0027m just doing a review of this at the moment so I have call or comments that I will sew into the list very soon and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s ready yet happy to help out and when should we expect your review I\u0027m sorry but you put you put yourself on this okay thanks for the review so we\u0027ll wait for that review and then see oh oh oh it effects the specs sorry this is almost a question to mark at that point so I just want to get a feeling of the room I know we\u0027re still seeing reviews coming in for TC PCL but I think the general consensus "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:25",
    "text": "of the working group is that it\u0027s an important document that needs to get to working group last call and sorry needs it\u0027s already in working group last call and it needs to get to the iesg fairly promptly because the because the intention of the group is that BP base BP sec and tcp CL get released as one package as a as a working system of documents Thank You Spencer as a working cluster of documents that define DTM transport so given the BP sick and BP base are now maturing and going up the pipeline can I ask people to have a good look at TCP CL to help Brian really drill it down because it\u0027s there\u0027s actually a lot of work involved in doing these things Brian\u0027s done sterling work on it but I think he you know it\u0027s a working group document it\u0027s not just Brian\u0027s documents so we\u0027ve got to help out as well and thanks for all of you who have been doing good reviews so next up ed again almost leave office slideshow as they\u0027re working I\u0027m starting I have three copies of labour office an elfin they\u0027re the reason does that help no that\u0027s BB sack goodbye ya know what is it doing yeah my screen is going i\u0027ll get the PDF so so while we are putting that up i can start with some of the front matter so so several years ago we started attempting to address the problem of what would it mean to perform network management in a highly delayed or contested environment and many of the observations that we had made up to that point involved the need for levels of automation and autonomy on individual nodes individual sensor nodes or knows that we\u0027re acting as cluster heads or other things when they don\u0027t have high availability high rate links back to network operators and that seemed to be a little bit different than the operational concepts around things like SNMP and and net mod and net conf and we started to look at other areas "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:25",
    "text": "where people had developed autonomy and automation models that went beyond filtering data but but also looked at local state based evaluation and the the engines and the expression mechanisms for putting that together in that in around 2013 or 2014 we did some prototyping of a system and some demonstration of how that system could work particularly how it could work in in highly constrained embedded environments and particularly in areas where we would have security concerns around mobile code and embedded code oh and here we are and and in all of that we came up with a couple of things and we we backed into it a bit we started with something called an asynchronous management protocol and and we realized that we had put speaking of dependencies and multiple dependencies into a single document we realized that what we had put together was an operational concept and a system model separate from a data model separate from a protocol which represented one potential encoding of that data model and so what we did was we broke those out into three separate documents the first one we\u0027ve labeled the asynchronous management architecture which is the AMA and is in its oh six latest draft and we will spend a little bit of time talking about that and then we have put together a data model associated with it which is captured in yang with JSON examples and then perhaps at one point an encoding would would also be an appropriate and helpful thing in this forum so today we\u0027re hoping to talk about was the asynchronous management architecture updates and the application data modeling the reason why we wanted to talk about this is that the working group does have a charter to discuss network management requirements and a question that we have brought to the working group a couple of times in the past has been if we put together an architecture that talks about system level roles and responsibilities CONOPS necessary primitives and the motivations for the kinds of problems that we are trying to solve and the desirable properties of a solution does that set of information comprise sort of enough to to satisfy the network management thoughts that are in our Charter so well and is one glass graphic to sort of summarize what I was saying in the front matter which was the the thought around this as a body of work was something like the AMA which we consider aspirational and then a data model which would be advisory and then at some later point some sort of encoding so the the AMA overview for those who have not read the document it has been largely unchanged in the past several revisions from oh five two oh six the the changes that were made were as follows sorry the changes are made were as follows is that we have fixed a few misspellings and and we provided a paragraph that clarified "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:26",
    "text": "our stance on tabular data or tables as a data structure in general the AMA defines service definitions as to what does it mean to manage a node asynchronously it is not simply monitoring data to get information back to an operator we we accept configuration and parameterised control and administration is part of the responsibility of a network management protocol in this area and then we came up with a series of desirable properties that we felt tuned this to the kinds of deployments we would be seeing for space systems for very embedded devices for and for areas where you have resource systems but do not often have periods of connectivity and those are the intelligent push of information pull models I think we understand don\u0027t work well in this space minimizing message size does become important both from a CPU and RAM margin perspective and also from making better utilization of bandwidth when you have it being able to identify data absolutely and also create customized views of it and and then of course the autonomous operations in all of that we propose a system model where you would have agents and managers in the system we try and reuse as much network management terminology as we can of course in describing the concepts and and we look at pre shared schemas which are you know for where necessary we support pre shared scheme is because that is again part of minimizing the overall amount of information and providing absolute identification of data we we have started discussions with a variety of folks who are looking at writing reference implementations of this and there are at least three that I know that are in various stages and there are some communities that are looking at implementations of managers and graphical interfaces and then there are some communities that are looking at agent implementations themselves in various languages and for various code bases in general that is the those are the highlights of the of the architectural model if you have not read the document of course it would be requested that you do so in terms of the data model this document takes the the primitives and the data structures that are theorized as part of the architectural model and provides a a definition of them using yang so in particular we wanted to separate the data specification from any of its potential encodings we have had discussions some people would like a hand packed binary encoding or a/c boring coding others would like an xml encoding it became very clear very quickly that the data model in order to be exchangeable and interoperable across various encodings need to be abstracted up a layer and so we have done that in this particular internet draft which is right now the draft bahrain dt n ATM 0/0 and in that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:27",
    "text": "we do have the data model which is graphically shown on the right where we have externally defined data which are data items that are sampled external from the network management system themselves such as from ABB converters and so on literals operators controls which are codes or commands that can also be well named much like the data strongly type variables and macros and time and state-based rules and reports and and tables and and those have been put together into a couple of different being structures which are also in the internet draft which we which we put together briefly here and then at the end of it it rolls up into what we call an application data model template which is something that we provide to potential users so that they can put their data model together in a in a generic form and then here would be an example of a a filled out JSON example to that template assuming that there aren\u0027t any you know future changes to that schema and then lastly just a single slide to to to wrap up which is that there are a couple of reference implementations associated with this and there really mentioned just to show that we are trying to make sure that as we put the the data models together in the roles and responsibilities together that these standards are unambiguous and implementable and that we are able to have a discussion of representative performance particularly CPU and RAM margin own representative platforms because it is important that we spec a system that is unambiguous and that doesn\u0027t overly burden the very resource constrained devices in which we would like it to run so that is that is where we are with the with the asynchronous management work there is there are two drafts that are out in particularly the AMA has been out for for some time and a question that has been asked both on the mailing list and in previous working groups is is the level of information that is there sufficient and useful to answering our network management questions for the working group I think it\u0027s worth pointing out the world also ed is meeting with a young doctor after this session to go through some of the finer details on some of the yang-ming coding because me personally without my chair hat on I think the yang in coding I think we\u0027re missing a trick here I think there\u0027s some clever of ways to do this yang so we\u0027re trying to reach out to the wider IGF community to get some some better understanding of what is quite a complicated Beast yang actually it\u0027s quite okay so Edie these are both personal individual drafts are you asking for working group adoption of these or are you just asking for people who may be sat in this room who might be interested "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:27",
    "text": "in working with you on this I\u0027m unclear Oh so my apologies so I am asking for working group adoption of the AMA spec we we have had it as a topic of conversation for several working groups I know that it\u0027s gotten a fair bit of review over the past year and a half and has not gone through any substantive changes in the past year and a half and then if anyone would like to participate on the ADM I would like eventually for the ADM document to also be adopted but I think that would be something that should come after the AMA document I think it\u0027s worth pointing out at this point that the asynchronous management methodologies that EDD is proposing here is is I don\u0027t think the intention would be that this would be the one true way of managing DTN based devices I think your suggestion and correct me if I\u0027m wrong is that this is a way of managing devices that fits a certain use case for other devices and systems using DTN you may want to use a more connected management solution or whatever so this is a this is one solution to the problem and I don\u0027t think there\u0027s the feeling from the working group is this shouldn\u0027t be the the only way that the we consider DTN based networks to be managed Schiaparelli and and it\u0027s not only my understanding is it\u0027s not only the only single one true way to manage a Deloitte or networking it\u0027s also a potential way to manage networks other than really tolerant networks is that correct and I think it\u0027s an important point for people to be aware of that there\u0027s a utility here beyond the DTN working group potentially utility beyond the DTM working group I think I\u0027d agree I think this has utility outside of this working group but I want to stress that I don\u0027t see this is the exclusive management proposition for the DTM working group I see it as a useful one not exclude so I\u0027ll just comment that I so certainly the the thought behind be asynchronous management architecture was to say if you make certain assumptions on the characteristics of your network and your ability to to manage them under those scenarios then this is the architecture that you will find yourself falling into even if you wind up doing that with a different data model or with a different set of encodings in in that sense it\u0027s hard to say something is the one and true you know at this early stage but what we can say is we have not at this point identified operational constructs that cannot be fit within the AMA architecture if if there are pre-existing deployments or if there is additional back-channel or alternative mechanisms that essentially do not incur the constraints of that AMA is trying to solve then then certainly there are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "other options beyond AMA but to Scott\u0027s point when we have talked to some people who are not deploying DTN they\u0027ve come back and looked at this from an automation standpoint and said really as a matter of cost and understanding putting that level of automation into these devices that does not involve mobile code that does not involve running you know and deploying scripts and that does not that does not require well the level of attention that other solutions that they are trying to deploy requires has been motivating for them even though they do have the connectivity so it\u0027s it\u0027s difficult to make a one-to-one mapping between where this is so late but the long comment is I\u0027m sure there are other ways to get up the mountain if you will but the the AMA I believe is uniquely suited for DTM in those constraints even for the non DTN people who are coming in they\u0027re coming in because they appreciate the autonomy and automation that we know we need as an existencial enabler as opposed to simply a cost saver yeah understood so nicely following from that I think the next presentation is on an alternate way that one might want to manage things over DT ends which is why I was setting up to say that although personally I think this is this is a very elegant solution to automation I believe there are other ways to manage systems that are using DTM as a transport so thanks that so next up we have tae Jin Lee I\u0027m afraid my Chinese pronunciation is really bad so I can only apologize if I have your name wrong thank you I know genius is you have to be very close to the mic a morning everyone and my name is Tai Chi Lee and I am now Beijing Jiaotong University today I will give a presentation about the draft about Software Defined the TDM based satellite networks and sorry for my poor spoken English and the English listening I\u0027m very sorry this is this is an impossible graft and this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:31",
    "text": "drop is about a use case of DTN and we applied it in the speech networks and research in the draft is implementation of the teaching and it is quoted by or by the national portrait in China and in the in the project they aim to build integrated space and the terrestrial network and my focus is on is on the business is on this business work and I proposed so to use it in slower get her voted her transmission and the STM folder control first identity why our interest to lose DTM in this basement work as being a bit anticipation not to work how how several characters for example the transmission the transmission delay is very long and settle on links interrupt a frequently this is the Kemper is comparison comparison the protocols that can be used in the space network as we can see eta is designed for the space network but it is still in the experimental stage however these years many many earrings has been converted about using the TTA interspace network scott me movies invented by NASA is a there is nothing is very good typically applied in the satellite during their scenes where there is no counted end-to-end pass between the source and destination so relational design is a very suitable for satellite network links okay then I\u0027ve introduced why I chose to use a steam engine in this business work as we know there are many there are main problems in the traditional satellite networks for example silicon decoration in Flast boat traffic engineering and efficient service delivery so we need a new design in the past years a local approach as our focus focus on the new the new architecture was a tightening of certain networks for example the internist is come scan by maybe and in China we also have many mission approaches about you sittin architecture and so yeah you know project is proposed to here\u0027s the sta Innerspace Network fold better can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:33",
    "text": "show and the pattern management never introduces the three key points of the guitar design the first one in the separated can show pony and a floating plan and which replace replace the controller under GGO a satellite and is a floating devices on the MU and the new satellites and sure separate to separate to can show play and the floating plane we here\u0027s 220 from the set after IOM script and that is a very used iOS quipped of the control plane a controlling and the way us the island script rotator link to set of iOS quipped and are different so we I mean this way we separate the control panel and the floating plan and all other culture the whole architecture is called the software-defined satellite networks SDS N and second one is abundant who know we deployed open flow over DT Impala method to know that is signaling packets are transmitted in bundle to know when controller can make his way suspicious and as we can see from the figure the overflowing deter they are encapsulated in the payload of the Ponto package as the third one is that gateway and the pizza satellite get away aged located between between the space network and the rest to network and we may deploy the DTM anticipated by directional protocol translation function on the satellite its way and the in addition we modify IOM - so not H can support the ipv6 unless other introduced the model of the Alba SDS in event being designed his model we had to consider there they had to consider there are characters output post post it in anger SD this oh sorry my Linux laptop doesn\u0027t particularly like PowerPoint I already apologized yes DSM the transmission a packet of the packet can be divided into two stages and first the first stage is that the back of the packet arrived as the satellite and as a packet a store in a store locally and the second stage has is that if there is a variable pass so the circuit is afforded to the nest of the hop and the controller world Hauser Takeda where to where to forward and both are was a two-stage can be modeled "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:35",
    "text": "as mm when I\u0027m on one kills and open flow Network a basic human theory we make some modification and we modify modify the the model in the lastest slide to the model in this slide in we make some equally equivalent transformation and so we can use the Jackson the Jackass another in the quirian theory to model not nodes and then we make another experiment to to verify the to verify the Muto and we baby people at the post controller are Iowan and open innovation to encounter experiment and we events a model a meth lab and we compare the experimental rates out ends a numerical result and as we can and as a contrast term is the fire serving time I would say is the file serving time it is that it eights the first packet Alfaro a rabbit a second satellite to to the last the last peg so that\u0027s a packet our file leave those satellites and this time is called fail certain time they could be comparators certain time others experiment without answer and the numerals out and we can see from the figure that the numerical results and the experimental results are very closed then I introduced during implementation averse DSM and these are the parameters of the three Bear constellation may use videos this considered the constellation contains a 60 16 666 Leo satellites and 10 Meo satellites and the story 300 satellites and this is integrated space terrestrial network protocol and my focus is in the SPR inter in the satellite network we we have we have several high-performance servers and the way deploy way deploys our the satellites under OpenStack and OpenStack are gradually in the running servers and we employ the DTM to ACIP tcp/ip protocol transit ran solution on a function on the sj1 sj2 sts-3 is a 4.8 away and in the SMC isn\u0027t mean the satellite network management center and all over all over the virtual notes the news aims at rest or are real computers and is our the music in the interspace "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:37",
    "text": "our version are what she knows so it\u0027s also virtual nodes and that means our physical nodes consist out as a whole protocol and the links are configured by naming so traffic to control to and the connected connections and the parameters of links are abstract from a sticker that is page render the three layer the constellation SDK and the captor so current the parameters are links and they use that such the linux traffic and so to to to simulate that the links as similar to simulate the fact the parameters are the link and this the machines of our protocol and we held eight high-performance servers and the 28 computers we use as we as a higher site we have a user high-performance servers to hold so what role the Virtual Set revenues and they use the 28 computer to to create the terrestrial network and the terrestrial network contains a small data center and more power under mobile network and then at last I was introduced to his kisses I also make it come the first case a is a silent is and the first the youth case act olicity the atha means that our user or user want to send some data to the terrestrial network and first is the link is that the transmission link is the link one but the way it becomes very bad and the Piccolo\u0027s rate increase so the controller can collect this information and sends the information to to the s am c sm c ZN then make a new floating through and the send it to the suitor controller in the convert ryu satellite the junior certain as them allocated that the 14 jul 2 2013 8 - they are linked to and this is on this figure a defibrillator is the result the second okay okay the second the second is kiss is the residence and is the network versus which residence this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:38",
    "text": "is it help story about 101 host ranchers in the to me one I want to stand some veto - me too - me too and personally swish in the in the pants boots down and the controller in the 12 to network class this information and new and the McNew forwarding rules and the past switch to another another pass in the earth through networks only and fortunately another switch in their past or post on here and the end this situation is created by duress AMC and SMC mixer new for the angels to to steer to steer the teach the traffic and for food for the world where there is network the end we can see the last we can see that the red line is a pass that connected her trust me are transmitted aware aware the space network and I think this use kiss can be used in the FRG found a backhaul network service and this is a this is the result or we get the thicker okay these other these papers are very little work and let\u0027s may have published and all over the papers are about and the SDS a and the integrated space and terrestrial network and if you\u0027re interested in working you can download these papers and then read it sometime very much questions you need the microphone is very sensitive so you have to speak straight you know how do you suggest the geo and Leo / meal assets talk to each other there is no I sell between gon sorry are you mean why why boy are you interchange the transit arrives to control no I mean to say I\u0027m not aware of any geo satellite and you know satellites that have an inter satellite link that works do you understand the question so the links between between the satellites between Jo and neo how do you communicate between the two because it\u0027s our oh "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:45",
    "text": "there\u0027s the the control one and affording one talk to each other yeah in in in the real world I\u0027m not aware of any satellites satellites or existing satellites that have that inter satellite connection but networking is icing is and examples are SpaceX and the ocap and the bum rap they propose to use many many many small satellites to create a network and so there must appease a satellite links between the satellites and so so one web is not going to happen to satellite links or three B networks does not have into satellite links its operational SpaceX has announced that it\u0027s going to have inter satellite links but only within the Leo assets SpaceX is not planning on launching any geo asset yeah in China there\u0027s there\u0027s two types of companies that have a geo asset with a lower orbiting asset there\u0027s government\u0027s so NASA will have a US government will have it China government yeah and yes Oh which has the oh three P assets now in China and we have some research research accounts or some other links talking about for now there it is it is a very difficult for for so two little eyes they are because they are very the distance it\u0027s very it\u0027s very long and that later can can very hard Toto to to communicate it\u0027s a very hard yeah but this the working they work in this draft is about something maybe happen in the future and our project is our work in the jobs is a piece down that\u0027s our project and our project is someone that we may research the future the future technology yeah we saw we do some research about about this so I have oh sorry I just a truck this might not be the right forum to talk about Leo to geo satellite link technology instead somewhere about the the DTM transport and I if I think I understand tell Jim he was saying that this is a prototype implementation to test the use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:47",
    "text": "of DTN for the management rather than individual satellite technologies so I think that\u0027s probably out of scope sorry then in that case I have a slightly more relevant follow-up and let me know if it is relevant for this forum the choice of using a Geo asset for the control plane is interesting because even Meo satellites are closer to the earth than they are to a Geo acid so you would have a faster connector connection to a ground station than to the geo satellite so you talking about why way why I proposed three years ago geo throw control right can I interrupt again I not sure the relevance that I don\u0027t think the ITF is the right forum for that I think it might be more CC STS sure or talk about it offline afterwards but yeah I think absolutely I think it\u0027s an interesting conversation for you guys to have later Thanks okay thank you thank you I at brain APL and I so so there has been a lot of good work that is trying to understand how do we take these kinds of concepts LTE concepts open flow concepts Sdn concepts and move them into these areas where we have the dis lay and the disruption a question that I had and I have not read the draft and I apologize for that is do you feel where do you have to modify the protocols so that they can account for the delays because without talking about spacecraft architectures when we come back and say you know the links in general whether it\u0027s a Geo link or a Leo link or some other link the links are not reliable they are much slower it is one of the reasons why in these particular instances many organizations don\u0027t want to spend the money to try and make them and make them reliable so so when we talk about this are you changing any aspect of the open flow or the Sdn protocols themselves or are you only tunneling them over BP yeah you\u0027re right and it\u0027s a link between the geo and Daniel is not is not reliable yeah you\u0027re right and then this is it this may be our next steps and to to to to work on on this to work on this field and the way for now for now for now on the way we just we just make we just the deploy the open floor just the open floor what did you and not oh so much modification have we have not done much modification and we just write us as small as normal door - Ji Hyo and as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:51",
    "text": "controller and the space is each other so and yeah and not maybe how not very much magnification and yeah and you may find that that that may help in some of the situations as well as to look at making the applications that sit above BP delay tolerant as well thank you you look what I\u0027m I\u0027m bit surprised that s the end that open flow messages are actually happy being late holler and from what I understood from the Sdn community is that they were somewhat surprised to realize that different latency is for reaching difference which is in very well connected and and short RT t networks tend to be tend to raise it or create problems for inconsistence which states that might result in all kinds of things because you\u0027re installing in different and different switches that are ideally supposed to take effect immediately so making this even more delay-tolerant doesn\u0027t seem to raise a number of issues in terms of a switch configuration consistency and I\u0027m wondering whether you have any thoughts on this [Music] the open flow just adjust the worker between the GAO and the ami also sir so Canadian data also contributor are not stored in their nose adjust the package the data packets are stolen on the nose and ER so the open flow ignoring the adjuster can choose a forwarding so they are not stored in there yeah you\u0027re right Detra are not restored under they just control you just control III and the RTT yet about it here between the Jo and the MU is a very long but in our experiment it it was okay it is okay to to encapsulate in the open floor it\u0027s a movie theater in in the payload of our packet I was upon a packet and it works a task it has worked yeah being stored and forwarded then then why do you need to encapsulate them in the first place then because the away baby uses our videos DTM in there in the home in your home in the network and the way junk we didn\u0027t want a vertical transmission in the network in the u.s. is network because certain notes are limited in their being in processing in processing capabilities so the whole host a try to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:51",
    "text": "network Arkansas based on pigeon and so we just baby of only and we believe on - we don\u0027t - we don\u0027t know about her a better control in the satellite network so we use the STL means and I need Walker Anders so we how to think about think about our master or two so deploy the Odin flow on their underneath here so they shows two ratios flowing campus in campus innate the open floor did her in the foil packet idea about a two-phase commit atomic transaction protocol in order to make sure that all your elements in your network are configured to the same version of the state that you want to achieve at the same time and and and I haven\u0027t I haven\u0027t just that seems to be an upcoming problem to me but thank you Masha can you move the slide for the gateway I\u0027m I\u0027m not sure I understand this one from the graphics you seem to translate TCP into bundle yeah you tunneling or you\u0027re translating congestion control of TCP and windows I\u0027m how does that work because the whole tuhoe protocol is about our spacing let\u0027s Joe interpreting network so so when the deter translated between those base interests really must be protocol translation and we just do this we just we just gap that gangs are bound to the payload out the payload of their of their TCP packet and and encapsulated into a reputable a fondo upon a packet understand to another and and a zero is there address mapping and there and learning the other way Fernando the IPM IP m113 is is an app tool to another ipv6 or ipv4 address and then there weren\u0027t so transmission occurs so that the condense or the payload in another packet and in there so address I also I also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:52",
    "text": "transmitted before basis address to order IP address so you\u0027re essentially taking the payload inside the TCP and then put it in bundle oh yeah and then you terminate terminating the TCP connection term there yeah yeah Adrian Farrell bringing this here it\u0027s a interesting discussion and thanks to the chairs for making time for it some on the topic of yes I\u0027m talking of Sdn and reliability I think that the Sdn architecture and application is delay tolerant so the question about whether we need a two-phase commit or whatever is really a choice of what Sdn protocol is used if you use an SDM protocol that is resilient because it\u0027s got an acknowledgment then then the network will not get out of phase and dgn is all you need if you use a an SDN protocol that makes assumptions like it\u0027s a right only non acknowledged protocol then yes you will get synchronization issues so there\u0027s a little bit of investigation to be done on whether OpenFlow is the right Sdn protocol to use okay thank you Schiaparelli APL two things one is the the diagram that is on the screen right now the satellite gateway this book gate weighing between a tcp/ip and Bunnell protocol at the gets allocated way clear they will work I would propose that it would be even easier to to run bundle protocol underneath the application data from the ground node all the way to the satellite node and rather than gateway and just have this satellite gateway instead be a DTM bundle forward or rather than an address matcher but that\u0027s a we don\u0027t have to talk about that right now and I just think that\u0027s a cleaner easier and and and and simpler and easier to manage configuration that we could discuss the other thing I wanted to observe is that I unfortunately don\u0027t know a darn thing about Sdn but but if there\u0027s a if there is an issue about coordinating Sdn configuration values across networks so that everything is consistent then the delay tolerant way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:55",
    "text": "of doing that would be to encapsulate the Sdn messages in I think in in time tagged messages and so that they would be distributed in advance of the time that they need to become effective and then and received in advance and and held pending the the effect of time of messages so that everything does come into alignment and and consistent configuration at the same time based on time and maybe that\u0027s beyond the scope of what can normally be done with Sdn but it seems to me to be a straightforward way of ensuring a consistent configuration across the network I I wonder how could Gio\u0027s ensure the control of the envelopes and arrows could you give us a general RTT time and is it possible that the whole system would be broken when gos go round or be attacked by huge amount of fake forwarding switches and since the number of gos are strictly limited so how could you approach the security issues in of st on your system yeah you\u0027re right and the security about this item is very important research point ie our attention we have before now we have we have three cheese at right and aluminum address the bank also can show and for example Oh a one for the ones Gio is attached or at the police town and the other the other satellite will take our ability and can show the network state if all over the three if all over the 3G also transports down in the yeah that\u0027s for now for now no satellite communication system is just for one one senior surprise and the teacher stand from the straight one and true that\u0027s to the certain area and it\u0027s jus satellite feed her to the ground I mean I mean this this is retarted and all over the communication system goes down so I think for now they have to weigh just how to make her more satellite I mean just as that happen more supply for example of a house right now but we don\u0027t know in future we may have five or six seven or eight "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:01",
    "text": "[Music] [Music] [Music] [Music] another ability to cooking shows a whole network about this throughout that whether we could carry out a plan B maybe that whole system just don\u0027t grate to the for multi tier one okay sunny thank you thank you Scarborough and actually on this this last topic a central concern of detainee architecture about the last 20 years has been you know this this kind of thing and the sort of canonical way to address this if I understood the problem I understand the problem correctly is to D BT SEC essentially signatures on on messages and and for all the forwarding notes that that can pass data to the the controller to require that the the Polaroids of our of the messages pass integrity signature verification before they\u0027ll get forwarded so that the controller is shielded from inauthentic traffic we should be able to do that kind of thing with with the protocols that that are that are being designed and that have been prototyped in in the earlier versions of the DTM DTN stack thank you thank you very much if we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "don\u0027t have any further person is somebody monitoring jabber I know we asked for a jabber subscribe okay if you were on me TECA or jabber and you wish to speak can you use the interactive walk to the mic things as we are failing to monitor jabber at the moment thank you very much for that the next up I think we have Kapali presenting for then we just find his slides [Music] oh I didn\u0027t recognize me yep let me just work out - Mary is this I hate this screen second right you have to be like mmm it\u0027s good yeah all right good morning everybody so I\u0027ll be speaking about this internet draft that we have put up and that\u0027s the URL for that the footer and this is about delay-tolerant key administration how do we do key administration for the DTN Network so the motivation for this particular draft is on-demand interactive communications cannot be assumed in the DTN model so that\u0027s one reality the other one is today for key management we you in for example in SSL we have certificates and for revocation we have online certificate status protocol and these require interactions near real-time interactions and so that\u0027s clearly not possible in the DTN communication model so we need DT and friendly public key distribution and revocation protocol suite and this talk is about that so the way I have organized this presentation is I\u0027ve just done a screenshot so whatever you see on the black font is straight from the RFC internet draft and the blue fonts is annotations for this presentation so this is the high level architecture for what we are proposing as delayed order and key administration and it\u0027s actually abstract so the there are three entities key owner key authority and key user the key owner is the person "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:04",
    "text": "or the entity that possesses the private key corresponding to the public key that needs to be distributed the key Authority is responsible for a certain in the association between an address and the public key so we have node ID and key so that Association the key Authority has to authenticate and if it is satisfied with authentication it has to periodically send a list of authenticated such authenticated Tubb pupils to distributors key user people so this is the high-level abstract architecture and these are the three entities so when we go a little bit towards the detailing part of the architecture so we have we assumed this kind of DDK a system inter inter connection and so we assume that between the DTK key agents so I did have to tell you something about the DTK key agent so we we see the key authority here right so the key Authority in the abstract flow is shown as a single block now that is a requirement for delay-tolerant key administration that there should be no single point of failures and we have to really distribute the key authority to multiple entities in a fail-safe manner and how we do that is this if your object-oriented program or you can think of a key authority as an abstract class and we will have key agents which you will see the next slide as concrete classes but really implemented so that\u0027s the flow over from this slide into this slide so we DTK a key agents and a bunch of these DTK icky agents act as the key authority for a given application domain and we assume that all the DD care key agents are are connected by a reliable link so that they can synchronize the authorities in for that particular entity are synchronized within each other and the communication between the authorities and the key users that can be delay tolerant and the communication between the key owner and authorities that can also be delay torrent in fact we do not expect any real-time communications and one of the important system configuration SPECT here is the public key of all the key authorities are physically configured on every node "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:04",
    "text": "that\u0027s the system bootstrapping something like how your browsers have the root public keys in them when they are installed so this is something like that so coming back to the abstract concept this is the avoiding the single point of trust that I said previously and so the key authority role is distributed amongst multiple key agents and and we will talk about more of how this is done how it is distributed and how it is made failsafe we are going to talk about that so we will now concentrate on the first link that the interaction between the key owner and the key Authority we call that the node key registration and this is a protocol where the key owner claims a particular association with the key Authority and the key authority has to authenticate it and see if that association is acceptable or not and we in the draft we identify two such company modes of communication for this first link one is an out-of-band bootstrapping this could be a USB a link so they\u0027re the key owner which will have to create a USB give it to an authority the authority will physically go and verify and if it is valid accept it that\u0027s the out-of-band approach and that\u0027s the in band approach also possible if the node ID was issued public key previously or previously the key Authority accepted a node ID previously and it wants to get a new public key so in that case the in Matt in band is okay so both are allowed in the draft so now that we saw how the key owner is going to claim a particular address key association with the key authority the next phase is okay now the key Authority has accepted the tuple as authentic and how does it send it out so it has to send a list of authenticated nor a it\u0027s basically bulking it\u0027s a bulk sent so it have it has to collect all the authentications from key owners and send it as a bulk it can\u0027t send one if it wants to but if the Association is in a bulk and this particular communication we we assume is going to be protected by the bundle integrity block of DTN employing the key authorities private key so this is why everybody has to have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:04",
    "text": "the key authorities public key or every key agents public key must be available with everybody in the system and again instantaneous receipt of these public key updates is not assumed so they are just bulletins they are going to go with delays and different key users are going to receive the bulletin with delays with variable delays and the have to process it locally as synchronously so the message format for the key updates this is what we have proposed for the bulletin so that\u0027s the list of key authenticated node ID comma key tuples and the bulletin format is basically there\u0027s going to be a bulletin hash so this will be formed by every key agent that belongs to the aggregate of key authority and each element of the bulletin will have a key information mesh message which is basically a node ID effective time after which the key is valid so it is sometime in the future and this node ID come up of the key is valid after the time and again that is an instruction about asset rework or rollover so these are the three operations on that particular key information message that a synchronous entity can do Rick Tyler / good question why the bullets in a hash if you\u0027re using VP SEC then you\u0027ve already got integrity in a hash mark already a bundle there do you see benefits is this for interoperability where you leave the DTN no it is it is it is like we will see that we have to eventually we are not going to send this bulletin assets so we are going to code this bulletin and send so this bulletin is going to send us code blocks so and multiple key agents we are just going to send the code blocks and not the bulletin so they have to associate the various code blocks and and the key hash is going to help them as a unique pointer from multiple people Schiaparelli JK I was just to interject your one thing that may not have been clear is that before the the list of authenticated node IDs and and and public keys is issued that that bulletin has to be has to be developed as a consensus among all of the agents of the distributed key authority and that so that that single "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:06",
    "text": "bulletin has to be bit for bit identical as distributed by each of the agents individually and the bulletin hashes is what essentially identifies that bulletin and invalidates that that it\u0027s that it is the bulletin on which all of the agents reach consensus right so we will see yeah that\u0027s a that\u0027s so it\u0027s basically unique pointer that all the key agents agree and that they must agree and we assume that they have agreed previously yeah thank you so this is how the bulletin is formed and again as I said the bulletin is not sent asses the bulletin is a racial coded that\u0027s a Q plus ke racial coding done on the bulletin independently by each key agent and the if they form this code blocks using the the bulletin again as Scott said every key agent must use the same bulletin in the same bit order and that\u0027s why the hash ensures that the bit order is correct between all of them and so q q+ k racial coding is done at the authority x and it\u0027s it\u0027s a little bit more than a racial coding we will come to that in the next slide but q progress Q plus K ratio coding is performed and what is sent on the wire is actually the code blocks that\u0027s figure four and that\u0027s a bulletin hash which is carried over from the bulletin code block number which is assigned for that particular key authority what a set of code block numbers that that authority is allowed to transmit and the code blocks themselves now as I said previously this code these code blocks the security for this is over the bundle integrity block so there so when we send it that is a natural signature that\u0027s present in the bundle integrity block and everybody gets a signed copy of this code block so we are not dealing with that VP SEC will take care of that and just - this is a fictitious example that we have proposed of how we can make assign a particular code block number for a particular key agent right so over here it\u0027s a 7 + 1 e ratio coding that we assume is used and we assume that five out of eight key authorities the code blocks from five out of eight key "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:06",
    "text": "authorities are have to be received before the bulletin is reconstructed minimally five out of eight if you get more than five that\u0027s good but and that\u0027s where I think the consensus the consensus that were reached previously now every receiver key user can verify that the consensus was indeed reached but this is sort of a proof that the consensus is reached and so for example over here we have eight key authorities ka 1 2 K 8 and because we have a 7 plus 1 coding we have blocks 0 to 7 for a particular block and what what we do is we assign we inform like it\u0027s again this is a system level configuration that every user is told that these are the like ka one will only transmit code block numbers 0 1 \u0026 2 if any other code block is received by K from K a one that is ignored so this is a system spaz configuration system security configuration that is that is configured manually just like the root public key configuration is configured manually on every node so we have K 1 2 K 8 3 blocks each and you can see that to get at least seven blocks they have to wait for messages from at least five key authorities for example K 1 2 3 4 5 when you get everything of course there\u0027s redundancy built in you get six blocks and you can reconstruct so this is one way of doing it and again coming to the summary of the presentation DTK is a public key distribution and revocation mechanism for BTN and it uses bundle protocol Security\u0027s bodily integrity block to provide non-repudiation and authentication and it uses q plus key racial coding to distribute trust in key authorities and it is configurable the number of key authorities is configurable and the idea of a key Authority many key authorities aggregating into a mini key agents aggregating into a key Authority is to realize no single point of failure requirement for GDK and the details are in Internet traffic thank you Rick Taylor again I really like this I sorry it took me a moment to get up to speed with the hash but the one question is you don\u0027t have any temporal consistency checks in here so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:06",
    "text": "that you get your your code blocks for for now with drop and add mmhmm but it\u0027s not sort of cross it\u0027d be nice to include the hash of the previous update you were supposed to have got a bit like looking at a git tree I can I can start to see some generational information right have you considered that or is that gonna break something I know I think the reason it\u0027s not like this is a minimal information set so here we so that\u0027s one assumption in DTN that is inherent is the clocks in every DT and node is synchronized that\u0027s one assumption and we actually carry that assumption forward by saying okay now that the clocks in every DT and node is synchronous with a little bit of drift maybe a few seconds rift is tolerable and then the key effective time is a synchronization at future point in time so yeah I understand the fact that you can you can pin when this halogen hash should come into into into effect my question is if a node has been a key user note has been out for a long time away from the system comes back receives a whole batch of of bulletin hashes ah right all right and doesn\u0027t know that when missies were sufficient write it so the code to not realize a revocation has occurred right it would be nice if in the same way that you\u0027ve got your your FEC allows you to say oh I haven\u0027t had a sufficient bits - yeah consensus to do the same through time to say right oh I missed update number 17 I shouldn\u0027t be using 18 and 19 and 20 s keys yet because I don\u0027t know what\u0027s happened right I think that\u0027s a good good question having proved hash after your bulletin hash in your packet would might solve that right I think if the question as I understand is what if one of the key users completely loose on one bulletin and how would they synchronize and after that and today I think we have assumed that a bulletin that is sent is going to be received but I think that\u0027s a good point that we can consider scope all right if you know that that\u0027s what I thought the question was going to be I had an answer for which is that the synchronization of time across the nodes is done necessarily critical because the application of the keys by effective time is on the basis of the bundle creation time and so it doesn\u0027t even if the even if your clocks are wildly off you apply the public key that that matches the creation time of the bundle "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:07",
    "text": "to which the public key is being applied but I understand that\u0027s not the question the question is is it slow yeah so we need like a blockchain kind of thing oh I wouldn\u0027t I was gonna avoid blockchain yeah same or gate history style rather than trying to get it blockchain well but I think that\u0027s that\u0027s a that\u0027s a really good point what if what if what if bundled what if I pull them gets missed all together what do you do about that and I think it\u0027s a really good thing to consider the one other thing I wanted to mention is it might not have been clear from the way the overlap diagram was built I mean the intent of that overlap is is to ensure that not only is there no single point of failure there\u0027s also no single point of authority that is no single bundle agent is allowed to say here\u0027s what the bulletin is it has to be a consensus and that\u0027s that\u0027s why only a subset of the bulletin can be issued by each node and not only can there be no single point of failure and no single point of authority but also no single point of veto that is no single note that decides to issue you know junk information can sabotage the system right at brain APL when when we talked about the thresholds for the for the actions except a key revoke a key role over a key is there a concept in the spec of being able to have different thresholds per action so the question would be would you can would you consider a time in which the the the number of key authorities necessary to add a key is different than the number of key authorities necessary to revoke a key okay can you repeat the question so the vulnerabilities are a little bit different you know if I come back and say I have a higher burden of proof to accept a key because I don\u0027t want to use a key that is wrong is there a lesser burden of proof to revoke a key because if a key is revoked but it\u0027s going to take me a certain amount of time before I see enough key Authority messages do you do you have a concept that those different actions require different levels of consensus or do they all require the same level of consensus yeah the current design is they all require the same level of consensus among like if it is a five out of eight scheme all at least five people should say revoke or at least five people should say accept okay or roll over so that\u0027s coming across all three so then the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:09",
    "text": "comment would be that that may be fine but it may be dependent upon the network and the kind of traffic as to whether or not you feel that the vulnerability stance is the same if you keep the the if you keep it to five in all cases yes so that\u0027s a configuration by the way so the T out of n is a configuration for the operation so they could actually do one out of one in which case it\u0027s a veto if they say one out of two one out of three so that we that actually so we provide the mechanism to have a liberal policy but the policy is actually a configuration detail of the operation okay so it does have the granularity of the operation so you could say you\u0027re so it is this revoke is it but only only the mechanism does not provide as you rightly identified as assert revoke and rollover have the same consensus model like if it is one out of two five out of eight it\u0027s a same so so when they come will be it may be worth just investigating whether to to add that extra level of fidelity okay so location is done faster than something like that well there may be cases there may be network deployments where I need five I need five or six key authorities to agree on a key before I add it but if any three revoke that I\u0027m going to revoke that may be a function of the dynamics of my network and and how rapidly I need to revoke a key versus how long I\u0027m willing to wait before I accept the key got it I saw a Rick Tyler just jumping the queue slightly personally I can see that being quite difficult with this because you wouldn\u0027t know whether the bullet whether you were allowed to accept the bullet in with your queue out of T continued accepted The Bulletin so I think it\u0027s meta information I agree with you that this is config how you would dynamically alter the config maybe another whole protocol yeah you know Anna Scott Perot the JPL just just because this is a topic that\u0027s very interesting to me I a concept here has been that the key revocation can be just as mischievous as as false key distribution so it may be a different level of scrutiny applies but but that that in itself seems dangerous to me but if you needed it then I think it would have to be a separate the way this is designed it would have to be a separate channel you have to have like a channel for P distribution and a separate channel with a different set of configuration parameters for revocations it could conceivably use over 800 again it could conceivably use the same "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:09",
    "text": "mechanisms but you\u0027re right it\u0027s a separate out to ban channel from this exactly it\u0027s all based on it could be different set of multicast groups one other thing I should mention is it\u0027s not actually the bundle integrity block anymore that\u0027s now the blocking tonight sorry thank you any further questions otherwise thank you very much coupon you so much thank you Oh are you asking for working group this is a individual draft you asking for working group adoption or are you interested in feedback and might do another up Rev and decide later yeah I think I just we just discussed this I think we are just we are not asking for a working group now we are asking for feedbacks I think we will be looking at it at at some point in the future okay thank you so we now have a bit of an open mic so if anyone has any general questions queries comment announcements entertaining stories otherwise uh Brian C post is heading to the mic go ahead Brian so I know I don\u0027t have a slot and I know I didn\u0027t ask her one but since there\u0027s a little bit of time I will just mention that the comments that have come in yet on the TCP CL have been good editorial ones and so far there\u0027s really been only one pending change to the protocol itself to the size of the extension headers and everything else beyond that encoding the size of the expansion headers that was commented on but besides that all the comments have either been typos nomenclature or affecting the sort of alternate processing paths rather than the main typical processing path which is good so I\u0027m expecting to get another version of the draft out shortly and then any comments come in after that it can be revised further thank you very much Brian as it\u0027s Ricky um I I was I did receive a prompting email from the document management system to say the current draft expires on Monday yeah and so it\u0027d be quite nice that if it didn\u0027t expire between now and Monday yes like that no pressure and you have a kendo pending revision that I missed a chance to commit uh just before the meeting their trouble that\u0027s all I have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:09",
    "text": "Brian Marquis I don\u0027t know if you heard but we are expecting a review soon or your document yes I did want to get just because there was that that one structural change to the contact header I did want to get that out just so that it\u0027s available sure I don\u0027t think anyone has any objection to a number of quick revs you know if you want to make the change and put it out you it costs nothing ready okay thank you Brian so if there\u0027s any other no other comments would like to summarize were you know next steps we will be sending the BP best to is G we\u0027re waiting for the write-up of the document shepherd as soon as it\u0027s there then we\u0027re sent it to the is G TCP CL will as we just described discuss will be waiting for review and final final draft and we will send this to the AIA G on this there\u0027s a big change you know the spec which we are aren\u0027t seeing at the moment we will ask working group to adopt the custody transfer draft to be a working group item the last working group for a working group adoption for the Seifer Interop draft will ask a security Directorate review for the BP SEC we\u0027ll do a working group last call on BP SEC and we\u0027ll ask a working group adoption for the draft DT nama that\u0027s kind of a large pile of things so expect a lot of emails in the next weeks for all those adoptions requests and things like that no other comment then we\u0027ll close the meeting 1:12 okay thank you very much and thank you very much for the speakers and presenters always helpful "
  }
]