[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:27",
    "text": "just better to wait until three or four past anyway and I guess we're going to be a small team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:49",
    "text": "so Kirsten can you hear me are you at your computer yes I am now okay great"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "yeah I think we can start I wouldn't bet on more people joining in the next 30 seconds at least okay we have waited the customer four minutes here we are forecast yes okay uh okay just for my welcome everyone this is an interim meeting of the co-working group and Marco my coaches are uh I'm a man and Kirsten Borman and of course do not well apply I guess uh the four of us noted them very well uh so far uh you know the rules uh not only iprs but also the specially uh code of conduct uh for today we have um from the original plan to documents uh Target attribute that was adopted today we're very good support I would say and looks quite clear how to proceed but uh we wanted to to touch on it a bit today um and then we have href mostly about outstanding issue and the just creative PR and we actually have yet another point on the agenda about the Arata resolution that was originally planned for the next intern but we can start having a look at that today already okay I think these are all the points for today so you can start casting if you want with Target attributes yeah so what we need to do with this document is make sure that we have those initial registrations India that we we need to have and right now it looks like we are out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "racing uh the a dog document so we might as well just work with a very small list of Target attributes that are defined in rfcs at this point in time and that of course also makes it simpler to uh complete this document so by by doing that we are even more likely to outrace uh the ad hoc document so that's what I would uh propose to do next so take out all the internet draft uh oriented uh elements of the initial registrations and push the rest through uh and as reasonably fast I mean we're not in a hurry but uh right we don't want to generate additional weight either and for information more on the bike shedding side we plan to submit soon a revision of the core Oscar edoc document one defining Target attributes because as we agreed we we will replace the underscore with the dashes which is the proper way to name um Target attributes uh so right after we can update Target after accordingly but that's just about naming and I believe the mic shedding will continue because especially about those Target attributes we found out maybe they are too long already and we can try to compress it but at the same time they would benefit to have a prefix uh that clearly points to to edoc yeah so probably the discussion will involve both documents but um it will come and I guess most likely during the working group Last Call on on the Oscar Adam document already yeah so um one check that I don't think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "we actually made um but I think that that should be uh no-brainer is is doing this within our Charter and uh well I think it's it's essentially maintenance for 66.90 and the following follow-on documents now that 82 88 has essentially asked us to do this so I think it's in the charter but I I didn't check that I agree by the way good if we're not not hearing disagreement from somebody else then I'm fine yeah another um aspect that Ari raised um in his support for adoption was um about how much uh the registered attributes here should have a general or specific connotation and those coming from the Oscar the document are definitely specific on edoc but there are other ones like those coming from Old School discovery that well we imagine them as generic in fact because they can be used with with the same fundamental meaning but in different contexts that uh then the original Oscar groups document defines so that's probably something also to discuss with Ari for one and with the group at some point right we will have a hard time actually um classifying things as generic or specific because of course that's the Spectrum so what people of course could always be doing is use the target attribute in a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "way that that really was not anticipated by by the original registration so kind of abusing the registration and uh yeah I don't know what we actually can do against that except of course not not allowing that to happen in one of our uh standards but if SEO eggs goes ahead and does this uh I think there's there's very little we can do about that that's probably unavoidable I'm thinking more of something like I don't know if Point squatting is the best expression here but just avoid registration of Steel attribute is that really mean the same thing but are just used in two different contexts um at least we shouldn't do that intentionally or of course yeah we also need to make sure that people aren't using the same name for two different meanings right totally okay but yeah sorry go ahead yeah I'm just not sure we can do much in in this document about that okay yeah yeah Ari was referring specifically on some entries that we were proposing already uh so at least we can start uh I don't know what to do with those and so at some point we can just give guidelines okay um so the next step is really about going through any suspect documents that can have any Target attribute somewhere to the best of our knowledge yeah but there is no penalty for not being uh complete here so there's there's a rule of diminishing returns here okay I wonder if you can automate this amount like download all rxcs and runs account script to try to extract"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "[Music] Target attributes yeah that might require a natural language processing because yeah and let's say some of course with not 100 accuracy but some kind of basic attempt you know okay um any more comment on this then otherwise looks pretty clear how to proceed so how much time do we give ourselves for this if it's quick enough I wonder if we can wrap this up in the first quarter of next year right one or two revision uh yeah I have a pretty empty space under my Christmas tree this year so I was thinking about whether we can do this even faster because I mean it's essentially a no-brainer but uh yeah things do do come up but unless something really complicated comes up um why wait for next year I'm sure the faster the weather I was being conservative I think the the fact that we we can be faster than the the other documents means that we also have less let's drag let's again finish this one faster so uh yeah going for working with our score this year um sounds doable to me that's right might not end this year but that sounds good"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:06",
    "text": "hi you agree with Kirsten that um and also I think tag on to the other discussion that this document really can't encode a lot of policy we have to deal with that in other ways but we with this document we only need to make sure that it's correct you know in terms of being able to register and maintain registrations and maybe having some some sort of good templates and we have a lot to go to go on the existing Ayana registration has been you know works the way Karsten says it works that we can control how how our documents look but we can't we can only infiltrate other orgs and and sort of try to make them follow best practice we were moderately successful with OCS um not so much with Sigby but you know but we'll see but I agree mostly that that this document can be wrapped up pretty quickly because we only need to say how things are registered right thanks any more comments on target attributes are known and thanks again for bringing in this upcasting foreign [Music] next is href I think we have a new PR even now yeah so we in the meeting we said that this is all just a small bit of editorial work except that these are the ones that are really splitting the brains um and um so I tried generating a pull request for for the first uh one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "open uh issues and one thing I don't know can you can someone bring it up I'm I'm always a bit slow doing that with my laptop yeah you mean just a link just the pull request the files changed part sure I can try to share my screen ah okay one second I wasn't ready for exactly that but also me yeah so the the first thing that that uh really asked me when when working on this is that the names we currently have for for no slash and reading slash um of course do not work um so we we uh probably should be inventing new names here and this is what I tried I don't know if you can see that can you maybe increase the font size a couple of steps better yeah one more the zooming is so slow okay very nice thank you um it's interesting that you you for some reason do not get the side by side view which is exactly what you want in a conference um so um yeah this this is the first change which is just motivated by the fact that we we are noting that the leading slash case may not have a leading slash so it's a bit of a misnomer um and and the leading slash case may have no slash uh so um they should not be called No slash and cleaning slash so I changed that into root based and rootless um and I also changed the the text that introduces uh this problem to use root based and rootless now the problem with that is that we already have rooted and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "unrooted for relative paths so maybe we have to do another go at this uh but I think for now this is less confusing than than what we have so far So based on that um line 180 essentially introduces the requirement that we said we were going to introduce so a rootless path requires at least one path component so you cannot have a rootless path without the path component because you could not distinguish it in the URI from a root based uh UI so that that's essentially the the part that does the work and then further down there are a few additional things that needed to be changed to make sure that things are properly explained so in the constraints part this is set again and that's where the actual example lives so see our eyes without Authority that are rootless and do not have a path component and I mean this this really shows how how weird this case is um these cannot be supported the constraints say you shouldn't have them or you cannot have them because this would be indistinguishable from its root based equivalent as both would have the UI a colon so I think that captures all we we have discussed it doesn't capture the the reason for going with this variant and not with the alternative variant which would be to rule out root based"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "your eyes that don't have at least one path component so it's it's kind of symmetric but I think we we arrived at saying we want to rule out the a true case and not the anal case so that's the PM uh it was good to me I don't know if you requested a review of anyone like Thomas and Christian you usually did if I don't get any updates or even if I get any updates from today then then that will be the next step at a quick glance it was good to me good okay do you plan another pull request for the other outstanding issues yes I essentially just ran out of time so I I still have a couple of issues I mean there aren't that many issues lifted on about test vectors um so um yeah I I hope I can get to this I was planning to have lots of time today to do this uh yeah the user things happened because I think exactly success for the test vectors we had an idea on how to progress all the issues including this one with the pr now so it should really be just about adding the necessary text yes okay but it's amazing how how much this turns into a brain twister because well I tried this and and I couldn't get by the the existing names no slash and and reading slash and so I had to fix that one first before I could write the text for the other one which is now trivial but uh it's amazing how complicated this this can become so for the test vectors you still wanted to have some well sort of interoping"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "comparison with Thomas at least right right okay uh are you also aiming for a Christmas tree or yes well at least have a draft that is functionally complete whether we then decide to do the Working World let's call this year or not I don't know uh but uh we should be able to to get functionally complete okay I'm taking notes separately by the way I'll let them to the official notes I cannot just do everything simultaneously um okay uh and then we had the the wiki for collecting the the negative integers is there anything obvious other than the usual suspects that were added right away can can you show the wiki so everybody absolutely knows what's in there I'm not with my usual setup oh I'm sorry it's okay adaptation Spirit there we are yeah so this this is uh trying to collect the your eye schemes that we want to allocate numbers for and um what is https and http yeah someone added there recently and aren't they also Usual Suspects with their numbers already defined in the cddl definition of Cris yeah they are so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "maybe it would be a good idea to actually end the existing list to the wiki so people know this is already covered right right then there was a proposal to yeah simply extend that list already with the co-op and Corpus Plus um other schemes just to treat them as Usual Suspects just as well and that would be a first minimal expected list beyond that it was about really going through the list of existing registered um schemes and pick up uh those that really make sense and well I'll allocate them to the most convenient bucket yeah the problem we have here is that there are several ones that you are quite likely to use that aren't in the permanent registry at the moment and these all of course should be permanent uh it's permanently registered schemes so mqtt for instance uh we would want that in there but uh um yeah that might actually be a reason to actually decouple this from the URI scheme registry and essentially registering the UI schemes as strings um so we can register mqtt without pain yeah your original idea for the registration policy was also well there are two chances to to register these integers either in this href document or uh when registering the URI scheme after that no more opportunity I mean isn't that too strict if you if you have also to juggle with with this non-permanent registration yeah this policy essentially ignores the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "the fact that there are a provisional registrations and of course it becomes less effective in the presence of provisional registration so the whole point is to make it less likely to get stuck on on having to use the string even though we do have a number and we should possibly further adapt the policy to optimize uh achieving that objective right uh just saying let's have a policy not stricter than really needed yeah I'm afraid okay we could give the the designated expert uh the Liberty uh to register something but of course not protecting the designated expert by strong rules makes life much harder for the designated experts so we have to balance the yeah benefits and the perception that that whatever you do it always can be fixed by coaxing the designated expert but do you lean towards having a provisional registration good enough to consider well again we are just giving a string a number um so having a number for a string that is not actually in use just uses up the number of space hmm so it's not it's not a disaster so if we want to put in mqtt do they today because you know people are using this I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "think we should be in a position to do that okay right so uh can you give at least the first pass to this week yeah I think what seems to be missing actually at the moment from from ahref already and thinking of the core Plus scheme and well mqtt at least we have a minimal set really then we can extend yeah I suddenly can do that I would wish that other people look at this as well sure yeah the trivial thing by the way is extending the minimum list in the cddl definition of CRI then well that's a starting point for for this weekend for the early registrations right okay uh right so still a few things on href but I think we are converging really yes okay great I can stop sharing here any more comments questions anyone on href I heard known uh then we had the rata resolution and yeah I started to to have a look at that uh Francesca and chatting the other day uh with Carson also about those um at least I formed an opinion uh I can tell you what I think so sure okay uh there are there are 10 in totals and um well on seven of them I just agree without comments I I mean just agree"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "with Francesco's proposal um on the first one it's for 8.95 from Esco and I should probably share my screen again second right on this one yeah Francesca's proposal is to hold for an update I was wondering if we can validate and approve it actually because um it's editorial and it has a clear text to replace the original one so yeah I was wondering why why you hold for an update and not approved yeah I think one of the problems with this Russia report is that it actually has an implication on the Ayana registry and I I have since done about half a dozen documents uh in various uh perspectives um that had additions to that registry and and each time the RFC editor throughout the corrected text and and reverted to the um incorrect which is uh I mean it's consistent so the the there is a certain advantage to that uh but it's also a little retiring if you do this uh RC after RC uh so um if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "we can find a way to resolve this in in such a way that that uh future rfcs can use the right column headings uh that would be great but I I have no idea uh what other writer reports we have had that that ultimately led to changes in the registries foreign yes so basically when someone else is talking I cannot unmute myself oh but um yes basically what Kirsten said um this seemed to me more like it would require more work and so that's why I put all four document update especially if it does changes to Ayanna um those can be done with another document rather than with an Errata I'm not really sure how an Errata would be like if it could be processed by Ayana you don't have an experience of that it would be interesting to to get a precedence where somebody has has done this already um but I I'm not aware of any done in a different document yeah we have one more Errata that actually wrote a report that actually points to the corrections and clarification documents I actually should point to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "that it doesn't currently do that um so uh maybe this points out the the need almost 10 years after this RFC was approved uh to actually go ahead and have a small document that Updates this in in various places yes so the the the answer to one of the router reports further down in the list is actually that this is extensively discussed in the airwig co-op document uh which which is in limbo and probably will not be published the way it is but we could take text out of that Arabic document and put it into the corrections and clarifications uh document and and address this router report which cannot be handled as a Naruto report because it really requires uh extensive discussion and and cannot just change the intention here okay thanks for the background yeah I understand them better to hold and core class sounds like a good venue okay so there was one um on another one I had um just comment should be for nine four eight yeah this was interesting uh I double checked I I think this is correct uh so I think you should be approved and uh I agree with Francesca I I believe it's not fine to just go for that notation with dots and probably a lot of text has to be uh repeated unfortunately the test to add or changes uh interspersed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:05",
    "text": "but I don't know uh maybe they are still eternals better to add that text before I verify it okay yeah if it was possible to use the notational uh of the rather economic YouTube it would be great I'm just afraid uh it's not possible yeah but essentially oh It's Tricky it's adding a bullet point in between without changing the other ones and then uh yeah extending a paragraph It's really tricky yeah but I think the more important thing is that we actually verify this thing and uh um the question that really is how will the the with Errata version of of the RFC look like um in the end we want to make this as useful as possible and that's maybe something we can clarify with the RPC is someone taking that uh action point to check I can do that things okay and yeah then I heard one a third one yeah just to answer to Francesca question that was for nine"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "five four um yeah hold for the update or verified uh I know this is stricken involves Ayanna too but uh if possible why not verified he probably boils down to the previous discussion again oh this is the one I was thinking I was I wasn't sure to be following very well before I wasn't seeing many Ayan implications like there are here of course do you want to get back to the first one just trying to find out what what wait I can open it 48.95 so we started with this one okay in in fact I wasn't 100 sure how this could involve Ayanna but yeah this is really the one I I commented on I got the numbers wrong I'm sorry um yeah so um this is the one that uh asked me each time I add something to this registry um so I'm not sure what the other one was foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "then back to um the latest one yeah here I I do see clearly applications for Rihanna and I I wonder also the side effects on all documents that maybe also use the wrong column name themselves all right yeah we we can fix all the these other documents with the same update yeah that sounds good with the same update yeah so if we do it Corrections clarifications document uh that fixes this in 7252 then you can post it in the other one right sorry Francesca I think you wanted to say something no no first one um 40 and 95 yes and I was looking Aces okay so this is the editorial and that's maybe why I I just uh marked um holds for document update yeah that's definitely a clarification so the the document already says that in another place um and um that would be something we could also do in the corrections and clarifications document by the way"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "okay so uh back again to um to that last one yeah so you were saying core Clark can fix uh 70 52 about this first but then also documents that that followed the wrong naming and that should be all documents that register the content format yeah I'm not sure that uh snapping and updates flag on all these documents is really the right thing to do um I'm I'm thinking at least it should be easy to track those documents because they are mentioned in the registry right yes so at least that just grip for encoding and Co-op and you find all of them okay yeah uh I wonder if that can also be done silently by corclair avoiding to open an Errata for each of those documents well it's not in the router it's an update yeah yeah if we take that way right yeah good um yeah that that was that was all about my comments on the other seven ones I I checked them I basically agree with what Francesca proposes and and the reason why but um quickly comment on five four two nine uh which is talking about message IDs and um that is something that also would be addressed by Corrections and clarifications that's where where we have a page or two of text in the Eric document that we would copy over um and uh so this indeed should be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "rejected because it's not doing what what we set out to do but the note for that really should point to to that discussion as well so core Cloud will provide the description of the rational yeah I mean you can point to the Arabic document now or to an updated call class once we have that okay and could you reply to this thread with a pointer to the elite document or like if you have more precisely yeah we do thank you yeah that was all from my point of view and again the original plan was to bring this for the next intern that we can do uh in case anyone has more to say otherwise the proposal looked good no worries um anything else you wanted to add also captain or anyone on the errata no I think the the rest is as proposed like they're very proposed by Francesca cool so let's say for confirming this resolution plan in two weeks um about core clerkerson I think there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "also a Wiki uh in the repo for that document where Christian I and other people when we noticed something worthwhile in that space we just added an entry so maybe we can have entries also for uh yeah points related to those two erratas to be fixed in core car just to yeah keep three and keep keeping track of that very good somehow that we ended up uh use those for that okay uh which brings us to the end of the agenda uh is there any other business for today about core no and in two weeks again the idea was to cover well the Arata hopefully for a final resolution and uh corsid yes and anything else that can come up in the meanwhile okay uh then I think we can conclude the meeting earlier than usual talk to you later in two weeks thank you thank you bye"
  }
]
