[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:17",
    "text": "There is another note well this time which is similar to what we had last time in a different way is just we are here for technical reason, technical discussion, so respect each one another. Okay? Remember, the blue sheets are now virtual. So if you are here, you should log in in the Mittigo client using the local client Okay? If you are remote, you use the full fledged clients so that you have a video and everything that you need."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "usual pointers. So to the charter, Zuripurum audio stream medical, you should be online already. and there is the link for the the materials of this session. Okay? I forgot to introduce myself. Sorry. I'm Luigi. Here is pigma. We have the culture. over there is Alberto Secretary will help in taking the minutes to to be published after this session. so I'm polite. Sorry. So are small update a little bit on the situation about the the different adoptments small progress this time. We we have pops up that is Almost Stone. Really, Almost Stone. We are waiting for Albert to give a last message. So and then we will be published this in the out for the 48 period. This is not 48 hours is actually 2 weeks at least. But anyway, we are very, very close by. Okay? we have the list name encoding Alberta was so kind to take over the to be sheffled. So will do the work right after this this meeting. The young model was close to to working with Plascol, the ATLAS did ask for a last call on the mailing list. last week, basically. Met sent a few comments. So Albert will Alberto, sorry. will take a few minutes after Dinos presentation in order to make a point on this document. Okay? and dies. think I'm through with the updates."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "as for the agenda, so we have first Rakesh, talking about side external connectivity for this. okay. then Dino, Will it talk about something, it changes title every time he sends slide out we will see. And as I said, Alberto will take 5 minutes on the young model. and then we will go on their adjusterings. So we were working on the new chapters, so we will share it with you at my will present the main points of this new couples charter that we will also share on the mail release following the the usual procedure. Okay? any comment, No. think. So we can move to the first presentation. So Takesh, I will share the slide is fine. Actually, control the slides. Yeah. Hello. Can you guys hear me? No. 0. Hello. That's better. cut Talk."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:02",
    "text": "Hello, everyone. I'm Prakash Jen from Cisco. Presenting here today update on the list external connect list site external connectivity draft. which we presented first time in the IETF 115 London. I'm putting the update on on that today. With me, my coauthors are Sanjay Houda, who is here today? Thanks, Sanjay. and Victor Moreno, be probably joining remote No. not here in the conference through. So With that, What change between the previous version and the next the current version? we address all the review comments which was provided during the meeting well as on the mailing list and all the discussion. Thanks, but mine did not know. And the main addition during all the update was the pops up, was not present earlier, and now we have added into the draft. So What I'll be presenting today is woah. Woah. Woah. the major update what we did from the from the previous time we presented Miss, as you know, the draft provides the the dynamic external connectivity of the of the left side, especially for the destination which are unknown, not known to the site, as well as the the destination which are known but not registered yet to the to the mappings. system. And the doc provides all the mechanism of the register request notify as well as the the rep map reply. what we added additionally was the subscript"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "subscribe mechanism and the publishing mechanism. Also, there was a the there's an a section which we added to how to install or update the map caches with the PTR. or with the proxy t r. for the registration process and I'll be mostly telling now the update from the previous version, but if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if If there's any question, please let me know. We we can handle we have a thin pin minutes of the time to to give it to Registration mechanism, there is no change. I such, whatever we presented last time, it's the same. Duck the request for the proxy TR. Request for the PTR where we added the the subscription mechanism. as part of the map request, the n bit will will be set. And what that Based on that, map server will update to all the requesting ITR using the the publication mechanism, And as such, there is no all the mechanism of the list list legacy list messages and the the publication subscription not major change. We didn't change anything as part of this disdraft. majority of the things are how to use the existing mechanism to provide this dynamic external connectivity mechanism. So once the end bit will be set in the in in in the map map request, the any changes on the on the PETR or in the proxyTR, will be updated to all the all this ITR who has subscribed for that automatically."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "And Yeah. And for for that, map notify will be used as as usual, the the pops up as per the pop subgraph. Rest of the things are exactly same. PTR resolution also same, but this is now only applicable when there is no pops up mechanism of label. at that time, if there's a that that's a request, the the map reply procedure will be followed as we explained last time. Now this is the this is the section which we added. there was a a question in the comment last time that will every packet will go to now to the proxy ETR And the a without generating the map request. answer is no. because the way the draft draft specify or draft to suggest the mechanism the known all the known EID blocks or the known EID range should be programmed at the to generate the map request. So all the map caches, the whole map caches or the default map caches, will be less specific then those those more specific known EID range. So that way, it will make sure that all the all the known EID will generate a mapping request But only when there's a whole entry installed in the map cache, Or if it's not installed, then the IPR can decide to install the whole prefix as per the known negative map reply pros procedures,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:03",
    "text": "or the IPR can choose to put a default a a map cache, like 0 0 /0baptash. which the ETR in it. based on the map notify or the map reply process. specified in the craft. The last time we we suggested this this use case for the default PTR like, in in the whenever the packet needs to go to a default proxyTR, this mechanism can be used where the default proxyTR can be dynamically updated based on the different condition at the proxy here. So Everything is same. A map request now can also be a a a subscribe request at the ITR so that when there's any any change in the default proxy tier, that will automatically will be updated at the might be up. without any map request response steps in between and, similarly, when the instead of a map reply, map notify can be used to publish that p t r box c t r changes. So these So, again, like, major changes here are the the pops up mechanism. rest everything is same as the we specified last time in the Right. So with that, I think these are the major update. I'm open to any questions or anything you might have if something is not clear or anything we could not resolve on the a mailing list. And next step, obviously, we would like to have the working group adopt But it looks like last time we saw the enough interest and nothing there. So Okay. That's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "thing is question or comments. Just Joel Halperan area. and I just went and looked at the draft to try to figure one thing out. You're using the list distinguished name thing. One of the things I went to some trouble about in the list distinguished name was to say, Each usage has to say how their name is distinguished from the other use cases so that you don't end up with name collisions. I couldn't find anything in the draft on that. Have you addressed it yet, or is that an open I So what we specify in the draft that that distinguished name could be agreed upon in in the in in the fabric, or if it is good. I think you'll need to write a little more. No. We'll create the new help. Okay. This is Dina. So you could just say we're going to distinguish the distinguished name by the mechanism specified. in the name and coding. And what that is is you pre rather than agree on the name, which can conflict with other use cases. You agree on the instance ID of the VPN, and then you you just always look up and register default PTR in the that VPN So thank you. Some yeah. I feel like I'm -- Yeah. We a bigger reference still at the lab. and set Reference is already there, but we'll add the the statement. to the Sure. Thanks. Thanks a lot. Don't forget to push on the medical local client when you chew up Yeah. don't don't forget to push on the Mitigo client when you chew up the the normal procedure we should use. Just a reminder."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Any others? comments or question, No. In this case, since they are asking the autos are as team for working group adoption, I will send out a a session so that you can arise your hand on or not. whether you want this document to be adopted. Should start. now. So use the medical client in order to reply Wishai anonymous. Okay. This is anyway a small group. I would say that looks positive. Let me for fairness, make the the conference call if anybody is against this adoption. Just a Here it again."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "So you show it against. raise your hand. is anonymous. We will ask you for the reason on the mailing list. process process process usual procedure. is the negative split. that. Everybody should read it. This is not the same one, but We did film respect. Ah, I just noticed I put not in capital letters in my when I drew it. But then it's Okay. If somebody's cookie reading, he's thinking I didn't know this before. Anyway, nothing is moving. So seems there there there is more of a consensus on adopting this document we will take it to the mailing list anyway. This is the normal procedure, and we'll open a a call for adoption on the k? Thank you. Thanks a lot. Thank you. Thanks too. Now Denimem. is now up to you. or you show this line? Okay. Control. Yeah. 6, Test test. Can you hear me? Hi. I'm going to on behalf of The other three people that were involved in this testing effort, give you a demonstration of 3 technologies that we combined into 1. k. So what we did is we wrote a multicast application called GapChat. And GAAP is a group allocation at group address allocation protocol we're working on in the PIM working group. And so we wanted this multicast application to work over the wide area network. And since we don't have multicast everywhere,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "we wanted to be able to make it work over the list overlay. And the links that we're using are residential links, satellite links, all behind that devices. So we wanted to show all that technology. working here. So with this gap, we wanted to build a decentralized multicast group allocation protocol. So there's no central entity that allocates group addresses. It happens by all the participants that are running a multicast application. The group addresses are allocated in guaranteed to be unique across all the Gap speakers. and GAAP nodes have no configuration whatsoever. And the way it was implemented is I built an implementation where the GAAP protocol runs in a library inside the application. The design goals was for the protocol to allocate V4 and V6 group addresses, multicast group addresses, group addresses. we wanted the group addresses to be allocated so they wouldn't collide in layer 2, IGMP or MLDB snooping switches. So we made sure that the 23 you 23 bits were unique for ipv4 multicast. can work on a single subnet, of course, in a layer 2 network, or it can work over a layer 3 infrastructure, including overlays with multicast visit. where you need it. and it can coexist with other group allocation protocols just because we're gonna go to Ayanna and allocate a a gap allocation block. And when multicast is not available, We're gonna use multicast overlays to realize multicast to the application, and that's kind of the center of this So if we go back to the first slide, basically this presentation is showing you about GAAP, but, of course, all the various RFCs that we've done in less. 8370 8 is the signal free multicast, which is head end replication. and then it uses all the other machinery that we've built over the years with lusp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:04",
    "text": "Okay. Just to create a quick a quick tutorial on how it works. multicast source and receiver notes participating in the GAAP protocol. there's an application specific group name that they all rendezvous on. and that maps to a group address. we basically take a hash of the group address, and then it's advertised in a claim message to make sure that no other group name has to the same address. And when there is a collision, we resolve the collision. according to the spec It's it's as it's as simple as that. So like I said, the way I implemented it, I did a Python implementation. I built a echo sender and echo receiver test app where it imported the GAAP library so we can send the the ES basically sends this message message on the command line to the group name to all the receivers that are listening to it. we also built a gap monitoring tool called gap shark to listen to the messages for debugging and various other ancillary things But what's important is that for this demonstration, we built this thing called gap chat. And it's just basically a text based multicast applications that uses the group addresses that are allocated by the gap protocol. So every each user brings up gap chat with this group name, and they can send and receive in multi casted to everybody. that's participating of course, the demo we're gonna do is gonna show you how Snapchat works over the lisp overlay. So we're using mechanisms from 8378, of course. And with the all the devices are have to go through nets and my lispers.netimplementation implements what's reported in this drafted Okay. The way the demo is set up is we"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "On top, we have 2 VMs that are in AWS. They're on a terrestrial link. And then we have Dan Mini, which is a Mac mini that's sitting at Dan's house on a terrestrial link through a residential service. And then my MacBook when it was at home. It's sitting there now. But when it was at home, it was behind a STARLINK interface, and so is Mike's Mac as well. So we're gonna show that all 5 of those guys are gonna join the same group and and chit chat back and forth using Gap Chat with the name Dino Group. Okay. Now we're going to show you the demo. within the do a switch. screening, Like to give you a demo of the GAAP protocol over a list overlay. Basically, we're gonna show 3 technologies here. we're gonna show GAAP the group address allocation protocol that allocates group addresses to the applications, multicast applications dynamically. We're going to provide a multicast service using the list overlay. And we're gonna show that the list parts of the list overlay can run over satellite network. We're gonna show 5 minutes in this demo. We're gonna show dino MacBook and RightMac. is going to be on the satellite link. we're going to have Dan winning be on a residential to rest your long line, and we're gonna have 2 VMs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "in Amazon called XTR1 and XTR2. that are gonna participate in the demo. So we come over to these sets of windows. We have Dino knack book here up, and we left it the left hand corner, And we have Mike's MacBook here. These two of the satellite guys and we have Dan's mini right here. They're already joined to the group using web chat. GAAP chat is basically the multicast application. that uses the GAAP API to allocate addresses. when you start the application with a a group name, it will passion to a group address that's being used, and we'll show you that in more detail in a second. Okay. So the idea here was we have all 3 that are are part of the group that already joined. And if we look at the RTR, We see The MAT cache in the list RTR has the 3 members Dima MacBook. 10, Ronnie. and make make make make make make It turns out that the most The group named Dino Group will hash into 224-94040. 236. And all of these nodes are also running The gap protocol that runs on the Square Main Group 2240171 70. k? The idea of the application is that it just broadcasts or sends messages to one another over the multicast group. So if we send this hello, we see that the other two notes got it. The EID for DNO MAC Group is 24111. It was sent to the 236 agreement, and we see that Mike's MacBook received it. So this was sent over the satellite network to the RTI that's deployed in Amazon and it replicated a to replicate the multicast packet to make over the satellite and to Dan note that the group and the source are the same."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "Okay. Now what we're gonna do is we're gonna join We're gonna have these other 2 guys join from XTR 1. next tier 2, which are 2 VMs. So starting up the chat group, we're gonna start this guy up we're gonna show that that general latency is is pretty fast. So if we then again, look at the ATR We will see that AXTL1 is now joined to the to the group. we have now 4 members that are running. And let's say he just sends Hello. I am axtrone. as training, and everybody should get that message. Okay. and we see that Dan got it. We see that Mike got it, and we see that Dino got it. Okay? Let's just turn one more Okay? And let's say, hello. just got here axtr2 and you can see that David added Mike Abbott, and Dylan got it. And let's look at the other DM. And the other VM also Got it. And if we just look at the state again, in the RTR, we'll just see now that we have 5 group mail numbers. 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. Okay? Now what we implemented was a pain protocol in the application. So if one of these guys sends a pain, It'll just show that everybody has has received the PIN And then we are going to reply to the table with a polling message And the power message is gonna be multicast back to the group. let's try that from Dino and MacBook. Okay. So what happened here was we did the ping And the dealer network sent the payout to the 236 group associated with Dinesh Group. And this was the sequence number for the pain."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "And what dealer got back was from a XTR 2 the AWS VM, got a palm from it, got a palm from XTR 1, got a pond for Mike. and one from Daniel. Now since these poems were Multicast, did we see that all the other nodes have received the part 2 and are displaying it. Okay? So, basically, we're providing a multicast service here with the list overlay. and that's allowing anybody to connect anywhere on the Internet where they have connections to the Internet underlay and it could be satellite, it could be terrestrial. And the law behind that devices. So the metroversal logic is being used here as well. Thank you for watching. So that Is it? anymore slides. You know, the slides Just shows up. questions, Yeah. question or comments? this this Hi. I'm Altona from I'm kind of new. trying to understand the real life applications of this protocol and how we can avoid slooding. which could be a potential issue. Yeah. So if there was if those five nodes let's say that the two VMs on top was gonna join some other group they they would only get because of definition of IP multicast is whoever joins are the only ones who get it. those two VMs would get messages just for that group. and as well as the group the Dino group that all five are doing it. So it's it's not flooding it. It's if you explicitly request a multicast stream or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "piece of data, you'll get it. And when you're done, you leave and it gets pruned off the the tree and the mapping system. If you're running native multicast, there's a multicast distribution tree that gets pruned, so packets don't have to go to that end. this is an overlay where there's a head end replication being sent to wherever it has to be. When those guys leave, I didn't show it in the demo, but if those guys lead. They're removed from the mapping system, so subsequent packets don't go to the guys who have left, Okay. Can you follow-up question? Can you just repeat when it gets terminated when the group sees this pre exist when the last person exists or there's a timer at when one can reconnect. Great question. So if can we go to the diagram? just a couple Okay. So with When these guys are running that gap chat application, once you exit the application, it causes an IGMP leave to be done. That message basically goes to the list XTR that's collocated with the application that tells the mapping system to remove me from the mapping Soon as that happens, that node doesn't get data any longer. Okay. Okay. And you know my question? blump. Thank you, Neil. Alberto, you have 5 minutes on the young model. This is Alberto from Cisco. I don't have slides or anything. So this is just to comment on the email that Matt sent to the list. good as what you said. Right? We ask for working group as call for Liz Young. The other one has been stable for several years. We did A lot of back and forth when the main RFCs were being standardized. I'm going to send a stack. and it's aligned with the latest specs on the on the NFC is 93xx as as soon as I put it on the slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:03",
    "text": "But Matt raises a few points. I was asking him before he will be around it, but he got somewhere left. So he got fully And I want to get the opinion of the working group. You can 3 hour then go to the list. 2 things. One is well, he was suggesting in terms of having Ayanna monthhein, model for the several identifiers that we use those right now are discussed and described on the on the IETF, on the on the list junk document, And the other one, and maybe this is for you, you know, on the and your coordinates. So it seems that there is some Junk's verification for your coordinates? I'm not very aware of How that works or if that applies? But Matt was asking if that's something that we can reuse. the recordings group, and I think it's the term. You can you can check the email on the list. on what he was pointing to. and see if that makes sense for the geocotonates, that we use on list. Yes. Yes. So just to to raise awareness on those comments if you have anything to say. Send the coin to the list. or other approval No. No. use our best judgment to others those comments. Green. Yes. Actually, I'm in. supposed to contact a young doctor. Okay. Exactly. That was my Follow-up. If if we can get -- I mean, we we we can contact 1 on 1, so do to get help and and where I find the the document, That's perfect. Yeah. And then we do the the last call on the mailing list. You take care of that. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, if we can get the help from 1 year doctor to -- Sure. Look at this. Small details? Makes sense to me. It will be fantastic. In terms of protocol specification, I think the I think the we are what what But, you know, young,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "details. We don't list details escape me. So We're good to have help. that's what we can do. I contact young doctor. And then will refine the document, and then we we start the last call on the main once we have them. Okay. and and, Dina, I just want you to comment on the geo coordinates. Alright. Right? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. A few few days ago, just release junk on the mailing list. Yeah. Yeah. slides. Hey, everyone. So We're just going to present what we discussed over in Japan about Richard Ring. So last time, we went over all the documents as So wants that we want to retain and which ones we want to add or move to the standards. So what we're doing today is that we're going to actually show you the charter. So the first the first slide we're going to get always pretty much the standard of explaining what the working group is about. I don't want to spend too much time on that slide, so I will let you actually review that when we send it working group alias. I'd like to keep a little bit more time about discussing the working group work items, and and I'll give you So we have added here the net transversal because there was a lot of interest on that. Do you know that Dell. Aberkeley address to discuss that is very close to delivery, and the multicast support where there's free documents that we would like to merge. So I'd like to hear a little bit from folks here whether they have Any comments on this?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "any objections on the You guys are up today. on their natural resources documents these This is Dina. So the lispers.net, nat traversal document was once a specification, but it was turned into a report of the implementation. Mhmm. So going back and forth with Elliott the ISE it was decided that we're not gonna make it informational. because his his board didn't like something about it. So Okay. Did What what would be? you guys know that? Nothing. It right. Yes. Exactly. It's nothing. So So it's not it's not gonna be published under any IETF content. Okay. But we we also had the Venus documents. Yeah. And that should be considered as the working group document. Right? Exactly. Yeah. So the A long time ago, we we we committed to have another traversal solution which makes sense, totally sense, to be honest. So the idea is to continue that work or restart that work. on the base that Yeah. I don't know exactly when to comment, so I will do it now. So if this is just a list of working group items for the proposed charter. Or -- Yeah. Yeah. discuss it briefly with with you on the call that before, but something that is missing here is reliable transport."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "So something that needs to go into the new chart that I'm making this this this this this coming for the group a lot. after the discussion with copyright. Reable transfer is a document that has been sitting around for a long time. but it's one of the main documents that lease production networks are relying on. So it has seen a lot of deployment It's something that we need to, you know, finalize at the IETF. So that would be One of the top priorities for any new charter for lease because, you know, people is depending on on that to run their list networks. So, yeah, I guess that is fine to to add it to the list. and then I guess, as I told to you, it's not difficult to add text. I mean, to to accommodate the document. If you say this widely used by by your customers. So it makes sense to to have it somehow you have also to work on it and push it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I hope that the Yeah. All those can make a push for it. And, actually, that release 1 after I guess. But like, people at market and and ballajay and so on. My understanding is that they are looking to work on I don't I don't want to speak for them, of course. Right? So, hopefully, yeah, we can get some progress done on that document. So was going to say, let's look at all the items because that's just part of the items versus part 1. So we have items. So -- That's why we're asking if it is the right time to to return ours. -- answer your looking at your side. I just wanted to maybe let's let's let's let's maybe let's do this. Let's look at the two slides. this is the second part of all the documents, and I think that will address some It sends But So so Here we have all the standard correct documents that we were actually on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "we discussed last time that we were going to actually make them come Stenderstruck, The next one is mobility where we have a lot of documents in mobility. and actually this this mobile node, for example, there's all these doctors that have been you know, kind of stalled a little bit and maybe actually moved them. And then privacy and security where we have the idea and identity. We have tip. you know, different VPN segmentation stays a lot of I think we've got free graphs at least over there. And then the last one is their list efficability where I think that will actually address some of those graphs, graphs, graphs, talking about, you know, the customer, how do we use less and in what kind of out. Mickey. unusual scenarios that we didn't think of using less before with actually interesting ones. So These are actually concludes to old items. So wanted to know whether Before we go into the milestones, whether days any objections on those or is there anything that's missing We'll have more discussion on the working group list, but I just like to kind of poll here. Hi. I'm over at. Now let me read this again. I just have a question on the multicast on the last slide. basically, you're saying the current experimental documents need to be merged and republished. there any new work in multicast, or is the work just republishing into sitter track. And the reason I asked that is that if that's the only work in multicast and that's covered by this other bullet here, of moving stuff towards the standard track. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:03",
    "text": "But, I mean, if there's more work, great. If not, you know, I'm just saying that that way, the charter doesn't look so big. This is this is Dino. In terms of multicast work, there's no nothing new that was added to the protocols or architecture. all the documents are use cases. And, yeah, I'm assuming and I remember the oral header But I'm assuming that there is gonna be called out that list the the working group is is responsible for the maintenance of the protocol, etcetera. So if there's some new little thing that should happen that is not covered, That should be okay. So the only other comment that I have is in you guys know from when I was the idea that have some concern about the applicability documents. And the way I read this text, it sounds as if there's going to be a document. that updates 7215. Not necessarily several documents. that document how different list use cases may may be implemented Yeah. which I think that's what I understood you said. So all all I'm saying is clarify that. Right? If you're gonna produce many documents, it's better to say up front. many documents, Then to later hit someone in the ASG that says, oh, that is not the charter. something like that. and you will You are suggesting for please x, on the access will be one that's if that's the intent, yes. Because that's that's why we Oh, or that's what I read here. If the intent is to to potentially produce multiple documents, on how do I use list here and list there and list somewhere else. then be specific about that. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:04",
    "text": "since you brought that up, Alvaro, you I got confused. And so now that question I have, not from what you said. You just raised a point. do you want to standardize 7215, which means It's the applicability of list. But that time, it it was published, or do you want the latest applicability of lists? as of July 2023. 7215 is basically deployment consideration is informational, and and the document we produce will be, again, informational, but is on a use case that is pretty old and not Not the main use case anymore of lisp. So it makes totally sense to update with something that is recent and meaningful. the server to Francisco. Just to be clear on this discussion, here? Are we talking about a document that contains the information on on the, like, ground based list, next account draft and so on, or are we talking about something different. to me could be this as well. I mean Because if we want to have a single document that covers those particular use cases plus additional ones? have an angle with the Yeah. We don't need to document everything. not all the use cases. Maybe there was should decide that. small set of So keep if this is supposed to be a document that, you know, gives people ideas, different ideas on what they can do with list. That's fine. for those particular use cases, and we have discussed this in the past, where other recognition bodies. like a icon on the automotive association consortium. may use the you know, those particular details. I think that we should still have all the details. for those use cases. I think, in their own documents. Right?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:09",
    "text": "Thanks. So Jim Gisheard future way. at The list of applicability I'd wanna clarify that one a bit as well because I just looked to 72 in as an experimental RSA. So I'm assuming that this point means that you wanna officially standardize that RFC and then update it with new use cases. Is that correct? because if it is, we need to make that clearer. That that's my only comment. -- hard for that. one of the discussions that we were having earlier is that he's pretty up to lead from what it was supposed to be. So we should refresh it and actually do it out. One thing that I wanted to respond to Alvaro. Yes. We want one document. but but I think that as we go along, muscle rate, there's going to be supplemental document I I I I I'm kind of from you know, not sure exactly right now, I don't have a real strong opinion about one way or the other, but I do think that maybe in future that might be supplemental documents here over couple of years or something like that. Okay. Sorry. No. We're standing in person. Alvaro, again, Sure. So just Clarify it. it it I I I think I'm I'm with Alberto here on it would be nice to have a document that sort of gives ideas and and talk about deployment models, scenarios. I don't know what it is. versus having from the working group. A document that says, oh, this is how I use list. on data centers and list within"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "satellites and Lisbon airplanes and Lisbon cars, is all great. that list can be used in so many places. most of these documents don't actually contribute or they they don't they they contribute a lot. don't change list. Right? They tell you how to use it and okay. You have the XCR here, and you have the all the guy there, and you have etcetera. if that is what the working was gonna work on, Make sure you say that. So Per question? No. No. Let me just make comment. No no share set on, but I don't believe we need to have several documents because A lot of them will somehow overlap because the the principle to to to use this the same, then you have some declination, some some some differences on this there are specific to the use case. But if we have several documents, they this will overlap. So and will not e the counterargument of having One document can grow huge. Well, you can have Zillion saw small documents which adds up to the same thing. So to me, it's more important to have let's choose the model most important use cases and then define one document with the principles are a little bit how risk can be deployed. And then in different sections, we can for the details of the specific use case. This is our see this this work item. but but but might as an opinion. This is Dino. Maybe I can make a suggestion to solve the the problem that you brought up Luigi and to address both Alvaro and and I'll burst out. Why don't we make the applicability document say, List can do this. So it's what it can do. And then when you wanna know how it does it, then you point to all the other documents."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "other words, what what Liz can do was the list that he just uttered recent just, you know, this can work in data centers because it can do this. This can work in satellites because you can do this, how it does it, point to the existing documents. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is So so we don't have a multiple, the one problem. the document doesn't give you So we we are not going people that that that -- Yeah. Well, I think if you do that, I think there's no overlap either. Right. Yeah. only detail. I want to point out is What is the status or I wanna ask? What is the status of those other documents? 6 Are these other documents working group documents? We want to then call them out of the charter. Or are they other documents that -- They're splattered across the that maybe can be published through the ISC or somewhere. Right? Because We don't need working group consensus. to to reflect how an implementation was done for boats, right, or something. what about, like, something like VPNs that's so fundamental? than Correct. Maybe that yes. No. There's an item there for VPN somewhere. other ones in and out, so fundamental. should go Correct. Because, I mean, we don't need working with consensus to agree that List can be used on. self. I would like to caution about one thing though. We don't want document for every single small use case because we're going to have a proliferation of documents. What I really think is that don't know know, maybe we can come up with a wording which is better about, you know, the scope significantly changes or else it should refer to the the major document the main document should cover a number of cases and only their model once which are pretty not covered in the document should be new documents. I just want to make sure that we're not pointing to all kind of small use cases going there. precautions Cisco. I I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "I would like to say that we're okay with if if you wanna update the 70 to 15 and whatever the old use case with the new. However, on on the Point tagger raised I can tell you that we have almost more than 3000 deployment today. using using list And every day we are talking to the customer, there is a new use case is coming. So it won't be possible to update everything in one go. So I would agree that there we should keep the charter open for possibility of adding the new use cases or applicability That's okay. Actually, that's a quick queue because I will show the tentative milestones on that document where it is. It's way down the road. So that will give us long living document before it actually becomes standard. So we'll we'll go that next next 1000 bucks All I want is this -- We should keep it open to have the more and more applicability because it will come. based on our experience cell cell Thank you. Robert, Rashuk. Completely different topic. as this is the proposed charter discussion, I have a question. So so far from what I understand, list works on the underlay and it works pretty much on the best effort path. from x between XDRs. Is there any way anyone here in this working group thought about making optimal routing list. in in a sense that you actually not go from the source to destination that maybe hop through another transitTR, just to get better performance of the data path. That's the let but that's It's Saturday. cover, Okay. Then Fine. that. I mean, Sanjay Udan, coming back on the same topic. I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "From the learning from 3000 plus deployments, you found out that there are Less than 10. actually, the modules which actually plug all this in. to make this multiple use cases. I think from that perspective, It's probably best to describe those 10 building blocks. in the document that we as as this document actually evolves, those 10 actually building blocks can be said okay. like Lego Blocks, we can basically fit into basically set up the use cases and I can actually I'll talk to do you know what those 10 building blocks are? because those are very, very, I think, pretty unique. Some of the use cases which you could not really solved by any of the method, actually list filters. so Like, that's where it is. I think it should start from those to 10 building blocks and should go for So, Jim, just a couple of comments. first comment is we spent most of the time with the charter discussion talking about list applicability. which worries me greatly because I don't wanna see you know, from a working group perspective, it's the other stuff that seems to be important to be focusing our time on, and The only thing with this is to allow us in the charter to have the flexibility to to do this. So we just need to work on that word in a little bit. but Yeah. That's kind of the comment. Shouldn't be awesome. Yeah. I'd I'd I'd this shouldn't be front and center of the charter, basically, is what I'm saying. I I I don't want the ISG to think, oh, Lisp is just gonna do all the bunch of applicability documents, and we we need to make sure that's not what they're thinking. So Absolutely. Yep. Yep. Yep. Yep. So covering that, that's a great cue for the next slide, which is these plates, looking at the milestones."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "And as you will notice, the list of capabilities kind of pretty further down the road, will give us chance to actually accomplished the other graphs for to our higher priority right now. So I'll let you read this. Any comments? No. Number number I mean, Does that There will be an output from the Which document is I may propose the following way forward. We work a little bit on the applicability bullet so that it's clear that we have to revise the text. Okay? And then we share this on the meeting, please. should be anyway. And so you have time to read and and also look if the milestones are reasonable in time, etcetera, and all the feedback, and we will adjust accordingly. I mean, to me, it's the More reasonable next step. This is Dina. So the order of this, you guys made a judgment on the priority. just because of its completeness. Like, why isn't it less than a second? a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "the the the the the maturity of the existing document or what could be the documents and the priorities. the same time. Okay. Right. Okay. This to comment on something very similar. of some there are few so for instance, MET Elcapbis, item number 7, is that assuming the current list of aircrafts or assuming the new ones are gonna come No. There are 2 documents on the LCAP, basically. So we can put them together and and have one standard check. Because if that is the case, it's super straightforward. Right? It should be So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And there are few other things. Like, For instance, 6830 to this, I guess, is gonna be this as well. I don't know. I mean, I I'm as long as it is in the charter somewhere, I'm fine with the order, I guess. But, yeah, same question as, you know, why why this order and not tell them. Tell them. it's what we found as a possible order, but Okay. There are orders suggesting that that That suggestions. we should Just one comment, and Alvaro will correct me if I'm wrong. But I think from a from a charter perspective that these are milestones that you wanna achieve. But if you happen to achieve 1 before the other before that date, it actually doesn't matter. So just It's the consolidator usually. If we if we are late, we should rediscuss actually with you to update the milestones. Yep. Yep. This is Dino. So I have a question for November 2026. could re charter also mean the working group closes, and there's a lisp ops group that starts because it will solely be operational stuff that's done. And then it'll be easier to reflect your comments that you had over the last year or so. Yeah. Okay. So that could be one option. -- in okay. In 3 years."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "or close by. we we are overtime. So Last comment, if you wish, Albert, otherwise -- K. When when -- -- see you in Prague Yeah. 11 sentence. I think that The second item is not subversal. It's very optimistic. the the date is yeah. Okay. you very much for all all the feedback is already good input. and we will work on it and and share with all of you on the meeting, at least. you very much. I need to run the order side meeting. We will catch up Okay. Yeah."
  }
]
