[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:20",
    "text": "okay Mickey\u0027s hand is pointing to the top of the clock let\u0027s come on in guys okay so you\u0027ve all seen the note well right you memorized that can repeat it back to me good so the agenda this one yeah I came to the agenda a little bit to reflect what we did on Tuesday actually the last conversation that we had on Tuesday morning was about 1/2 the eyeballs and we had one more conversation that Jordy would like take out relating to half the eyeballs ideally they would have captain together they didn\u0027t huh you mean my voice isn\u0027t any okay so in any event so I\u0027m gonna put Jordy on first just to continue that conversation so it is uh who\u0027s on first Jordy no second I\u0027m just kidding so that\u0027s what or anyhow but okay so we\u0027ve got two hours we\u0027ve actually got five conversations and so I\u0027m gonna ask people to not take half an hour I think actually several of these are pretty short conversations and that will take care of itself but just be aware of time place so that\u0027s where we\u0027re at that\u0027s what we\u0027re doing is anybody have any last-minute agenda bashing they want to do well if we have time but there\u0027s a reason we have a draft cut off and like guys so Jory you may want okay let\u0027s go strained we have already the on Tuesday the the discussion on the on the update of happy eyeballs and one of the comments that I was doing in the list is the bad thing of happy egg rolls is that is hiding the the the problems that the operators may have in their networks okay the problem may be in in both sides in the destination or in or in the search network we know that so I was suggesting why not including in that in this update of happy eyeballs a way to to work to report that and while I was trying to figure out how to do that you know in a very very simple way my my view on this is it could be already part of the happy balls update document but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:23",
    "text": "understand that and I agree it\u0027s ready for for last call so probably we need to have it in a separate document so I decided to write write it down I did very very quickly so it\u0027s a very preliminary version but I think it\u0027s so simple that it may work I I just want to get the feedback I asked it in the mailing list I didn\u0027t get any any response I want to get the feedback if this is the right way or reducing it can be done in another way or we just do nothing about it so I was thinking what what protocol is common in the operators network to get this this feedback from the happy evils and I was looking at syslog most operators have some kind of syslog collector on their network so to make it simple because this lock can be used in different ways to make it simple I was saying okay the default way for sis locks is using UDP and the default port is five one four so just just get it fixed for four that way and the point is how to inform every horse that is running happy Abel\u0027s about what is the address of the collector and I was thinking okay why not doing the same way as nat64 is doing to to look for the network specific prefix okay so take advantage of that so we don\u0027t invent new protocols with just existing use existing things and that give us 96 bits but we need hundred 28 bits for for defining a house so I was thinking what address in Internet is free because we have not any usage of it so it will not conflict with anyone and it\u0027s the older 6to4 anycast prefix okay so with that we have a hundred twenty eight bits address or even a full 24 bits prefix for doing that in case you want to have several anycast collectors and well that\u0027s that\u0027s what I I did a set ISA is a short document is not having any new protocol just using existing things I think it\u0027s quite simple to implement because it\u0027s just having in the happy Abel\u0027s a reporting algorithm that is using just plain UDP nothing special I don\u0027t think you need to implement a full six lakh let\u0027s say protocol just just sending this this short packet and the good thing is that the operators might decide if they want to use it or not if they want to use it well they get information and they can take care of that or not that\u0027s that\u0027s again a decision of the operator but at least they they can keep track that that something is happening his network especially they get towards the same destination always failures okay so they can solve the problem if is in their network or they can inform the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:25",
    "text": "destinations that there is a problem on that on that part so what I am asking in the in the document is that the happy Abel\u0027s should just use the six lakh reporting algorithm and that\u0027s it the the idea again is that the operator should should take care of that there was question here is basically we want to do this reporting which both ipv4 and ipv6 at the moment in the document I am only doing the reporting which ap v6 so if the access link to the to the six log collector is broken which ipv6 it will not get the reporting one is the possibility to solve that is to send two messages but one would be four and one would say P be six so even the operator can correlate that and can solve one more problem which is having fails on his access network okay so that that can that can solve two problems instead of just one one of the comments I am Not sure it was in the Li story or it was in private I don\u0027t recall right now is about privacy issues okay in the actual document I am suggesting to send the source prefix and the destination address so yes there may be some correlation of data to know that this user is actually going to this destination but actually it was thinking about that and just sending the destination will be enough okay because sending the destination we already know that there is some problem going to there and the operator can do their own measurements to see if it\u0027s a general problem of his network and I think that will solve the privacy issues if we believe that that this this is really a privacy issue in the document of course I need to request a Jana to reserve that that prefix again for this document and while the question I mentioned before if we won or not to integrate with the with the happy Abel\u0027s update probably it depends on on if the people liked the idea and we move very fast then it may be done otherwise just keep it as two separate documents and I think that\u0027s that\u0027s it basically okay so I see Eric coming to the mic let me stick in before he gets there I think this draft actually is two separate things one them is like the happy eyeballs draft to issue it says long the other is let\u0027s define syslog and and you think that tops area yeah so I\u0027d really like if you want to continue this draft break it into two things and maybe one of them actually belongs in his draft if we decide that but the definition of syslog is not this working group don\u0027t well "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "that that\u0027s probably op serial but I am not actually defining six locker gang or anything like that were just got an I in a request for an address yeah okay but yes you\u0027re the collector joining syslog for the collector and that needs to go where verses thought goes okay okay because it\u0027s a general tool that anybody using syslog would use okay so you are suggesting that this this way of making a finding this is not can be used it for many other tools or any other sport actually we have an ops area ad unknown on the line maybe he can comment so warm up Syria eighty friended the fern annoy you all something glorious ad yeah we\u0027re both feeling squeamish about asking for a UDP port for syslog that probably belongs in the working group that owns this law courts or address a dress for my party is one and I don\u0027t care okay the thing is that we don\u0027t mind protocols I know our Charter says don\u0027t define somebody owns this law I don\u0027t yeah I don\u0027t view this as changing syslog or defining protocol I go that\u0027s asking for an address I\u0027m not sure if you\u0027re just a cab adding an address to it returning an address to it it\u0027s saying this is an address you might want to run syslog on it i we can fight we can have this fight later but I don\u0027t think that\u0027s changing syslog I think that\u0027s asking for a generic assignment of interests but however you want to phrase that it will be available and useful for other uses of syslog nice as well yeah yeah I agree I agree with that it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s useful other further yeah so here agreeing just wondering whether it\u0027s really the intention to send the syslog to the access provider I\u0027m not sure whether you will get incentive to fix the issue I think some issue with API bola on the remote side on the server side and then I would imagine something like oh I failed I need to fall back to ipv4 then I\u0027m sending an ex - API both they concurred on something into the HTTP header I I was thinking on that and the reason I believe it should be sent to the access provider is because if we send to the destination it may be just a hosted web service and nobody\u0027s going to take care of that you understand what I mean why leave is the access provider and he see the same problem from different customers he probably has some interest in contacting the the hosting center or whatever if it happens in different web sites but in the same hosting Center you mean you know what I mean I understand I\u0027m not sure whether it will happen like this but it\u0027s okay Andre so it cuts ass net first question if you are using as a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:28",
    "text": "destination network specific prefix discovered by RFC 750 yeah that means it only works and that works well dns64 is deployed if there is not known that 6:4 there is no network specific perfect to discover so discovery would fail and then there is no destination for such a report English of course the way I am doing using UDP it means this only will work if the operator implements it implements the the collector can be networks without net 640 and a64 you don\u0027t need you don\u0027t need that and in that case what perfect would be used for destination of those you don\u0027t really need to have not six four or the inner six six fourteen airport you just need a DNS that is announcing the network specific prefix even if you are not using dns64 okay and this is this comes to the other other question that I had if you are I would say abusing the address for the any casted six to four release which are still in operation that means that if the provider will not take those stock my suggest a bus they will go through the gateways no I did that and proposed because the six to four anycast address was used only in IP before what I am using is the ipv6 address resulting from that yes so nobody used it ipv6 address from the NSP plus the IP before six to four anycast address but if it there is nat64 nat64 translation it will translate this is the that that address is deprecated by by an RFC already so they should not be using that deadly so Warren Kumari with no hats it feels like this is immediately gonna get turned into a dos options right like oh look open syslog stuff I can fill up their drive with random crap so you\u0027re gonna favorite closer to my village oh sure you know a few big thing in the security considerations about you know not running out of disk and not having people Mike and Johnny in Cova I can see only very limited application with this right okay I personally might be curious what a happy and kill my corporate network if I put clients and I control them and I would like to know but in this case I probably prefer them to have attends a local disc and not to send all that stuff over the network to me because seeing just destination address well I see some clients having problem connecting to some let\u0027s say CDN or cloud and what I still need is need TCP "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:30",
    "text": "dump another stuff to troubleshoot right and I see and just normal weak access providers I don\u0027t believes he gonna do alien disease because they do not control the clients are they going what call people and ask what kind of problem did you have a last Friday connection to that website result like David\u0027s grazi Apple could you go back one slide please yeah thank you so regarded these open questions so for the first one I\u0027m I don\u0027t want to open a rathole in addresses imports small suggestion you could use a host name and just pump the issue down and be done with it but that\u0027s super minor in my mind the privacy issues for me are a big glaring red flag because in the document in your privacy considerations section you say that we send the source prefix and destination address and then you say so privacy issues regarding an identification of a specific device or user are avoided ah that\u0027s not the case for example at Apple we really care about our users privacy and I\u0027m sure the other device makers here agree if your user is using say private browsing to browse the ATF website for example because they don\u0027t want to know who\u0027s what just for watching and something fails you don\u0027t want a syslog message somewhere to be saying what they\u0027re actually what website they\u0027re actually hitting with the source prefix you can Undine to fie who that was so that\u0027s a very big problem in my mind the regarding point number justjust do you think if we just send the destination will still have privacy issues yes because that still tells you to tell us like that syslog server and that permanent record while website I was like accessing no and so if we could come up with a way to do this that is good for users privacy I think it\u0027s something we could consider but for me that is an absolute showstopper regarding point number four so I\u0027m speaking as one of the authors of draft RFC 6f ffs which is happy eyeballs b2 I don\u0027t think we should integrate this into that document as we discussed v6 ops two days ago that document is heading to work you blacks call very soon this document still has a lot of open questions so I would rather they stay separate and go their separate ways it\u0027s fine if that duck if your document updates this one but I don\u0027t think they should be in the same draft hello Tommy Polly Apple I\u0027m the other author on the a pls draft "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:33",
    "text": "so I think the issue of making a happy eyeball system understandable to the network be able to understand the problems that are going on I think that\u0027s a worthy goal and so I like working on that in general the syslog solution does bother me for a lot of the reasons that have been brought up already I think I mentioned on the list I\u0027d like to hear your thoughts more of how possible is it to do this more in kind of network observational heuristics because as we\u0027ve discussed with some people the patterns that you would see in a happy eyeball system should be somewhat recognizable so let\u0027s say I try one connection to an address and then I try another one and one of them wins the race the pattern of the packet traces would actually be somewhat predictable right because either I send out a syn and nothing ever comes back so it\u0027s half open or the syn ACK comes back but it\u0027s too late and then the club and host will send a reset immediately and so that would be a flag or maybe this thing that came back but it was still too late because they were closely raced and then you would see essentially since an ack-ack and then an immediate fit so if you essentially recognize these connections that are immediately reset or immediately dropped that were done back to back from the same host with another address family or another set of addresses that would be a good indication then maybe something\u0027s up and that doesn\u0027t require explicit communication from the host you already may have the information you need so right now second Michael Abramson so well I like the overall goal of getting telemetry because I think right now the device manufacturers have telemetry and me as an operator I do not I think we should do it in a lot different way like aggregated more have a reliable mechanism to deliver it to me and so on I think they like the the overall goal is good I think the mechanism proposed here and the addresses and so on needs a lot of more work so yeah Allen let\u0027s see what we can come up with together it would be interesting to hear a bit about the strategies that device manufacturers are using for our gating information what what information they\u0027re getting and their experience if from that and say let\u0027s see if we can send that to the ISP as well if we can edit it by the ISP because that\u0027s not always so simple so if I understand correctly it seems that the people like the goal of the document but not the way we are doing basically yeah okay so let\u0027s let\u0027s find another way if other force here happy interesting working on that please contact me and we can try to to figure "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:34",
    "text": "out alternative ways to do that sounds good yeah that\u0027s it yeah so if you\u0027re interested in on working on something talk to Jordan okay Bing are you around good afternoon my name is Julio this is a an old document in this working group this document was initially adopted about four years ago and after some long debate and several discussion it was reshaped in last year as a new document the mainly changes that we lower the level of the opinions from recommendation to considerations and before last last I\u0027d have the chair in our working group ask people opinions on whether we should continue all this work and the result was to continued as an informational document and hopefully we can make it within this year another important suggestion from the chair was let others try to offend some set of concern readers which can get consensus in our working group that some brief background and I summarized some comments that I believe can be considered as kind of representative of this working group the one aspect of comments is regarding to the some redundant content of the document Victor and Kim both suggested to condense the document to make it more concrete and especially Victor suggested to focus on the following models as a little network the and he rented has potential valid use case you are the only use case and the multi crest is also possible very but for the you le with MTV six this is harmful choice okay the other aspect of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:34",
    "text": "the comment is about you are the only department with amputee v6 so I will repeat all the comments as you can see that by yourself so the I think that consensus is explained that people most of the against that usage so this is the latest version the table of content and we largely condensing the materials some analysts this was simply deleted and some was condensed and moved into the introduction section so from the second three we discusses the general consideration the technical aspects doesn\u0027t change and the section four is the analysis and the considerations for the possible deployment scenarios which are basically consistent we is consistent with the suggestion from Victor and apart formula three models we also discuss several special use cases and for example the special voting and the second one is actually the pact map back to my Mac protocol specified by Apple and we also give some considerations on the ipv6 coexistence deployment so basically the technical content doesn\u0027t change much so I will repeat all the details that has been discussed run around in this working group okay so to address the mvtv six years case we now revise the text as this but this document doesn\u0027t consider and you earlier with empty v6 or products as a coach choice for normal case rather than start and considers you are they we is provider aggregate address it has a better approach hopefully this can get consensus in our working group okay after the zero two "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:34",
    "text": "version posted the the chair asks some reviews and brand give the thorough review and we do expect more review and our plan is to make another revision based on potential comments and then we\u0027d like to request a working group that\u0027s a call okay and you comment okay so do we have comments okay medaka KO i do have a comment because it kind of ties into a section in the draft that I\u0027m a co-author on for v6 security because one of the comments in the last call was ula still really and also the recommendation to have very strong language that the IETF does not recommend use of UL A\u0027s so I was a little bit surprised to see this traffic being discussed but I\u0027m happy about it because I\u0027m trying to figure out what language we want to finalize on in the security draft and so I\u0027d like to understand whether or not that language will be here in this draft but thank you okay so let me stick my myself in the middle here to me a EULA is a firewall rule implemented in BGP I don\u0027t allow something to get to whatever system that is by not advertising the address and that\u0027s the primary and perhaps only value of an example of a a EULA in in real operation my t-mobile telephone has a DNS server address that is a EULA and I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t see anything wrong with that you know if you would otherwise have a fire rule that says please protect this device not advertising the address of BGP seems like a good idea so I don\u0027t understand the please kill EULA view point it has a valid use Lorenzo you may disagree with me now yeah I\u0027m not specific point I do disagree because it actually creates a false sense of security because anyone who has an adjacency to your network can send a packet to your EULA and if you thought you were secure and you didn\u0027t have a firewall you\u0027re now wide open so that needs to go in this document as well it the fact that I don\u0027t an advertise and address to you doesn\u0027t mean you can\u0027t send a packet if you\u0027re adjacent to me or if you can arrange for a tunnel to something adjacent to me so that\u0027s that\u0027s I think something that needs to be Curley explained because RFC again that the draft does go into some detail about how it\u0027s different from RFC 1980-1989 I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s sort of I don\u0027t think it covers this and that\u0027s this is a really important point there is no security I didn\u0027t like the idea that we we will "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:34",
    "text": "say that people have requirements for the drop says that people have requirements for you people a + NP tv6 are we still talking about it like you had an entire slide about how people like strongly disagree with that statement can we remove it cuz you know those people are still here well Lerner endo your statement was that you wanted that the thing that he quoted you saying was the one of the statement in there about NB TV sex he wanted him they actively say it was a bad idea yeah there Eric Klein and I also agree that I like the clarification that you la is not RFC 1918 I don\u0027t think that can be repeated enough people need to understand that they are different but yeah the the section 4.3 still says if we don\u0027t consider you la + NP t v6 to be as good as other choices rather the document considers other things to be better it does not actually say not recommended that\u0027s all it would take is one sense this is not recommended preferably in all caps which you use in section in the terminology section although or no other document no nowhere else in the document does there appear to be all caps language yeah this is simply because of the background we lower the level of this document or we don\u0027t say recommend or not recommend no that\u0027s a reason not to put all caps you could use lower case but you can still say not recommended Tim Chang he gave forward a slide I think it\u0027s number three yeah so I agree what learned zone Erica saying I think it should clearly say not recommended at the moment that that section is all wishy-washy and a bit vague I think you cut in the case of number one I know of universities where they\u0027re configuring their v6 only management networks using Euler\u0027s and I say well you could use Global\u0027s and yeah because it doesn\u0027t really matter but I\u0027ll so bothered about that number two we know there\u0027s quite a few ISPs deploying eula plus GUI in home networks and they don\u0027t appear to be zillions of problem calls coming as a result of that I know both sky and BT in the UK at doing that and that\u0027s ten million residential networks but yeah number three we should clearly so he say not recommended if it\u0027s not using two or more nine language then just say not recommend it very clearly and ultimately this is an informational document it\u0027s not DCPS it\u0027s not it\u0027s a little bit lower in terms of the recommendations here anyway but say not recommend it very clearly thanks Ron Bonica juniper no hats I think this document can probably be condensed down to just a couple pages and it can be summarized as follows I\u0027m gonna follow the analogy out of EULA\u0027s being domestic animals you say you\u0027ll Isabella domestic animal don\u0027t route it don\u0027t let it wander around the house unless a it\u0027s yours or B it\u0027s somebody "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:34",
    "text": "else\u0027s and you recognize it so it\u0027s a BGP policy or maybe it\u0027s a firewall policy but very short policy and that\u0027s it well and that\u0027s already in the EULA definition document yeah so the victor coursing two points one is although I personally note Donis I agree with the UL a plus MPTV six I think that if we didn\u0027t mention it you would make it ambiguous and network operators know how to put things together so I think coming out and saying this is in fact the case and don\u0027t do it is a lot more powerful if we feel that\u0027s a bad choice and not mentioning at all admit don\u0027t mention at all it makes it vague and the answer is then we have no recommendation and people will put that together it is yes I\u0027m saying I agree so I\u0027m suggesting we keep it in so we could say it\u0027s not recommended versus polio fair enough so we want to say harmful for the recommending I\u0027m healing which is fine with me is fair enough I just say that we should mention it if we feel that we want to make some statement to the negative about it whether it\u0027s harmful don\u0027t not recommend or whatever that statements agreed before are the within the within the group yeah okay that\u0027s that\u0027s a common learn is played again I think number so number one would like in the case number one I would like to I would like the draft to say that there are large deployments of isolated networks that use global space and that in fact it is a perfectly valid way to use it and it is way more convenient than rolling the dice every time you want to 48 so examples are like carrier IMS networks or the the massive ftth deployment in Japan that\u0027s a world garden that\u0027s all using global space the Google Data Centers I think Facebook uses their own global space all of these things are using global space I think we need a clear explanation why it is not necessary to have you LA\u0027s just because of just just visits a large network that\u0027s disconnected it\u0027s actually a lot easier to get public space if you have a large network and you LA\u0027s do have to be generated on a 48 by 48 basis unless you\u0027re doing something that\u0027s completely prohibited by our standards so that also needs to be considered you can\u0027t just you know rolling the dice is is inefficient right because the you end up with all these you LA\u0027s that you know sure if you only have one ula deployment you you route f c 0 0 you aggregate it and then when you have soon as you have to you but you have this patchwork of firewall rules where these things can\u0027t be aggregated because they\u0027re random so it\u0027s actually not very useful Loretha would use them they\u0027re specific comments with a mailing list that I can have some further discussion and to check whether further revision can get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:38",
    "text": "consensus in China Lorenzo is reminding us i\u0027m gonna have spoken to UK universities that are deploying they they aren\u0027t rolling the dice they\u0027re generating their EULA in a way that they want to make it look so I don\u0027t know what you\u0027re say in the document at the moment about usage considerations but there should be a very clear statement doing that if you use them you should use them properly by rolling the dice are not crafting them to match your GU a sub prefix or just using 0 0 I think that would be a useful thing is saying though yeah but in an enterprise nowhere that\u0027s a small one it\u0027s not a huge deal but yeah yeah but yeah that\u0027s and that\u0027s another point that\u0027s that that\u0027s the reason to saying that thing if you\u0027re gonna merge or do something else that\u0027s why it\u0027s important second thing I would say is maybe we did have that really good talk yesterday by Marcus from Microsoft about his view of how they would solve the multihoming problem without using MPT v6 with the different prefixes and the PVD so I think we should be putting all of effort into making that work just saying very clearly here by not doing that not recommend Victor of course again I actually kind of a great young agree with Lorenz\u0027s comment that you know mentioning that you could there\u0027s some times we may have used the ula where you just use a GUI that\u0027s that makes sense if we want to put it in there however I don\u0027t think that engage the fact that you LA\u0027s are useful in terms of my agreeable I mean there\u0027s a lot of security constrained devices and a lot of isolate networks and some of these isolated networks coexist inside a non isolated Network you know there\u0027s management domains within large access networks that coexist in the routing domain as other devices and you etc so I I think there\u0027s still valid use cases for it it\u0027s being used in production networks and you can actually create security rules that capture all ula space and it takes care of a lot of things from a security perspective especially in constrained devices etc so I don\u0027t think one negates the other but I think mentioning the additional point could be useful in terms of you know false insecurity yeah I mean that\u0027s the thing unfortunately and but I don\u0027t think you LA\u0027s cause bad design I think bad design practices where I think I\u0027m private because I\u0027m using ula is just bad design then those people can you do those those things I don\u0027t think anything we\u0027re gonna do is gonna stop that I think layered security is typically what good spz do Markus keen speaking as an enterprise network operator it\u0027s not unusual for customers to have an isolated network that then needs connectivity back to the corporate network at a latest data stage so I mean we find it\u0027s far simpler just to delegate out of our PA space rather than to have to worry about that easier okay so do you have comments okay thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:41",
    "text": "hello Jim okay let\u0027s speak about tactical solution to the problem I know we can we\u0027ve been hearing about TVD the whole week and I hope EVD will solve most of the problem when it comes meantime I need something right here right now and the problem is again Enterprise multi-home in conky address space right and actually there are two part of the problem one is how to send packets existing packets which are already on the network to the rack uplink and how to tell host which addresses should be used because some addresses might not be used usable because there is no a prince to send them is there because of failure or because of existing policy and indeed how to deal with well whereas fairer scenario and indeed we do not want to lose not right so I was presenting one year ago and veteran as his enterprise multihoming draft which has been adopted by routing working group and that document actually describes in many details general use case and general approach to solve that problem a problem of sending packets to the right uplink is supposed to be solved with probably with solar such as the panel project the problem of a signaling back to host which address it should be using could be salt we is influencing default address selection but for general problem when I have just complex topology we rely on the rule 504 address selection and it\u0027s still not implemented in some operating system right so it\u0027s really hard to do it right here right now for like all those bring your own devices which might not support it so I want as I say something tactical solution not every single possible scenario but for some common use cases so actually I already have an ugly but worked in solution for sending packets where I want them to go it\u0027s good policy based routing come forward in whatever yeah I know it\u0027s ugly but it kind of works while I am waiting for s idea so now how can we influence net source address selection on the cost yeah especially without oh five five the obvious way I see is just to use the rule which tells do not use duplicated addresses so again I\u0027m going to talk about very simple but very common scenario when I have very simple technology which through internet of links and let\u0027s say I have a small "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:44",
    "text": "small network which has two Internet up links and only for internet access right so I\u0027m not talking about situation when those hosts need to go to some special services and I spin the network I just need to go to internet and normal is all siblings will be used either as active active when I do not care which exact uplink is used by particular flow or in primary backup scenario when I want normally traffic go we are one app limp and the second uplink should not be used while the first of link aspirational yes so scenario yes there is a host which ones to download some pictures or video of kittens because I was told every presentation should have kittens and let\u0027s say there are toys peas are like 18 - prefixes / 48 whole / 56 forget preferable so host he has two addresses right and it could you it\u0027s each should use green addresses if traffic is going so green up rim can blue addresses for blocks so as I say we can just use policy-based routing consoles routers so make sure is a diff packet is from green prefix we send it to green up link if green up link is available in and vice versa all blue packets going to blow up link sorry for pink is down no no luck and we look into a feller scenario like so if for some reason either because of polishing or because of a network trailer particular uplink should not be used it means that we do not want to host to use addresses from the prefix and this is I say simple the most obvious way to tell hosts do not use those addresses is to duplicate the others great we have arrays for this right currently so basically what I need I need to be able to change values in array based on the network state based on Samson which is happening Kansa net how I configure it currently and just have prefix and preferred lifetime default router lifetime what I want I want to be able to say if some condition is true if my primary up link is up then I want this prefix to have nonzero preferred lifetime and this router may be we default router and if something else happens let\u0027s airplane goes down I want this prefix to be deprecated or and this router not to be used as a default route so basically one function which I called conditional array because we send in arrays and changing some fields and them based on some conditions so what kind of conditions could it be I use your imagination my use case which I have right now is either interface state similar to vrrp right except for outer in a plane goes down I\u0027m not very master anymore goodbye or if your network topology is a bit more complex and Ramazan one route it router it could be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:46",
    "text": "presence of particular route and the routing tempo may be just around around his particular attributes again this could be Mike very complicated if you want oh it could be very simple in some simple scenarios which filled in array would be desirable to update obviously preferred lifetime and pio and maybe router lifetime to indicate and multi-router scenarios that this router should not be default router anymore again likely derpy if you ifs network Eugene veter P already it\u0027s probably will be done automatically by the arrow position mastership but again maybe some people might have other scenarios so let\u0027s look at the example first example one router to up links one logical router ok it might be actually two routers combined in one logical entity primary backup hopping so I want what I want all my traffic to go through green uplink because it\u0027s cheaper has more capacity whatever so in normal situation when my primary uplink is up I\u0027m sending era router is sending our alias to PIOs one has if your lifetime nonzero and backup oblivion the prefix form backup eyes it has preferred lifetime zero great if primary uplink fails now we execute in another is else a condition for green prefix so green politics gets deprecated and blue prefix is now getting preferred lifetime non zero so host will start using it obviously exists in connections for example within the network will still survive because in common connections to duplicate at address two supposed to be accepted about for all new connections blue prefix will be empty effective uplands actually even simpler right all prefixes could be used as long as uplink choice P border is a corresponding prefix gets deprecated again if it\u0027s simple topology and I\u0027m pretty and again I\u0027m talking about about my problem I have right here right now it\u0027s was slightly small networks this very simple a topology yeah you can easily detect uplink beam-down laser because interface goes down bgp search and design o some route default route disappear whatever you can duplicate the prefix yeah so green up links up in goes down green prefix gets deprecated host start using blue addresses to download for pictures of kittens two routers here now getting slightly more complicated because now in normal scenario router 2 needs to know when something changed on router 1 again in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:46",
    "text": "this case the obvious scenario would be using the presence of particular out in the routing table so in when everything is operational green addresses are used because blue address is certificated by default and if green uplink goes down router to should detected because it has a condition if router 1 uplink exists and my routing table and then start sending erase V is nonzero before lifetime and probably also should advertise itself as a default route if it makes sense yeah so similar act effective up links two routers again simpler then because in this case each router just needs to track its own uh people and duplicate the prefix upon the uplink feather and probably also duplicate itself as default router will make sense yeah this is further scenario for two up links if you have complicated topology yeah now we need to do more complicated policy because first hop router doesn\u0027t have all those knowledge of up links they change probably again presence of uplink routes could be used as trigger of a changing arrays yeah and then you can use again your imagination to make very complex and ugly disease but at least in some use cases I found quite common it kind of works currently unfortunately you have to play with some automation on the router to do this so I believe it would be really nice to get something like that implemented as a standard efficient router I have feature request some vendor to vendor solutions so I would like to hear an opinion if she resents Lorenza for suggesting to write a disease based on the draft present in and battery use case for enterprise multi-hole back questions so yeah I\u0027m trying to figure out how to implement this it seems like what you\u0027re asking for is some kind of a rule in each router on each interface that says either I do are I do not have a route to is VB and if I don\u0027t have a route I shouldn\u0027t be I should throw the lifetime for for that profits as far as people using that address number one is that what you\u0027re suggesting number two what happens if I\u0027ve already lost is PB and now I lose is PA am I saying don\u0027t use any addresses okay so yes what I am asking is here instead of just let me so yeah instead of just configuring some parameters of arrays I want to have some policy applied and in this policy I want to say some conditions right and okay so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:49",
    "text": "policy is a magic word how do you implement it to answer a zip question I need to know how you in general implement the sink right and I don\u0027t want to make any speculation some Z\u0027s okay so may I cut in one you can take a guess I\u0027m suspecting the policy would be something like if you have a route to this prefix use source a if you have a route to the other prefix you source me if you have a route to both I\u0027m not quite sure and if you have a route to neither pick one okay so and what we\u0027re gonna do if you do not have any internet connectivity right here it\u0027s actually so this depends on desired apology if it just one router or like very small topology and you do not really want intra side connectivity in this case right yeah you just duplicate everything right if you want to have in recite connectivity in this case we might our warrants will hate me we might use you a lace or it another case might be because in this scenario you might actually have a certain prefix which you cut your corporate projects right if it\u0027s like this if it\u0027s just a small side belonging to a bigger Network right you still might use your corporate prefix to have inter-site connectivity and it would make sense because I probably still won something in my corporate DNS for inter-site to be used but there is no internet connectivity so it does not matter for for work illegals so yeah if you have short prefix it might be the corporate prefix belonging to the company or usually you can use it yeah okay Tim Berners UNH I wall so I was thinking about the two hour rule for a host that they can\u0027t drop it if there are times over two hours I can only drop it to two hours it\u0027s really it\u0027s really at least time is something thought ah okay so my second question is why not route information options because again not I don\u0027t think all operating systems support and i/o that\u0027s about the support no yes it\u0027s about support because it\u0027s tactical solutions I know PVD will do it much much better okay thanks there\u0027s lamb putter so I totally support the approach I will probably go implement it I do know how I will implement it can you go back to the slide where you had on the left the triggers that can earlier I think yeah the next one next one actually yeah so all of the potential triggers that I can see will have some kind of impact on my routing tables so the only thing I will do when implementing this as I think it is I\u0027ll just go check whether for the prefix that is on the link I can reach a address that is to be configured by the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:51",
    "text": "user for the purpose of testing whether this prefix is usable so you could why default just have the empty address like zeros are there which works fine for checking if I have a t4 out from the prefix that is on a link to the Internet it could also be something specific to the company if it\u0027s like services that doesn\u0027t actually do internet basically and I think that is all that is needed in terms of policy to model 99.9% of the cases however I also agree that we probably need additional policy above that in terms of what to do when I run out of prefixes and I don\u0027t have anything on the link anymore and I\u0027m not using your lanes stuff like that and that is a more complicated topic that needs more work and more specification because another option I\u0027m just hinting may be that if yeah you can say okay if it\u0027s the last whatever how will you find yours don\u0027t duplicate it because there is no internet connectivity anymore so if you do not care about selecting the right one so yeah it\u0027s a I would like to hear your suggestions okay so I I would on my I\u0027d like to hear if anyone thinks that the policy on the triggers needs to be something more than checking in the routing table if from the prefix on the link something specific is reachable or not Markus keen yeah I think this is very useful of having the hook between I mean the rib and an NG there Ras and in this case just just reading the draft I think in one place that we\u0027ll run into trouble is with remote border whooshes I think you\u0027re doing active active and that might be a problem if if the border with his aren\u0027t equidistant where you might basically have host sort of load balancing to other hosts in the internet but just below bouncing between the two different sources I\u0027m actually the one other one of the actual border is closer and it so it may not be actually using the correct source in that case that\u0027s I guess a corner case I think it\u0027s interesting I think it\u0027s nice it\u0027s not requiring any host changes but there\u0027s figuring to meet the changes needed to route is to make it work but so what extent with the new net comp stuff that\u0027s being defined now and finally I think just about the pop outs and obviously do you think that\u0027s likely to be adopted soon and would something monitoring the network just be able to detect the outage and send the appropriate commands the other Reuters to reconfigure themselves is that viable approach in the taco enterprise network or would you rather have the Reuters figure it out for themselves talk to each other I would look the Reuters to do it themselves because one of the scenarios I\u0027ve seen right it\u0027s a small vacation small site right it\u0027s just maybe one rotor there and no nice and except few users in a printer right so I do not want to use any external automation if it\u0027s what you\u0027re saying right not necessarily external I mean this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:52",
    "text": "a feeling having Baker raise this in the primary last night about having systems that can detect and yeah probably I probably couldn\u0027t deploy is it system on-site all the time right because it doesn\u0027t scale I cannot help the system somewhere in data center because that system will need to reach device quickly enough right it\u0027s the same like we say multihoming and dixie v6 right it\u0027s a drive additional delay before you can signal everything back and it might not be acceptable for users right especially when your connectivity is unstable and you have hundreds of sides we need to do it right so I\u0027m not sure I care well the sheikah I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s going very well okay because the router will know anyway right Robert doesn\u0027t know that something happens with connectivity and it\u0027s closer to the end cost so it will be immediate right let\u0027s go all right goes on yeah I think it\u0027s I think it\u0027s great for us to document what works today in host sit worship 10 years ago because that\u0027s really that\u0027s really the reality of what a network operator needs to do you know they need to support hosts that ship 10 years ago and so it\u0027s super useful to have this written down what we can what we can do in which topologies it work so much topologies it doesn\u0027t I think for that for the triggers I do wonder if there needs to be some some support in some routing protocol I mean I know that the routing working group is working on Seder I think at least I do wonder if we need really something in BGP as well for sort of larger scale networks that says look you know these prefixes are only valid so more to the point like do we need something in BGP that communicates BC p38 limitations i I will announce this to you but it\u0027s only valid for from these source prefixes do you think yeah yeah I think we definitely need it but yeah it\u0027s more related to the first problem how to send packets well right so it\u0027s it would be the trigger here - ah so you mean BGP done yeah maybe I I did not think about this particular scenario because again I like carbon 20 if you go here you come here you talk about your problem people listen you feel better so yeah and my main problem is currently I have also small sights Epirus did you betray me some of them like what PGP No so yeah it might not pick a ball for BGP but if it\u0027s BGP we assume you might advertise them some since we might have some addresses here we can extend it to BGP a definitely so I\u0027m open for suggestions of the mailing list what should be other cruises draft as a use case and what should be probability moves I don\u0027t know so we\u0027re on query Google kind of answering Fred\u0027s thing most implementations already do vrrp "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:52",
    "text": "tracking so I think this is exactly where you do all your vrrp tracking for you know interface up/down or contributing prefix you just heck this in in exactly the same place easy done maybe Dave Taylor so I wanted to answer your question about what you do if both of your up links are down answer you leave them both deprecated is the only correct answer what you don\u0027t want to do is bring them both back up because that has multiple undesired effects now if maybe one or two of them in case it isn\u0027t obvious to people one of them is in all of your other diagrams right yeah to anyone with a read yeah stop anyone with a little red broken blob on one of the up links any one of the diagrams it has a broken off like that one has both of them yeah that one\u0027s fine alright so you can see they\u0027re the only prefix this change is the ones associated with is PA right and so the uplink there controls the preferred lifetime right the blue preferred lifetime is not affected by anything other than the blue uplink right if you start having these side effects where other things can control your metric right that causes one style of problems another style of problem you mentioned is what if they\u0027re both down I have to have an address but at least these are preferred lifetimes not veiled lifetimes you still have addresses if you\u0027re a host they\u0027re just not not not preferred so what this source address selection RFC says it doesn\u0027t say that you can\u0027t use deprecated addresses yeah it says that they\u0027re deprecated and you use them only we don\u0027t have anything else right so the rule is avoid deprecated dresses so if you have one that\u0027s deprecated when it\u0027s not doesn\u0027t matter what are the any other rules are you pick the one that\u0027s not deprecated cuz that\u0027s way high in the set of rules it\u0027s like way before a 5.5 right but fuller and it\u0027s ipv6 working of my point is that if they\u0027re both deprecated you get the same rule as if they\u0027re both not deprecated would you go down the list yeah and so there\u0027s no advantage to putting them both back up there\u0027s only disadvantage so the only right answer is you leave them both deprecated yeah and it doesn\u0027t matter whether you\u0027re using ul A\u0027s or not the right thing happens in both cases yeah yeah yeah good point I was going to add it to the drafts Network and you hope that your outage doesn\u0027t last for six hundred and four thousand seconds no because but with you we still be set period yukari\u0027s it\u0027s not just Warner I am saying if I change the kind and I keep sending them can we go to the next slide Michael Abramson yeah like what to do when you want to not use the prefix in RFC 7080 for but the home like this where was the residential gateway what it should do when it\u0027s LAN port goes down and it doesn\u0027t have as few things that kind of thing is in there probably we have a few years of experience on how hosts react to this event so I think we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:52",
    "text": "know pretty well what to do and that should work here home that also did the same thing with the source routing I mean it\u0027s doing the same thing you\u0027re trying to do here just it\u0027s proposed the control plane in order to do what trying to do here I\u0027ve played around with the hell netcode it did the same thing deprecated prefixes blah blah blah I think you should look at that code try it out see what is do we see what\u0027s working for me it was working I had multiple uplink so it seemed to do the right thing so basically for me this is home net but you didn\u0027t specify the control plane so that I think we have a lot of like experimentation that has been done a lot of like there is document to look at and so on if you want to propose a different control plane that\u0027s fine but yeah I think what to do and what sent to the host is so honest you can find that in multiple places ok no ok so 70 84 eclis specifies it what happens when your wine port goes down so you can at least cook it with pride from that one lamp yeah I do indeed think that this may not be specified in the way that is applicable here so and even if it is I think it\u0027s perfectly fine to pick it out from there and have it here as if there is prior art to look into what to do when you want to deprecated something and there is running code to look at and see what it is yeah yeah Lorenza clean 70 84 does not say this I think and also made the home that also does not say this I think it\u0027s cazuli didn\u0027t want it to say that and I think he\u0027s wrong but the fact is that we don\u0027t have this I think ok the rest of us can\u0027t see them yeah it\u0027s all 13 inside a 70 84 if you go read requirement 13 you know send out preferred lifetimes of 0 and do exactly what you\u0027re describing the only other thing I\u0027ll add is I would put in our iOS in this too in case in the future people actually implement our iOS because there\u0027s there might be some use cases for that the guidance is probably whatever resource is tied to that prefix or whatever just lifetimes every way oh yeah yeah you do this yep so um Dave who is not Mike said some people implement them I\u0027d like to say that as of recently some more people implement them and we\u0027re waiting for her even more people to implement them David okay so do you know what you\u0027re doing with us you know if it\u0027s a group would like to adopt a toe they would like me to see another version with some stuff added of it sounds like there needs to be some interaction with Tom net earth yes but Mike I\u0027m Michael I resign I would really like to see more work on the control "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:52",
    "text": "plane like water water the mechanisms are so on before before like otherwise III don\u0027t like we can\u0027t just hand wave and say it looks do something but then yes to build this I would love I would liked I definitely kept it quite generic because like we have this inquiry a letter P for example right we have some conditional things and routing can I advertise this route if I have another out for example right I do not want to make it very specific because it depends what kind which vendor you are using right how do you detect the failure it might be vendor dependent right so something that you can use somehow building automation right now we do if something happens I want to change my configuration but I would like it here to be at standard feature or something personally I would like to see more before I think it\u0027s okay so we\u0027ll talk offline so I can get your suggestions and put them in the document and sent an updated version time example again I do agree that we can look at home and at what they do I don\u0027t think that will that this should keep us from adopting the document even though I agree that we do that and I also disagree with Mikkel I think the the interface to the routing system is perfectly clear and that this should ask is there a route with four packets that would have this source address at this destination and that\u0027s it I wouldn\u0027t try to look at any interface states that we are a piece dates or anything because all of those ultimately have their effect in the routing table so just ask the routing system can I get from here to there and that\u0027s it they\u0027re Dukes Francisco you\u0027ve done some experimentation with this thank you right and how how how fast is the propagation so yeah okay that\u0027s a problem right so currently the best think I condone some platforms is to play with gated config changed right upon event however that platform I was playing Wii is also had a bug which is now supposed to be fixed that if you change the right section of config it\u0027s not sending current immediately sometimes it\u0027s still waiting for this array to be for next timer to expire it was a bug report it\u0027s been fixed so it\u0027s a work in progress and I\u0027m just trying to describe how it should be done so we can go back to the others and tell them please do something like that so I can implement that in my network right so unfortunately I can\u0027t tell you that I have a solution radio in my network and otherwise I wouldn\u0027t defend it here probably will be just a few rings and stuff and for their network with multiple routers and the more you don\u0027t just have a red are connected directly to a host we\u0027ve got some mid notes like that example did did you did you see any "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:54",
    "text": "propagation delay between the the mid router or is that relatively quick from so he\u0027s done or have you been able to test that yes this is a propagation time of her own project alright so I have the test of this particular scenario because I was giant because this is just expanding the previous cases I was playing with like one or two routers in the really small sites yeah all right thanks so I\u0027m not I\u0027m not ready to talk about real like measurement on how fast it\u0027s going to be because I I do not seen the vendors I actually given me what I what I want right now unfortunately so I have to do some wd-40 and sticky tape to get this no Joe please tell Francisco I think this is a very interesting work and is useful to document it that\u0027s what is proposed in the CPE RFC seventy eighty four and and what is implemented in many routers it\u0027s also what is specified in home at home met routers believe the same way and a duplicate prefix when some prefix uplink is not available anymore and just to come back to the the trigger discussion I think we had the routing protocol is a dis some trigger to have to update that I think we should adopt disciplined Lorentz equality I think that the these bugs that you that you found which make the difference between like an eighty percent solution and a 95 percent solution are really a really good reason to get this adopted and published because then we can say look you know here\u0027s a thing that we know how to do and there\u0027s like these two tiny little bugs that are that oppose that stand between us and doing this type of multihoming now this doesn\u0027t fix all the problems right we have some remaining failure cases but like and and like when when like when I can when somebody asks me like why does our one thing that you didn\u0027t notice that some host will ignore Ras because battery life right so but when so one thing that you might need to do is when something happens you might have to send a few RS and that\u0027s another thing that you might have to say hey vendor for a Timex can you send a few RAS and that will help a bunch of other deployments that send are raised every three seconds cuz host don\u0027t listen so I think this is gonna be a really good thing and when somebody comes to me saying our device should drop 90% of multicast I could say no because when enterprise\u0027s deploy this it will break them and so having this written down and adopted and possibly published it is gonna be really good for that purpose David\u0027s Ganassi Apple just want to say that I think this is really really good work and that I support adoption okay so let me pose three questions at this point for a hum I just want the sense of the room I\u0027ll give you three options no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:56",
    "text": "option number one is we really hate this work we were really want to not adopt it option number two is this is wonderful work we want to adopt it now it needs work but we want to adopt it now the third option is again we need for you to work on this a little bit more develop the concept and then we\u0027ll consider adopting it so those three options so first who feels that this is not something that we want to be working on please home okay having heard that answer or having not heard that answer who would like to adopt it now please humph okay who thinks gem needs to do some additional work and then we can consider adopting it please home okay so I think that\u0027s pretty clear so Dave what\u0027s up I have a last comment while we were speaking I have hacked together and implementation of this okay so yeah so so I need you post that as draft idea whatever and we can talk about what the name should be but yeah great thank you okay so with that and this is my talk so he\u0027s the chairman I\u0027m sorry yeah yeah aren\u0027t you supposed to stand in the pots I\u0027m probably where is that box okay so the origin of this draft is that john grochowski gave a talk at a webinar is run by the routing area chair it\u0027s a couple of weeks ago and one of the questions that he said that he was having trouble deploying ipv6 and his networking one of the issues was that CPE routers don\u0027t come with ipv6 turned on by default and so I wanted to walk through what I do at or what I did at month what my home but I actually had to get a Cox engineer who had played with my router in his lab to tell me you know what magic tricks he got through in order to configure ipv6 on his router so let me just walk through what I what I had to do it I went down to Best Buy and I bought whatever router they said was a wonderful thing and so now when I got "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:57",
    "text": "home I plugged the thing in and note that having plugged it in ipv4 worked ipv4 just worked I was able to download a new image make sure the thing had believes software it was configured correctly life happened and you know ipv4 just worked so then using ipv4 I went to my laptop and I logged into the router and then I had to go to the advanced configuration screen because of course ipv6 is an advanced configuration and then I had to go to advanced setup which was on the next screen and then I had to go to selecting ipv6 which was an advanced setup on the advanced screen after I logged into the router and then I had to go to a thing that actually had a number of different options and say please just figure it out and yeah so that thing the thing at the upper right hand corner that I had circled there actually says English but what it said by the time I got to it what it said was auto-detect and and so I felt very much for John in his come on guys can we make this work please okay so then we\u0027ve had a little bit of a conversation about the draft that I put together which was come on yeah let\u0027s not be idiots here what you need to do and Lorenzo your comment was that we have RFC 7020 ed whatever it is seventy eighty four which says here\u0027s a list of RFC\u0027s please implement them and okay great you know we\u0027ve got a list of RFC\u0027s please implement them and they\u0027re all implemented in this rabbit every single one of them as near as I can tell is implemented in this rabbit and Marber Stark jumped in and said well you know why don\u0027t you just follow the TR 1:24 well so I went to TR 1:24 and looked and it gives me a list of RFC\u0027s as near as I can tell every single one of those RFC\u0027s is implemented in this route the barber is about to dispute with me I pointed you specifically to a flow chart in an appendix that showed a flow as to the decisions to make general observation I wish you luck if you don\u0027t have a cox engineer who is played with this in his lab turning on ipv6 in your home using the router that i have in my home which was the best one that I could buy from Best Buy I don\u0027t think it\u0027s going to happen I don\u0027t think my daughter is going to do it I don\u0027t think my wife is gonna do it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:57",
    "text": "it was hard for me to do it and gerd airing on the list came back and said you\u0027re not the only one that has discovered that so there there are several different ways that we can go with this and and I\u0027m really not particularly stuck on my particular draft quite happy to have it go away if that\u0027s the right thing to do I\u0027ve been in a couple of different working groups and under research group this morning where people stood up and said Jake could we somehow please tell the vendors to make your your document make your router just like it doesn\u0027t ipv4 to actually do the right thing we like to do sex the problem that I had in sitting down figuring out what that algorithm should be was that on both sides of the router the way inside talking to the ISP and my home side talking through whatever else I\u0027ve got the slack approach I\u0027ve got the DHCP approach shingly told me this morning that in his network he has to deploy separate SS IDs 1 for the Android computers and one for everything else because of the difference basically between slack and DHCP and the debate that we have in this community and Bob tendons about to correct me on that no something else oh okay what\u0027s on your mind so it it does vary Bob hinted and so it does vary I mean the router I have I think I had to click one box and the rest just worked yeah so there you know yeah some people are doing it better than others somehow I think we as a community need to communicate to the vendor community that g-guys has just got to work and the debate that I would suggest that we have at the mic and in the next few minutes is what\u0027s the best way to do that how do we achieve that so in this morning\u0027s map RG session I mentioned this you know the ready logo obviously tests 784 one thing we do or don\u0027t do at the moment is we don\u0027t require that boxes you know happy 6 turn on by default we test all those wonderful RCZ lists and boxes that get the CD router logo can do all of those but doesn\u0027t mean they\u0027re on by default so I think that\u0027s something that we as a local committee I\u0027ll probably take back based on a draft like this is going back and making that a requirement to get the logo saying look you shouldn\u0027t put this on your box if you don\u0027t turn v6 on by default because that\u0027s not very helpful you know years ago we didn\u0027t do it because it might cause operational issues I think we\u0027re way past that now so I think it\u0027s something that we should talk about I think I think this what Barbara start what huh Tim just for the notes I think what you said was important you say a few words about the logo that you\u0027re talking about sigh commercial gets captured yeah so no the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:59",
    "text": "ipv6 surety logo is a program that\u0027s been going on since the early two-thousands about the promotion of ipv6 so basically we take the base our C\u0027s and test all the must in them and it\u0027s a way of our manufacturers to indicate that they\u0027ve done a marketing program so in this case for seventy eighty four we test all the musts that are requirements that are listed in that draft barber stark um so actually if you wanted something as simple as recommending that dual stack just regular ipv6 be enabled by default on general purpose routers I think that might be a very powerful statement my disagreement was purely with the specific flow that you are suggesting because we use a different flow and I didn\u0027t want it suggested that our flow is wrong and that flow is right right just some additional comments the only successful deployments with actual ipv6 traffic that you see from service providers or where service providers have provided the routers with v6 enabled on the routers and all of that and you know my theory from Lee Howard\u0027s presentation in the last v6 ops there was that service provider that had like a hundred percent enabled and almost no traffic my theory is that they\u0027ve got their own router but it\u0027s a really simple one port router and then everybody\u0027s putting their own router behind that and that\u0027s blocking all the v6 because other than the half a percent of people who were apparently using v6 from that service provider nobody enables ipv6 and that\u0027s been some of my concerns about some of these 7080 for updates by the way is if you have this long laundry list to choose from no user is going to be going in and selecting from the laundry list and so either you\u0027re you\u0027ve got something that works with dual stack and dual-stack is it or you\u0027ve got something from the service provider that does it for you Geordi pilot I I was trying to find me but I cannot find it right now there is a soft wire sizing document something like unify HCP which at least for the part of the different transition mechanics possibilities is allowing the the router to guess and the router the communication between the router and the and the operator to guess what is available in the network and make it automatically on which a priority basis so if there are even several transition mechanism a label which one is preferred okay I think at least two of the co-authors of that document are in the room so maybe they they can provide some more "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:59",
    "text": "information but I try to find the document to to know what is the exactly start to say I didn\u0027t find right now but we can discuss that later in the list Lorenza clearly I I don\u0027t know if the Sock\u0027em has changed since I read it but it seemed like it was a little bit too details and I\u0027m not a fan of that because if it\u0027s detailed then people will read it and implement it but instead they should be reading 1784 and implementing that well the old 70 84 is says please implement all these are no no no others actually do not at all it does way more than that it says if you do this if this happens then you have to do that and there\u0027s a lot of things in there that explain how not to break v6 connectivity III was advising a team that was implementing v6 support in a harm reader and they tripped up of all sorts of things and like okay well what do we do enlist what do we like wait we\u0027ve got an address here like wait why don\u0027t we have a PD and an RA okay well which one do we use and it\u0027s all in there you have to say basically I told them read this RFC implement them and then don\u0027t launch until tim has given you the green light that\u0027s what I told them and I that\u0027s what they\u0027re doing and so I think but there are a couple of things that you\u0027re right we should do first of all we should say you know this is you know what our 2017 we need IPC to be on by default and I think doing you know saying and you can\u0027t get the ipv6 ready logo unless it\u0027s on by default is a great thing I think that would be super useful and whatever we can do to make that happen is is helpful and third maybe there\u0027s some amount of work and I\u0027ll let let you know Hans talk about that because I think remember once Hans built an awesome implementation that would detect if PPP was configured it would do PPP and if not it would be do GCP and it would do this and fall back and I think if we had that written up saying like first try this if PPP is configured try that if not try this other thing if not try this other thing then that might be something that is it\u0027s kind of like a detection mechanism that might be useful right up and I think it comes maybe you don\u0027t speak to that I just found it is probably she 7080 26 the the one about the priority of what to choose okay so it\u0027s there it\u0027s where FFC 1826 all right hums front earrings um no I don\u0027t think my UI is better though yes am i us better because I do followed here 104 as Barbara just mentioned there\u0027s a flow in the appendix showing that and I councillor Enzo and everybody before like a couple five years ago like if fly PB for course pppoe basically I will try let YP p six as well first and if the ipv4 cross DHCP then I will try lad as well and and everything "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:59",
    "text": "so however I do agree lad we should simplify sit and the lattice sort of let unless ITF I was saying that I started the one to have lapies mentioned you about like a 16-4 and the other stuff I really I know isn\u0027t it isn\u0027t it is basically the wording and everything but I sort of doesn\u0027t want to steal and in my UI in the four or six Rd and PS like can just be I do today using the DHCP options to enable it Michael Abramson sir I did ask this on some mailing list there were probably if several people here on about if you go on to the electronic store and buy something does it have a v6 turn on by default there were people there acclaim they had multiple devices that did have this on and it worked and I think this is true for like native-like just IPR Ethernet and PD and but then I heard about all kinds of special deployment scenarios where you have to pppoe sessions one for v4 and I want for me six and but I think there is a lot of things out there that makes it really hard for someone trying to implement this as a generic mechanism to work in you know I wanted this to work in 99.9% of operators plug it in it it goes that could be really hard but at least we could perhaps identify the most common cases that the that the word should just work automatically out of the box and so I don\u0027t know should start by if people can just share what different scenarios that is be typically do and what the gateways would need to support in mod in my in Sweden people there are a few providers that supply the the residential gateway like 99% of them run them you know the way the ISP provided them when they are please example it\u0027ll be great there are others where people are basically buying them in the electronic store that will be completely different stories so I think this is important work okay yeah Viktor chorusing so very much agree with most the commodores I think this is probably the next step as most people said I Spees who deploy the routers they\u0027ll turn it on when I turn it on I think even my sample size is small but of the folks that we helped up north with off-the-shelf boxes it was oh I have never saw a router that configured itself to do dual stack on its own you had to do some advanced configuration at least go through a couple of menus so I think it\u0027s important work I think to get I think dual stack I would prefer personally to keep it as simple as possible maybe I could reduce the whole thing - one sentence if you prefer well if you turn on ipv4 by default turn on ipv6 by default yeah what I meant was simplicity in terms of I know there\u0027s a lot of options and the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:59",
    "text": "maybes a lot of transition technologies potentially if we can avoid having the you know if if there is probably if this transition talk to technology being used potentially has more of an advanced setup anyway and we you know you know they\u0027re trying to figure out how we simplify this is you know the comment was meeting Australian the panel plenary right we gotta start thinking things in terms of how do we get that consumer space to actually get on you know how do we help the consumers I think there\u0027s one good way keep it as simple as possible and try to achieve goals and we can iterate from there so if we try to go in day one and say okay here\u0027s a large complex way of rattling through everything and we make the implementation complex I just concerned that that might potentially do more harm than good right I know and then I\u0027d say I think the idea that was mentioned is maybe we you know talk to some of the operators and figure out what are the if if if a router shows up behind what you\u0027ve deployed what does that look like what are some of those basics the pieces look like maybe that\u0027s a some other document that sits beside this or something does that go a long way I mean for example in the cable space I mean you typically use a router that the provider gives you or goes in the bridge mode it\u0027s very very clear what those two things look like and that can be documented pretty clearly so Michael a res it wasn\u0027t there someone who are like and been through it had like 700 people report what their provider ID six that like hey what was provisioned yes yeah that was you right that\u0027s why I was looking at you you were like older will it is probably good I got something like 1,500 responses from different ISPs worldwide so there is a lot of information there yeah hey Fred Chomsky so two things so one coming about what Barbour said I know for a fact that people take our gateway and a plug-in like an SRX a si likes yes like small bit small businesses or home businesses so one of the things we were looking at is working with all the in that space to get v6 right and working and on by default that\u0027s been at least a three year journey so far the other thing about if you can open the hood here for whatever the reference to 74 is you might as well work on add to the list what happens when the Gateway doesn\u0027t get an ipv4 address right that\u0027s coming to a theater new year and it takes if this round of this takes as long as the last time took at a time you know this is it should be perfectly timed right so like for example one of the things that we worked on years ago is like if you if you don\u0027t send a v4 address I know there\u0027s some gateways that would like you know blink lights at you and stuff like that yeah and may or may not work all right so it\u0027s probably something good to put in there yeah just thinking ahead michael ranson against this this just struck me that I\u0027ve said in other place if people hook up something behind the ISP provider networks if that if the if the provided "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "NAT Fox doesn\u0027t support sub PD this the users behind that device will never get ipv6 so I don\u0027t think in 1784 red barber 1784 doesn\u0027t have sub PD - it doesn\u0027t know okay so we did we did that so like the the residential gateway can it do PD to other devices in the home if it okay that is in there okay I guess it\u0027s a shit because I think that\u0027s actually something that we could do and bring that okay I guess we can\u0027t make it in law okay it would be good if more devices did that and had recommendations for operators to support that because then at least even though it\u0027s a double than that for for a good e6 is still you know works the two devices even that if people double stack their quad rest in the home chillingly um I actually kind of disagree with that last statement there are several CPE devices that will happily bridge under the circumstances so if they if they got us last 64 on the outside you\u0027ll get one on the inside now it\u0027s not the configuration that I would prefer as a user but they do do that also we did have a down gentleman from d-link up here and having used several of his products with native v6 support since 2011 as far as I can tell all of the ones currently in the marketplace there are 31 of them have this enabled by default so that\u0027s a pretty large population of devices I don\u0027t know how many he\u0027s sold but I assume it\u0027s in the millions since they have enough margin to send people here and they cost like $40 each so I it\u0027s certainly possible for vendors to do this like I am at the point where I can go to Fry\u0027s buy something on the end cap and get v6 in my house now I wouldn\u0027t guarantee that anything that I bought it fries would give me v6 I think sometimes the thing at the end the end cap is a crock-pot but certainly those devices do exist and I think it would be good to encourage vendors to do that generally but I think it\u0027s certainly possible to get their barber stark so just a comment about the ia PD you know as a service provider ours does I a PD but that\u0027s because we know ours is at the edge one of the reasons we did not or I did not want to make it a must in 70 84 is because out of deference to what home that was working on with H NCP as possibly being the preferred mechanism of distributing prefixes delegating prefixes around a home network and so that\u0027s why it turned out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:01",
    "text": "to just be a shed okay so not quite sure the way forward if there is even a way forward I could reduce this draft to one sons would like people like me to do that I mean I\u0027d like to see something really simple of can we recommend sons might be simple yeah can we recommend you know ipv6 dual stack enable or native enabled by default and you know maybe we need to define what we mean by native but we should know what we mean by native bit yeah yeah mark mark Townsley one of the reasons that the d-link product line has ipv6 enabled by default and at the time before Cisco sold it off to Belkin the Linksys products did as well maybe even some neck years I don\u0027t remember all the whole list is that we involved them in the world launch in 2011 there are three sets of targets of people of groups companies involved you know ISPs content providers and consumer router vendors so it weren\u0027t some and I think it you know the the things that you can do that maybe the Internet Society could do again maybe around the next June 6 there\u0027s something to raise awareness what have you coupled with things like the offer to add the default into the ready logo program that was mentioned earlier those kinds of outreach things will do a lot more than yet another RFC saying please do ipv6 and do it this way well absolutely but on the other hand the v6 ready logo program is based on node requirements ok if you need this study they update to noted requirements I don\u0027t know yeah if you need to do that that is the better I think is the more important okay Michael and at that point close Michael Abramson said it just struck me that there\u0027s one other I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s failure scenario but it was a pretty common device like five years ago five years old you set it to automatic and it there was nothing on the v6 on the one it did nothing I treated disabled ipv6 and it turned on six to four and gave me a 64 or a on on the lab we don\u0027t I don\u0027t know if there is anything like that we should discourage people from from doing if that\u0027s needed but we could put into this as well okay so thank you thank you Geordi actually while talking about this I realized that one possible addition to where FC seventy seventy eighty four is referring "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:03",
    "text": "to the one I mentioned eighty twenty six as probably something that should be in by default in in any ipv6 gateway right okay very quickly I did a single presentation for all the documents because at the end everything is about the same so first let\u0027s look at what we have done since since Chicago this is the fifth version of of this update to seventy eighty four I I put in different colors so that people can identify quickly they have not read the draft recently what it is is it has been done so we have in a red color what is completely new from the the actual RFC seventy eighty four so we have new the support for hum net the texts regarding the user scenarios and the support for ipv4 multicast continuity in lands for things like IPTV okay then in orange is what what has been updated and there is new text so that\u0027s basically the part about the support for different transition but ipv4 as a service an ipv6 as a service and then the rest is basically updating the text and that\u0027s it I don\u0027t think I miss if anything as a summary of what has been done up up to now they mainly issue that that has been discussed in the list and I think is the only open issue if we decide to keep going in this direction is the shoot for the element ation of DNS proxy as described on never see 5625 I decided not to keep going with the discussion until we decide what we do with this document because the the overall discussion was more relevant to we go into this direction of a single document all we want to split it as I actually did so this is the discussion that we have already in Chicago it was do we want a single document which is the actual 70 80 sorry the 70 yes 70 84 lose the changes that I have just suggested it and and I understood from Chicago that the the consensus was clear the people wanted to adopt as a working group item and I got some some comments but in private and in the mailing list and this is why we are here I want to remind something that I put in in the Chicago slides is that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:03",
    "text": "this is the the reality check right we don\u0027t have any more ipv4 addresses and this is the router that from my perspective and I think a lot of people share that we will meet for the next three to five years okay so it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s easy to say we want an ipv6 on the router but that\u0027s not going to work today because the people still have a lot of devices inside the local area networks that requires some kind of ipv6 support let\u0027s call it ipv6 sorry ipv4 support let\u0027s call it ipv4 service okay so that was the the basic idea for me to to work on this document and the reason to do to require support for for this kind of transition mechanism so we have again this question do we want the actual document including the transition support or we want to have a document with more complete support for transition mechanism or we want to go back to the previous version of the RFC 70 84 which was the 60 to 0-4 with didn\u0027t have support for ipv6 transition okay so that\u0027s the thing and I I believe we have different choices I tried to do to make it charge so the first one will be and this is one of my actual documents a very minimum set of real real ipv6 only requirements okay I think this is basically the actual RC 70 84 without any IP for support and without any transition support okay I agree that this is something that we are going to need in the future but as I just said I don\u0027t think is the real short or medium term is not something that the people will ask in general except for cases of ipv6 only network so for example if you are deploying a small networks only for sensors which yotie or things like that then yeah maybe this router is a bit cheaper and it makes sense to have this one second choice is having a basic requirements customer edge router including support for hammett why and this is something that we had commented actually in the previous talk because it may happen and it\u0027s very common that the customers put another router behind the one that the ISP is providing and yes we have the discussion about is that in bridge mode to router mode but while having support for HC NP can can solve at least the problem of delegating "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:05",
    "text": "having different routers in the same in the same network after the one provided by the ISP so this is the the second document that that I submitted the names I give to these documents I are estranged probably but I wanted to make it like very clear what is each one right okay we have other choices that I have not documented I don\u0027t believe in those choices but maybe some people would like to go to that the first one we\u0027ll be doing but I mean what things I mentioned before which is a real real real ipv6 on the router and an ipv6 on the router which home network support okay so these are two possibilities so we can make that as a single option and work in both directions another one will be the actual RFC 7080 for without any transition support which basically is going back to 60 I don\u0027t remember the number it was 60 60 to 0-4 okay and then if we go for this for this path we need an additional document which I also submitted for the transition part okay so basically we have keep going with our decision in Chicago so it\u0027s updating 70 84 with the transition support and HomeNet or splitting it in different documents one for transition and and one or several for the basics apiece so I\u0027m not sure if you want to go for some discussion or doing a kind of pool or you want to do this pool in the list if you like it or not I mean yeah it\u0027s up to you well if I were to suggest that people come to the mic would it get crap what happens next Barbara I mean my suggestion is it seems like you need a document for transition support mainly you\u0027re interested in transition support of tunneling ipv4 over ipv6 right so I mean you could have transition support that includes six Rd or not I really don\u0027t care I think you might actually be more powerful with your just focus on your tunneling stuff oh so you mean basically IP before us a service hmm you mean I you could if you want to call it that way "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:05",
    "text": "I think of it more as tunneling ipv4 over ipv6 but okay okay um I don\u0027t know that you necessarily have to touch 7080 for I mean I could understand I guess why you would want to my concern is that every time we change these darned RFC numbers it\u0027s you know just just for the sake of hey we want to change a word okay we\u0027re going to update the RFC number that\u0027s just really annoying I don\u0027t think 70 84 is broken you know if we\u0027ve got I mean ultimately what 70 84 led to is the CEO outer certification stuff which does not test the transition technologies because they are only should it does test the soul max RT which you know every time you talk I realize your slides expressed it purely as taking things out of 70 84 but when you talk about rolling back to 60 and whatever that number was that just really ye against me um because I know what you mean I I don\u0027t want to take all right thanks it\u0027s a quick way to say that but you\u0027re right it\u0027s it\u0027s right may be confused say that um okay so anyway those are just my thoughts that I really wish you would just focus on maybe having a document for tunneling ipv4 over ipv6 in here are the ways and I looked at you know the new RFC 80 26 that you were mentioning and it and probably include that along with it you know that might be valuable and that\u0027s something to think about sir prices no more comments I\u0027m not sure based on that input that we have an output we can make the pool here if the people really understand understood my favorite slides or go to the least Tim one issue so I understand you guys are basically just suggesting no other changes other than the transition mechanisms to 70 84 is that true I mean there are there are some others see if we make a game to the first dislike yeah but the net support yeah well okay so whole net supporters it should maybe is Berber points out right we don\u0027t I don\u0027t see anyone ever coming to me asking for testing of transition mechanisms and low so that\u0027s due to their dependent on the individual service provider and how they\u0027re doing it so there\u0027s no generic stuff for that but the only other thing I would add here and something that we might want to talk about as a group is BC p-38 got downgraded between sixty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:08",
    "text": "2:04 and seventy eighty four and that might be something that we might want to talk about going back to making that a must for spoofing and that might be interesting that is what he said but in this case I\u0027m talking about there\u0027s literally one sentence s 2 if you read there\u0027s a little mode in there that said this was a must in 62 oh four but we backed it up to us should I think BC p38 might be important especially with malware these attacks that are going on it might be something to actually talk about if that\u0027s what we want to that\u0027s a change that might be worth doing at the rest of the stuff you know H NCP is a should I think vendors are going to do that when they want to do it I don\u0027t think this document is going to change CP work vendors implementing remember I I think I I I must remember the reason for this update that I explained it in Chicago and I think the consensus was was overwhelming is because RFC 1784 has support only for 6:30 and these light there are many small and medium is piece which go to the market and cannot get the right CP which the proper support that they need for today transition mechanism so that\u0027s the real important part for me yeah update this document I understand that but I got to be completely honest we listed 6 Rd and all the TS light and not a whole lot of guys implemented putting that in the 7080 for document is not going to change those routers what\u0027s going to change in the service providers having to tell them well yeah that\u0027s been our experience up till this point I mean I\u0027m not saying it won\u0027t change but up till now that hasn\u0027t made a difference I think I\u0027m definitely in line with barber and I think it should be a separate transition document that doesn\u0027t touch 70 84 I think there are things in seventy eighty four people want to touch them the reality reality is that if you look at the products in the market they have support for six survey and the slide which is what is specified in seventy eighty four I guess I disagree with you a little bit there I I would say the stuff that we\u0027ve seen at the lab is all over the map when it comes to transition mechanisms and in particular what gets sold off the shelf right it\u0027s very different coming from a service provider right we\u0027re not talking about those guys we\u0027re talking about the ones that you buy off a shelf it is the wild wild west of just about anything so I I don\u0027t think this documents going to change that so I II III think I\u0027m also with agree with barber here is that if we\u0027re going to put in a lot of transition mechanism it would be good to call that document transition mechanisms for ipv4 as a service so on a residential CP or something because it it then it would be would have been it nice to take his light out of 78 before but I don\u0027t think we should touch it because of that but it would mean all these new transition mechanism ago into "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:08",
    "text": "a separate document it can focus on that and people who who need that can go with these two documents as as a pair and say look III read this and I think it would be a lot easier for you to progress this draft if the focus is on that and you\u0027re not touching other documents because then you\u0027re opening Pandora\u0027s box and you know all kinds of things pop out and they want to discuss and and change the song so I think it would be a more focused draft on day two that I didn\u0027t do we okay so that would never okay so I think again and I think you got the outcome there yeah so sushi blue sheet swing who has the blue sheets will they ransom for blue sheets you\u0027ll take okay so would that word adjourned I guess okay thank you "
  }
]