[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:52",
    "text": "hey Donald hey how\u0027s things good good [Applause] yeah [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "yeah [Music] [Music] Oh gang less busy let\u0027s get it started wanna follow order I can tweet you hello folks it is now five minutes after more than five minutes after these scheduled start time so we are beginning the session I\u0027m Joel Halperin this is Jim discharge where the chairs are thanks to Thomas "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:06",
    "text": "rahi who will be officially our secretary but it\u0027s been taking notes eggnog nerves who\u0027s also taking notes I sorry I\u0027m probably mangled your last name again Ignasi bad at that and welcome everyone we have a bunch of items to present and then as we said on the list time for open discussion of what the thing is people believe the working group needs to work on because nsh is going to go to our ad very shortly there\u0027s like one more item to fix on that the note well is here you should know the note well note it well everything\u0027s a contribution well we\u0027ll go through the agenda SFC OAM got a series of presentations Carlos is gonna start by giving us an overview of where the framework document stands and then there are a number of other documents Adrian will then talk to us about the next protocol nun or convent draft there\u0027s a presentation on dynamic service chain in direction and then we\u0027ll be on the reach our Turing and other maybe topics that are already in the Charter but we haven\u0027t done whatever you guys feel needs to be done on what we\u0027ll probably do is use the left hand mic to introduce topics no my right hand mic your left hand mic and the other mic for any follow-ups on a topic that somebody wants to bring up so that we make sure we discuss one before we move on to the next agenda comments will we move on there\u0027s the agenda in more detail okay Carlos hello carlos pignataro Cisco Systems I\u0027m going to talk briefly about SFC OAM and essentially were we being where we are on the forward-looking plan on what we intend to do with Om om in this working group has been a topic that was interesting because of because of two somewhat opposing forces the first force was that there\u0027s a lot of people in customer requirements that are fairly fundamental on OAM and what it really means to have om on an SF see we had a lot of early discussions we said you know going all the way up to the application is out of scope we need to actually test and do various OEM functions on the service function path themselves on the other hand side there has not been too much of a deliberate focus on it so even though we said as a working group this is something important critical we spend our time and cycles on the architecture then follow along with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:07",
    "text": "the NSA and a number of odd John documents like Joe was describing we\u0027re at the point in which the NSA chwe document is getting ready to be sent to alia and because of that or in preparation of that nature said okay so let\u0027s be intentional about looking at OAM again so we looked at the landscape of different OAM documents and functions and we had one document which is the OEM framework at the time we adopted the documents a working group and the main reason for that was because we wanted without necessarily have the destruction of a lot of protocol specifics and bits and bytes we wanted to have a single place that consolidate the overall oh I am thinking before diving into okay we\u0027re going to do these for performance management we\u0027re gonna do this for trace frog we\u0027re gonna do this for whatever else so the time has come now to actually look at that document again and that\u0027s something that we did in the past month and a half order about we consolidated that document was actually started by some Aldrin some Aldrin on the very very initial version of draft Aldrin SFC OEM framework he laid out exactly that the framework of you know copying the architecture and the different orientations that need to happen we took on that same document we did all the editorial updates that were needed but we also added in a new section which is you know the main topic that I wanted to talk today and that main section is actually a listing of the currently existing or or within scope or you know that were looking at om tools within SFC and I\u0027m not sure I know people are looking there but I don\u0027t have any slides so I wasn\u0027t sure if there was something interesting being projected I know so so anyway be the the idea right now is to take that at the anchor point for the OEM conversation we have the framework the functions and then the protocols that we\u0027re evaluating all of those are you know listed and in particular we all saw these at the very bottom of the document a table mapping om functions to AM protocols right so we have a section on the functions that are important we have a section on the protocols and we have a matrix that is essentially correlating one to the other the document is being restarted right now is in revision tool after being dormant for some time so they they plea the request "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:09",
    "text": "is for people to look at it not only the differences from the previous version but rather look at it as a whole because the forward-looking plan is to use that as a anchor point for om and from there potentially how we do some additional protocol specifics that document is not defined in protocol is laying out the framework on SFC the functions unavailable existing protocols so with that I\u0027ll take questions okay I just want to ask cheers because there is a Q\u0026A section allocated at the end of all presentations so would you suggest hold questions to the that part or use this time we should take questions specific to the framework should probably go now okay then I was going to point out it will take all the questions on all of your presentations at the end of all of yours thank framework right now okay Greg Mirsky is it e I have one concern about their turn this document is taking the document in scope states that specific protocols and mechanisms are outside of the scope of this document and even though it\u0027s already been agreed by the working group of the scope of the document we now have some discussion of specific protocols getting into the document so I think that the gap analysis section and the new section should be removed from the document thank you um I don\u0027t remember by heart that sentence that we\u0027re not going to talk about protocols is it released for us as a working group to define that additional section is intended to be an Abe and not a structure is intended to be an inventory of existing capability so that you know when we looked at the document being dormant after a while we\u0027ll realize that it was a little bit fluffy and content less and you know one thing that we\u0027re trying to steer away from is to have a framework that talks about a framework and requirements of a framework of the architecture you know we want to bring it to reality and you know that is the main intent of you know doing an inventory of protocols that said the document is not defining protocols is now making decisions about what protocol to use for which case is is listing an inventory okay I I think that and we had "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:09",
    "text": "the discussion and part of discussion of Anna sage document and I think that we agreed that there is a parent there is immediate need to give a clear definition of what am packet is and what am packet is not so I think that if we extend the scope of the document that will take us much longer to get this definition that we can standardize and agree on and keep on working so I would encourage ah keep the scope as being originally defined and concentrate on solving immediate need of the working group so and keep the discussion of benefits of these are that specific protocol and mechanism outside of this document thank you for the comment so two quick follow-ups to that the first one is that Greg when you talk about an oem packet you\u0027re making a set of assumptions and you know part of the assumption is that there\u0027s a new OEM packet for SFC when you\u0027re talking on the second part of your comment about focusing on what we need we time-to-market and i\u0027m paraphrasing you know let\u0027s not try to reinvent let\u0027s actually look what\u0027s out there and what helps us all each problem I don\u0027t think the work of the OEM framework is not intended to define the OEM packet because there may not be such a thing okay again my mind might okay my view is that if we start listing existing or upcoming solutions in this document this document will never see any end because it will be never ending story we can always comment and we need to move on this is coming out of Greg\u0027s trying to next several presentations yeah Waldron if we don\u0027t refer what exactly is there and how we going to use it it\u0027s there is no way you can actually reference and show that okay things are what exactly being asked and we have to do that whether we are not prescribing a solution here you\u0027re just describing saying that what is out there and if at all we need a new definition of an OEM or packet feel free to propose a solution if you don\u0027t need it that\u0027s also good okay even it comes from my time I think it\u0027s a task of offers of their specific solutions and protocols are to explain what they are solving in how they\u0027re solving that goes to the specific drafts not in this draft how\u0027d they do that this is just referencing as a FII saying that these are the solutions which are already in existence within the IETF inform crafts just going alright then the net "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:14",
    "text": "they take away from my site as editing the document is that we want to move forward with this we don\u0027t want to lose cycles with this with a lot of discussion so we really invite comments review on the list thank you we can take that to the list the Craig Anton you need to come up now because we have a series of more specifically on presentations and they\u0027re going to be going back and forth I don\u0027t know what the exact who\u0027s presenting which thing but they know that and I have all of your presentations queued up okay okay so the multi-layer or a massive C networks let\u0027s go next so again this is an update and I don\u0027t give the scope of their current document so if somebody has some questions feel free as we indicated we will make series of presentations and then there will be a Q\u0026A session section so we look at let\u0027s obscene or a task of SFC om as a multi-layer om whereas we have SSP om and then we have SF o om and the point of view is that the SSP its end to end and s FF to SF it\u0027s a local om matter that can be queried and explored and reported to the clearer so just would not read their list now it\u0027s a part of their materials and you can find in a document as well where should I point it okay use the verbal advance mechanism okay so that\u0027s the demonstration is that so SFF form layer one and SF\u0027s they\u0027ve for later to in a multi-layer as if coem model and let\u0027s go necks so the first and foremost probably will be used to is well-known echo request echo reply and when we look at it is that we look at that it must have certain information included one of them it has to have SFC source TV so the identity of their note "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:16",
    "text": "that generated their echo request so that echo reply can be properly send and [Music] there needs to be allocated a unity port for the sender are to listen to and receive the echo replies so that\u0027s a two updates being added to the document with appropriate Ayana consideration next please so we will continue working in this document and appreciate your reviews comments suggestions and maybe not in this time but it\u0027s something I asked for working group reduction okay next presentation questions on document later or now later we\u0027re gonna do my okay good okay good afternoon you need to pull the mic down okay okay thank you and Ana for affording two slices about her SFC pass in SF c om and the first is return pass in a subsea I know we are discussed we are discussing about sfk direction in Minister right now but in this science we are assuming that as a key i as a PID is the direction next as we know that om has foremost to control the parts of echo reply why is it do not reply and the second is to reply why our ipv4 and ipv6 UDP package and the third is wire application level control channel and the last is repair wise best fat pass and this last is is going to specify the as FC as a co am in reply west as flat pass and we want to specify us SF p as the return path of the SF c om echo reply for this requirement one use case is for bi-directional SFC and reverse as a key is indicated in echo request and so that s FC can be checked in both direction and forward reaction and reverse direction next tooth to specify our reverse direct and reverse "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:18",
    "text": "pass in as I said wemmick reply we define a new TR v we need to reply service function here we the theory is in echo request indicates the specified return SFP and the following part are foreign figure is the permit of the Uglies theory and the Tioga contains the reply past reprise service function pass when one part of it is the prior service past identifier and the other is services servicing in death and both of them is used for reverse reverse the echo reply fording next here\u0027s the operation of the SFC OEM with specified return pass first we should set the value of replay mode to the repair wow specified past and include SFC reply past year we that is read defied English charge in the echo request message the SF key ID England reply past here we should build identify our return pass and the Nestor once the once the I want to reply the echo reply and the echo reply should be used as a PID and si as it a message a header and you will return as a P count find company find the alcohol reply shouldn\u0027t include replies of key and as not be found in written code and if the repair path theory is not provided in echo request with the repair well specified past and echo reply should include the repository is missing in occur in the a career applying written code yes and that\u0027s the main content of the slides any comments and questions are welcome yes this year the last second and slash about as a tip has next yeah first we want to have some background review but the SFC we know that SFC is a chain with a serious order service functions that mean the order of sales function is very important and SMC or M is operation administration and the maintenance for service function Cheney and we already have all overlay OEM that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:20",
    "text": "it can be used as as one of the solution for SEO and it is in Pandorum and our solution is based on this om Russian and the past consistence is that is that areas SFO the package transmitted is consistent with as a cig privity that we want to check with the past consistency here with if I see um Latin is the consistency um that is used to be used checker the past consistency I mean the order of the order of the SS as efforts in SFC next this is the comm messages we defined in Java and there are two kinds of chapter why is the say om request and and eonni is z1 reply and comm request is in the SFP consistency echo request it should be sent from the ingress of the SLP and forwarded by every ingredient as ffo and therefore at seorim reply SFP consistent accurate prepare every SFF for is receiving and see one request should not not only well for what the comm request but on but also stand back on comm reply the serum the serum reply message contains the information of SFO that is connected the true the SFF and just last night previously yes and the figure in this class is about the formation of the sub heavy as SF a SF information and there are some information about SF such as a self or type as therefore as service index and as I have I I did hyper for example ipv4 or ipv6 or marriages etc and the last is as having identifiers used to identify each each SF next here\u0027s the seorim operation from this video we can see that once once the ingress of the SS he sent out our comm or request every intermediate SF in this as a key should forward the seolin request forward to is next s FF and in addition to that action it or it also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:21",
    "text": "shouldn\u0027t send out serum reply to send out a serum repair back serum replying contains the SF information letter the SF are connecting from this figure we can see that with with peering the comm reply one and C from SF f 1 and CM reply from as ever to etc we can get the data as SF p is is contained as F 1 as an sf2 as ever three and as for that\u0027s the pass of the Army\u0027s SLPA LED we checked next yes that\u0027s the main current content on the job any comments and questions are welcome thank you okay so yeah we can go to the next slide so what we\u0027re proposing we are proposing we\u0027re describing how our alternate marking method can be used to measure packet loss delay and delay variation and mean to mean delay in SFC proposal is to allocate two of reserve bits in a nsh basic header and refer to them as a mark field and one of the bit flags will be used for single mark method another won\u0027t be used for double mark method we can go next so just briefly single mark method is based on creating a batches of similarly marked packets our data packets in the flow and there are two methods to do the marking one could be based on the number of packets so switching or reversing their single mark every N packets another could be on on a time time is more preferred technology because even though it\u0027s susceptible to take it to us and out of order delivery it still enables us to do a pretty lightweight average delay variation calculation so basically arrival time being calculated at each node and then divided by the number of packets in the batch does giving us average the name I\u0027ll attack next with the double mark method what\u0027s used is that the second mark D beat in the mark field used to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:23",
    "text": "create timed packets that can easily be identified in a batch so you can imagine if we say that this batch has a color so we\u0027re switching colors let\u0027s say red and balloon and in between red or blue will signify we\u0027ll just identify the packet that will be very easy to do our timing and then our this information can be collected of out-of-band from the nodes to correlation and then calculation of very precise inaccurate delay and delay variation so we can go to the next slide there are advantage of this performance measurement with alternate marking method is that it can be easily instantiated and to end and what we envision that classifier will be doing marking and in this case as v 3 will do the measurement but if we notice if operator notice performance degradation then the method can be activated on each of transit entities that part of this SFC whether it\u0027s s FF or SF so you can go next question Greg I\u0027ve given the so I\u0027ll okay all right okay and yes I want to mention that in IBM working group there are some well we do have discussion on new marking methods that might not require too Phil I was going to ask is why don\u0027t you make it and in a an enumerator rather than a bit field because it\u0027s a precious by the look of it oh you mean so the field which is okay to switch probably because I think slowly okay this last you\u0027d want to have a discussion about the interworking of SSD and its underlying network first the way I want to state my questions about the SSC at present "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:24",
    "text": "SFC is based on they are transmitted over an overlay network we can see that in NSS chapter section 7 but we take Geneva as an example u.s. FF and the only are correlated I mean he knows how to encapsulate the message packet with an overlay header and the forward to forward it shouldn\u0027t read and Vee so that\u0027s it there\u0027s no problem at all but if the full situation of SF and MBE these two functions are splitted there are some problem that only you don\u0027t know how to forward the message package to write as f sorry because it doesn\u0027t know which and the e is is it\u0027s a next hop this means the figure in these lines is the example of of the problem and I\u0027m a year and as SFF years is pretty separated and as F s FF 1 in this figure and no stiffness hope is s FF 2 according to its as a key ID but it connected it\u0027s connecting to M be only one and only one doesn\u0027t know its next hope is a means to listen to a little problem of s FF anime years separated next so for this problem we propose to our message that first specify how to add a message for an original package which is not specified in each chapter right now when a - header how to encapsulate the original packet including IP header or is not had this is suitable for SFF and a mean-spirited and next one we propose is well as ff5 the next whore next hope in SFC issued fabulous hope adjust according to it as a PID in sfz header of the packet and then for replace the destination destination adjust true next hope adjust in up header or is not harder there\u0027s the video as an example we also take the SF f1az as an example the packet list rule to package is a one is forward to as everyone and another ISM for water from as ff1 and for only only II 1 2 as FF 1 and the left and SH "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:24",
    "text": "packet destination adjust should be SF 1 and after the process of SF 1 and as ff12 only one the package as everyone should a change in the package destination adjust to SF 2 because as f2 is Nestor\u0027s is next hope so that MBE could know how to forward the message packet and encapsulated a packet to Omega 2 yes okay that\u0027s situation that\u0027s the problem I am under my proposal to state thank you I think that now we\u0027re ready to take questions questions on any of those presentations I\u0027ll happily bring back bring up whichever presentation is needed looks like you were first Sam Waldron how do you ensure the Orion pocket doesn\u0027t macaron with herself well that\u0027s basically in the first presentation in our multi model is that OAM again here\u0027s the question is what do we understand is Orion tech if we understand or am packet as 77 99 the packet is specifically constructed for the test purposes and generated in the sec domain and consumed an SMC the main then our proposal is that end-to-end om in SF c is done on SFP so classifier and SFX how do you know each of the SF support your om encapsulation again the intention is that the packet doesn\u0027t go to SF the packet traverses SF s and s FF to SF is a local it\u0027s a different layer of OEM and how it works it works based on mapping and then asset can be argumented to indicate to s FF what type of OM in supports so in your layering multi layering draft what you\u0027re saying is you\u0027re pretty much measuring between a surface nothing to do with yourself again with active am yes with the proposal of using alternate marking method you don\u0027t have to do that because you\u0027re using an SH header to mark data packets and you can do a performance measurement that involves not only SS but functions as well so I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:26",
    "text": "still confused if you are sending a packet which travels through yourselves it has to traverse through yourselves correct know it in touch itself as it can basically they\u0027re active om that goes as a vom doesn\u0027t have to touch a cell because you can go SFX and if you have requests for information as indicated in the presentation that thing done on consistency so this information can be obtained from a set by SFF and reported back to their sensei in other words you\u0027re not actually testing this of see well used in reconstructing you reconstructing information on SFC because yes I agree with you there is a problem of functionality what is supported by a set there was an earlier at least in an earlier version of the framework document we were very clear that we were not attempting to test the functionality of the service functions because no way in packet can\u0027t test the functionality I\u0027m absolutely clear on that statement but my understanding is if you\u0027re sending a packet it is traversing through yourselves or not well we\u0027re gonna have to define the handling of the OM packet that\u0027s our job outside of the NSH document so I\u0027m saying for other people ask questions too please okay Stuart I kind of repeat the question I had before you\u0027ve got only a few bits and you seem to be only using one Oh at doing one OAM measurement in a packet if you made it any numerator one two three four five six seven you would be less likely to run out of bits than having one bit of function it\u0027s just as hardware friendly no again um okay there are some ideas about how not to run out of bits in how not to ask for bit function the marking method is the method of identifying the packet that needs to be used for measurement what type of measurement can be context of measurement can be set out-of-band I just I just think you might end up with another sort of measurement that you want to take that mutually exclusive and so being frugal with the bits would be a wise thing yeah but thank you for a suggestion and we\u0027ll discuss it China Telecom and deployment SFC we think the management is can be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:26",
    "text": "divided into three parts and the underlay network or management and [Music] application monitor and the layer many mate so in the front two parts we have many choose to manager the these two parts but in the SFF management we have no our few tools to manage so we think it\u0027s very important to discuss the sfm and mentoring group so my suggestion is we should consider the SFC pro se in the SSP as a layer management because the SFC pro se is different from the common as if it\u0027s a connector to the traditional network and the traditional application so we think it can be considered in the chapter thank you it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s very helpful very interesting proposal and I would like to have some more discussion about it thank you Wow so following up Sam\u0027s question and please tell me I wasn\u0027t listening if I miss something here it sounded like the proposal was that we would trace through an SF c s FF by s FF and not traced to see whether a specific SF had been called in and that worries me when SF\u0027s can be remote from s FF s so if there tunnel attached that the the current the last text we saw was that monitoring of the connection between the s FF and the SF is viewed as a separate problem it needs to take place if there is immune as o a.m. packets is not a way to do so I do not mean monitoring the connection I mean monitoring which SF is at the end of the connection so it\u0027s not enough to tres trust and s FF that oh I\u0027ve sent the packet to an SF it\u0027s not even enough to trust that the tunnel that the package has gone onto is coherent what you actually need to know is is the SF at the end the SF I thought was a yeah okay yes it\u0027s it\u0027s a variant question and in a consistency or a.m. draft what we proposing is that our the query the echo request that comes to SF f triggers some mechanism to query SF f the query mapped SF that belongs to this SF c and then report it to the query but it\u0027s not necessarily the same packet that has to traverse as a theft yourself so I asked "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:28",
    "text": "only do you trust the SFF to tell the truth ah well I think that the whole thing of or a.m. is based on certain assumptions Jim just pointed out to me the other path is the in ban in situ o a.m. approach which does go through these the service functions but that\u0027s a those are a different set of tools these these are a set of tools they are suggesting not the only tools that we that we as a working group are allowed to consider in fact one of the things have to here in just a few minutes but we got two more presentations first is what other L AM work do people think we need to do but there was another question here yeah it\u0027s currently I\u0027m actually just I had one comment but I want to answer that one - um so I think there\u0027s also the interface between FFF and SF in this case there might be issue with low balancing right you may have multiple SF instances right that you have to deal with so the whole om of confirming your service path or as I\u0027ve see in this case fights have to take that into account as well but else is more of a comment anyways I came for a different question was for Kings presentation I was mentioned that we don\u0027t have Ethernet made it which I mean I thought we do support Ethernet benefit so I know you said there\u0027s IP and Ethernet but maybe IP we don\u0027t but Ethernet I thought we do so I don\u0027t know if that\u0027s a welcome missed let\u0027s be clear we\u0027re not mandating any transports but it is expected that people will be using IP as a transport will be using Ethernet as a transport will be using MPLS as a transport I\u0027ll be using via the X LAN GRE the list goes on we\u0027re not mandating any of them that\u0027s right yeah by the issue and the nvd network virtual overlaying issue is a somewhat more complicated issue and since you\u0027ve asked let me comment that the real key there is the service the SFF sees is an Ethernet service it\u0027s going to address things from the Ethernet perspective that\u0027s all we as an SF see working group can deal with the question of how and nve delivers and receives an Ethernet frame delivers an Ethernet frame that\u0027s the network virtualization overlays problem not that\u0027s delivering an Ethernet service not necess aproblem so from SF C\u0027s perspective the service the transport that the SFF sees is whatever service the overlay provides when the overlay is co-located then the SFF may be aware of the of the overlay and be working more closely with it but otherwise it just uses the overlay as every other entity the overlay and that works it creates more layers of overlay but it still works so there\u0027s different kinds of assumptions people make some people assume the SFF will be closely coupled with the NVE in which case you can get one kind of behavior and as you validly point out it does not have to be closely coupled in which case the SFF simply works in terms of whatever the service "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:30",
    "text": "provided by the overlay is which may be an Ethernet service and it then it\u0027s C NS H over Ethernet right I want to get too long into it but I thought things point if I was trying to understand it too but if it\u0027s going over native IP I think that\u0027s maybe an issue right so because we like you said we\u0027re going over any overlay right if it\u0027s your year NSHE p vs 9 GP year or Ethernet that\u0027s all supported by thing going over a native IP I don\u0027t think we support that and I\u0027m not sure that was your point but anyways I can pick that offline okay Adrian sorry just for the note takers please state your name very clearly [Music] ok so I believe I have just five minutes to run through slides and then we have some discussion time for reference I was going to call this draft feral SFC superfluity but I thought that would be rude so the collective noun for nuns is superfluity next slide so what\u0027s going on what we know about metadata is its carried in the N SH and that we insert the NS h between the forwarding header and the payload packet so metadata can be sent whenever there is user data traffic and and the question I was asking myself is what happens if there is currently no user data packet in hand in other words there is no packet going down the SFC but I want to push metadata I want to program if you like the SFC what\u0027s the metadata well what if the metadata I have which I guess is a type 2 is too big to fit into the packet for some MTU reason or just because it\u0027s a lot of metadata so next slide what we also know is that there\u0027s the next protocol field and it lives in the pale it lives in the NS H and it identifies what comes after the NS h including metadata and the NS h document sorry I wrote the slides before the last revision includes v4 v6 Ethernet MPLS and NS h4 recursion so our proposal here is to say let\u0027s use zero to mean none and it\u0027s protocol is none it means there is an NS H but there is no user data following the NS H and this gives us the opportunity to send packets containing metadata but no user data so we can push metadata around the network without having to wait for a packet and it\u0027s slided what happened I work what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:31",
    "text": "happened is we used one well-known operating system instead of another well-known operation system if I could dance I would at this point just to keep you entertained I could sell you a book of fairy stories and about that right use cases use cases of course are not limited to my imaginations there anything you want to do but I think there are a couple of things metadata may apply apply to a whole SFC so it\u0027s something you push through and say any packet on this SFC now here is the metadata all you might push it through for a flow that\u0027s on NSF C where a flow is probably defined by the five tuple so today you would say I wait for a packet and user data packet and I\u0027ll I\u0027ll attach the metadata what this allows you to do is just send it when you\u0027re ready to send it and this is similar to some proposed and I think meds control plain draft talks about this where you would install metadata out-of-band using some management protocol or on Netcom for or whatever to push metadata so this is pushing it horizontally rather than pushing it from a controller it also allows you to communicate between SF is so they can coordinate with each other which I think quite often they need to do especially in the security world or it allows you to build a control and management channel through your service function overlay and obviously if I mention our a.m. then we can all start throwing food so I won\u0027t mention OAM at all not even slightly what is specifically not a use case I believe is per packet metadata and by that I mean metadata that it might be computed on a packet somewhere in the network applies to that packet only and then the next packet along uses different metadata so for example a hash it falls into that category and that if you had a set of pre-installed metadata\u0027s like a whole field at the table then you could you could use this approach with by by putting an index in but personally I wouldn\u0027t go there and it slide I will come let me just so something we discovered was maybe unclear in the nsh document was how you process an unknown next protocol so we thought we should clarify that in this document whether that gets ripped out and put somewhere else doesn\u0027t really bother me but it needs to be written somewhere so what we think is s FF s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:34",
    "text": "forward packets even if they don\u0027t understand what the next protocol is because they don\u0027t look into those fields SFC proxies are responsible for only delivering packets that there I serve eyes know how to handle so they would drop the packets if they don\u0027t understand the next protocol and SFI is that our SFC aware would be would it fall into the same category except possibly you could configure them to say if you don\u0027t know what the next protocol means just return the packet to the SFF but I think that\u0027s unwise especially in Security implementation so I would expect them to drop the packets reclassify as similarly I would expect them to drop packets because reclassification is about knowing about the payload and if you don\u0027t understand the next protocol you don\u0027t understand the payload right discuss I\u0027m not gonna stand up here when you discuss it so I wanted to comment on that loss like they are doing on the SFF wouldn\u0027t you say that if the SFF piece is the last SFF then potentially the next protocol is important if it\u0027s doing decline ah you have a very good point yes if you strip the header and forward and you don\u0027t know how to forward payload then you had probably better not forward the questions for me should be distinguished from Christians from discussion of in Bamberg Ghana which when you said you don\u0027t want to mention Oh am with this we are following exactly the service topology and when you started presenting that that was the first use case that I had in mind yeah to you I say yeah no shit am is a use case I have in mind but I also am aware that the working group may want to come to a decision on how to address am collectively rather than have it dictated by me maybe Carlton sisqó could you please go but I think it\u0027s one slide here to a use cases so first I find this very useful I have a question on the first bullet Adrienne when you say press FCM per-flow metadata I\u0027m not sure you understand what you mean by per flow you could potentially have multiple payload level flows so you can SFP that you\u0027re not going to be able to distinguish unless you have a payload have a payload where are you getting flow right so so the question could be how do I understand which flow this metadata applies to when it\u0027s coming along without news of data and the answer is you need to put some "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:34",
    "text": "information in the packet that indicates it okay so there\u0027s a no AM packet it\u0027s drop method so there\u0027s some metadata packet it\u0027s got metadata in its intended to apply just to a sub flow on the SFC you had better put the identification of that sub oh you have the flow specification as a piece of metadata yes sir thank you as to why because we\u0027re on that bullet on I just do you actually mean per SFC or do you mean / SF P P but it certainly I think the answer is yes I\u0027d certainly mean one or the other yeah yeah yeah David Olsen standby you mentioned that it\u0027s not well-defined how the as of proxies and I guess SF\u0027s for word unknown do you think we should define how they should forward the none so that they for example an SF proxy will forward the packet instead of drop it yes and when I first wrote this document there was a hope that the NS h Draft would pop out soon and I believe they still I hope that the NS hjf will pop out soon and I don\u0027t want that discussion just to slow down the NS age but you needs to be documented so I don\u0027t mind where it\u0027s documented yes it should be documented yeah s what I\u0027m suggesting that the drop is wrong perhaps for it some of the use cases then that is a good discussion to have and my view is that drop is drop is right it\u0027s in beer and fight in that order Greg mercy City okay so when you\u0027re gonna open the floodgates and let that help break loose give us another two minutes so we can finish this presentation and then move on Wow Leon I know my name is hard to spell that L eun-ji and spell it out so my question here is passion of flow metadata is that um how would the SFF you know today you have multiple instance set at a hot possibly right so we can low balance it right through based on a flow information right which is the user data in this case there\u0027s no you Lydia there\u0027s only metadata nsh metadata which is bypassed by your s FF right basically so I don\u0027t quite understand the details of how you support per flow metadata in this case so in the load balancing case in specifically so so the load balancing case a an s FF when it sees a packet a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:37",
    "text": "normal user data packet is picking between a number of SF is to load berminat if there is state that needs to be installed then that state needs to go everywhere or the load balancing has to be aware that yeah if I mentioned two things right I put it differently okay the way the use cases will use the the next protocol none will have to be documented in individual drafts it isn\u0027t nothing this document isn\u0027t going to tell you how to send metadata to everybody that will automatically be understood because until you\u0027re describing the use of it and what you\u0027re gonna ship there\u0027s no point so the use cases are illustrative they\u0027re not fully specified and let\u0027s not get hung up on trying to elaborate on all of the things for example I don\u0027t think we\u0027re gonna require that SF F\u0027s be prepared to look for a flow TLV if next protocol is none because ffs ffs\u0027 generally ignore next protocol but I think I think you might make when you\u0027re making absolutely good point okay that if you have load balancing among SF eyes that are some in some ways stateful you have a choice you either install the state everywhere or you put that state on every packet so III mean I don\u0027t think so I think there\u0027s stateless and staple both cases happening right I think right now that the keep on such is in the user requires stay for a stateless you\u0027re looking at the user data to do a balancing your hashing or you to maintaining states right this requires looking into the metadata as a SFF function so I just wanna make sure that that\u0027s brought up and you know we can talk more in details but I think it will break so call your resisting SFF today which is not supporting multiple instances at a service out that\u0027s a comment yeah okay okay we now move to the next phase of no we have one more presentation I\u0027m very sorry we are a little bit behind schedule but we have one more presentation I believe Debashish is presenting there you are hello everybody I\u0027m Debashish podcaster and I will go through this use case so before starting the motivation so as we see today like a lot of this 5g applications and with them comes the low latency requirements are forcing a lot of this service providers to push functions as well as network functions towards the edge of the network for example mobile edge computing so with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:38",
    "text": "this this handling of user mobility and also the non-deterministic availability of compute and storage resources is extremely challenging at the edge of the network as well as within the network so what it requires is a very dynamic and fast switching of service path between service functions which is also known as this service in direction if we move on to the next slide please so in SFC the way service indirection is handled is using this nsh control plane protocol where we have the service path identifier and their service index so basically by changing this service path identifier and the service index service in direction or service like the path is changed and typically at a particular node as a packet arrives the policy manager is contacted the current classification is validated and if it is not valid it is called the process is called true declassification which goes ahead and changes the SPI and then it is forwarded back to the forwarder SFF if we go to the next slide please now in order to improve this indirection function like we agree that this indirection mechanism in SFC through this classification definitely can handle but it may not be suitable for this dynamic indirection so this in this use case the proposed SLR service form it kind of provides an additional method to handle dynamic in direction of service request without completely relying on the reclassification mechanism so we see it like initially those two techniques can be combined but as well as this whole SLR function can also act independently to provide dynamic service in direction so this proposes our function what it does is typically decouples the service consumer and the service endpoint and some of the desired features in terms of like very fast switching from the consumer to the service endpoint and it not only relies on layer 3 protocols or layer 2 approaches like DNS you also can use direct path mobility avoiding the use of anchor points as we see today and also in direct service requests directly at the network level and new methods for forwarding such as path based forwarding and direct path routing so this is the the proposed s error function which is inserted between the consumer and the service provider which tries to decouple the the service forwarding and which which basically provides the complete flexibility and it also shows the case "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:38",
    "text": "where a cerrar is basic is acting independently between the consumer and the service provider if we go to the next slide please so just to get into little bit details about this this kind of deployment where the asari is acting individually so we have a scenario where a service consumer is basically is and the service provider SC and SP and we have our single SC being serviced by for example multiple or more than one service providers or say n virtual instances so we are assuming that a service consumer or SC is changed to a service provider one first and then if we need to explicitly reclassify towards SP n with some out-of-band decision about which end to pick now with the introduction of SR as we decouples the consumer and the provider now single se can be connected to multiple service provider and what we see that with this kind of the requirements we assume that it may not require a little ossification and based on instantaneous decision it can switch the traffic flow to any of the airspace next slide please so so that\u0027s the kind of the use case but we we proposed here so the idea is to collect feedback from the group and we also continue extending the use case with more details and requirements and we also plan to work on this use case and the solution in our H 2020 flame project with experience with experiments planned for early 2018 and beyond thank you any questions ok thanks thank you before we move on can whoever has the blue sheets stick their hand up and if anybody hasn\u0027t signed them can they stick their hand up and could you pass them on ok so now it\u0027s discussion sorry now it\u0027s up it\u0027s working group members bringing up items that they would like to see the working group discuss and yes Greg you can bring up whatever L am issues you want but you\u0027re not the only one but I\u0027d like to do is each topic gets brought up and then there\u0027s discussion of the topic so Carlos you don\u0027t bring up a topic over there because otherwise we\u0027ll get really confused they don\u0027t want people shuffling a line so go ahead tom thomas rahimova so I want to bring up the issue of M D type 1 originally the way n SH was defined was with empty type 1 as kind of an opaque metadata that can be used for anything and then a few drafts came up that defined different formats from D type one some of them have expired and actually I don\u0027t know what\u0027s going on with those some of them are still there on the documents page of SF "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:39",
    "text": "c so one way to go would be to not to adopt any of these these documents just to leave MD type one up to the operator or up to the vendor or whatever another way would be to choose a subset of these MD type one formats and to say okay we\u0027re going to adopt these other solutions maybe up to the operator or up to the vendors or whatever and another way would be to say okay we have we\u0027re going to have a single document that is going to define all the MD type one formats that we\u0027re going to support and other MD type one formats are currently not supported so I don\u0027t know the I think these are all the possible options maybe there are intermediate options but I think it\u0027s important to decide which where we\u0027re going because right now it\u0027s not very clear what is going on with these different proposals whether they will ever be adopted or whatever you\u0027re specifically concerned on MD type one just to clarify right yes because I think in a MD type two there is at least one document that was adopted yeah we know what\u0027s going on with that yeah okay okay yeah I think that\u0027s we we have discussed this point during the last ITI interim meeting and the at least the consensus we reached among the participant of the entry meeting that it is valuable to document the MD type one as informational RFC and the authors of the document are invited to come to the working group and proceed easily with the adoption so that we can facilitate that implementers are aware of the specification so I think that\u0027s it just switch forward to I remind the authors of this document to come here and to post the document and I don\u0027t think as a working up we need to put the D barrier high for the adoption of this kind of document and to proceed with them yeah exactly not only for that but also because yeah it\u0027s um it helped from pre matters if you want interoperability and if we don\u0027t really exact specifications I think there\u0027s some problems that we will be out there so it\u0027s I think it\u0027s it\u0027s harmless to need to leave it as it is today but it\u0027s I think we have a value to document it this is for indie type one for any type to it\u0027s another story Tina\u0027s we have this single document which only specified and a subset of the D objects but there are also other documents who were specifying other tlvs and I think that it\u0027s also a good idea that we reopen the adoption for this year TLV so that the way in which the registry and people may start to play with the injection of the meter last tip for indie type 2 on the MD type one I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:41",
    "text": "mean we had a the chairs have a action to do a working group adoption for two of those documents but I think it\u0027s fair to say that neither one of them have been updated substantially recently so I think we\u0027ll take the action to talk to the the editors of those two documents get those you know updated and then we\u0027ll do the call for adoption and and let the working group decide whether to move forward with those and then that\u0027s that\u0027s the data center allocation and the broadband yeah and then I think there\u0027s maybe I know there\u0027s one other document there may be two that I think that we probably need to have discussion on the working group list as to whether we want to push for adoption of those two one or two I forget how many I know there\u0027s the security one and there was another one I think so so we\u0027ll take that action on on the MD type one Adrian and this would be a new topic oh okay so is there any more questions on the MD type one okay next topic so my topic is to subvert the working group chairs microphone control and ask the question does Carlos in the current nsh documented ready and you can go to this mic Carlos to respond thank you for the question Carlos pignataro Cisco we we spend significant amount of time revamping the document to get it to revision 14 there\u0027s been many many comments on the list on the thirteen and in particular many things to human for the very comprehensive review that held the document a lot from where I saw things as of this morning the document was ready Joel reminded me that there\u0027s one additional question for the working group in regards to allowing explicitly disallow in permitting etc hybrid MD types within an SSP meaning NSF receiving MD type one and send him an MD type to our attention to it we missed it sorry med Carlos\u0027s we\u0027ll send note to the list and get that so we want to hear you know if there\u0027s any particular points of view on that one otherwise you know we really think the document is ready yeah there was a lot a dream there was a lot of email gone backwards and forward both will revision thirteen and fourteen so hopefully were a stage where we\u0027re ready yeah at one last point yeah I do think there can be this currently stable compared to previous versions I think there is a good work that has been done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:41",
    "text": "on this sound specifications but back to the Adrienne question like if there are some void ASCII data are still in in the specification so I would just give an example if we dig deeper session from Adrienne about the specification of the null value for us for me if you are in a normal world I would take the text from the Adrienne Draft and put it in D in a safe document this is the normal I would proceed but it\u0027s up to us as a working to decide whether this will delay the initial specification or not and another that we are in I don\u0027t know if we delay the sending the document really by two or three weeks in order to handle for instance the integration of the null null value in Indonesia\u0027s document at I would I would prefer that path there is another item which is not can\u0027t Francis if you go to the document you will see that the value 0 are reserved but there is no justification why these values for us are reserved there and what will be the behavior of the implementation if this kind of value shows up this kind of stuff I I think that\u0027s their only manual but I think that it\u0027s really worth to go through the document and to say if there are a value which is not specified on the document what will be the behavior of the implementation I already seen the pointer in the mailing list too to remind that this is an open issue that we have since the interim meeting it\u0027s up to us to decide whether we enjoy it or not but I didn\u0027t heard an answer from your side so so it\u0027s just filed baby if you want to proceed and to progress the document but I think it\u0027s just pity to to not wait for one or two weeks to fix for us identification of the Adrienne text in the intogen attached and this kind of final check but it\u0027s in regards to that reserve values I\u0027m pretty sure we actually fix that if there\u0027s one that I missed i\u0027ll and again you know send me a pointer to the one that I missed that\u0027s an easy fix I want to make sure that the working group doesn\u0027t miss a big picture and you know goes to perfection when things are better than good enough right now that they might be me so so don\u0027t we don\u0027t want to go round around in circles any longer it\u0027s been long enough but I do think and and I know Joel agrees with me if you can provide specific text for Adrienne\u0027s points that he made in his presentation I would agree that makes sense to add that to the document and with the editor but we want to see specific text and we want to see it like soon because this document is being going for way too long yes I would like the document progress so I think the action points to prepare some text and they work it with Adrienne and scene degrees of course yes and yeah but it makes sense to had that I think Adrian if if you\u0027re in agreement and we want to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:41",
    "text": "get that text and we want to get it done soon okay we\u0027ve had a bit of oh I just thought of another issue oh I just thought of another issue well I know through lots and lots of documents you can always think of another issue in almost every document I\u0027ve turned out so but well if we can get it quickly we\u0027ll put it in Kent now your next next topic yeah new topics I\u0027ll bring up beans there\u0027s been a lot of email discussions on Ronaldo\u0027s um you know reverse packet generation so you know I\u0027ve been trying to collect you know basically and get some rough consensus because I think we should revise that you know with a Sanders approach that everybody can start implementing you know interoperable so I think probably most people have seen some of the emails but I think we\u0027re down to these two options are the initial four that was in the draft and I\u0027m I don\u0027t want to rehash all the discussions here to obviously I think people understand the trade-offs basically one option is using you know awesome right so for people here I what this call it one option is using SBI and as I basically as a way of showing both directions your flows or two flows for a connections example and the second option is basically SBI in the case basically the flow Y was the direction each one for each direction of the connection right so we\u0027re basically down to those two and basically you know discussion seems like I see more meaning tour though second one second option they say right now I don\u0027t know what how should we get some kind of so I think right let\u0027s continue that conversation on the mailing list and if people aren\u0027t familiar with the email thread then go take a look at that and obviously Ken\u0027s looking for for those comments and you know I think it\u0027s it is an area we need to progress okay I\u0027m great and risk is a team okay it looks what\u0027s the heck let\u0027s do it definition of om we have a discussion on what is interpretation of Obito oriented and I think that Adrienne draft highlights this issue that we have at hand because I\u0027ll use terminology from RFC 77 99 we are discussing we\u0027re proposing and we\u0027ve done it today to mechanism om mechanism active I am in hybrid I am so the active I am is then when we generate a Content a packet message and we send it down to the SFC and this packet is generated in the domain and terminating to me in a hybrid "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:42",
    "text": "om we add on or insert some information into NSH or into the packet that has om use that that will be hybrid or am so the question from my side to me is that what oh---but is signifies when the obit is set does it signify active forum does it signify any om and how I can differentiate between the two okay what we\u0027ve written in the document and what the working group worked over very extensively and reached agreement on is that the öbut being set means there is a a.m. significance here that is Meos relative to nsh it doesn\u0027t tell you where to find it it doesn\u0027t tell you what the processing is it tells you this is gonna need special processing if you\u0027re not prepared to do some special processing then you probably better drop this on the floor because you\u0027re not going to do the right thing if you are prepared to do the special processing then you know where to look for your special processing the there is a separate question which you\u0027ve raised with me directly but which is really for the working group do we want to have two mechanisms or one mechanism for how we represent some of this stuff or three mechanisms or seven I mean we can make up lots we\u0027re good at that or should we say there\u0027s only one and that is a topic for the OAM framework document that is being worked on not to mandate the mechanism but to talk about do we need there to be a single one or do we need multiple that\u0027s something we can\u0027t the framework document can very well address but all that the nsh document is telling you is there so--but says this packet needs OAM processing this nsh packet this thing you are getting after that you need to know something else to know how to do it it doesn\u0027t tell you how because we\u0027re not going to mandate and nsh a debate that is clearly going to take many months before it converges well it is our job as chairs to drive it to convergence but it\u0027s not going to happen quickly right okay Joe thank you for helping me to state the question more clearly so again from point of active om there are two options one option is to include it in a payload another option is to use our protocol none that\u0027s protocol none and then include metadata the hybrid om is clearly goes in the metadata so in both cases if actually if all three cases are signified by single or M bit mm-hmm I have really hard time envisioning "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:45",
    "text": "their hardware support being efficient for the OEM look if if we agree on the mechanisms if we agree there\u0027s one or we agree there\u0027s three it doesn\u0027t matter if we agree on the mechanisms then hardware which supports the mechanisms will be able to be triggered by the presence of the öbut even if there\u0027s multiple mechanisms if there if we agree on there being only one then the hardware triggers only one from the open with the obut is not the full solution we understand that it is not a full answer you cannot build hardware which will do OAM from just the obit because you have no idea what to do all you can do is put a hook in your hardware that says I better design it something can kill it I can\u0027t get around that because we haven\u0027t got agreement I can\u0027t just magically declare here\u0027s where you put it in the hardware neither can you again I agree that\u0027s if effectively what the problem I see and I look like that framework to the place where we come to the solution yes I am trained work is ok thank you where\u0027s the blue sheet please find blue sheets because we need them thank you I\u0027m a human clicker it works I\u0027ve been a human clicker more than once you "
  }
]