[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:37",
    "text": "good afternoon everyone we\u0027ll stop the meeting in a minute sure welcome to PCE I\u0027m John Hardwick this is note well please read the note well any submission that you make any statement view make today the microphone or in writing on the mailing list is an IETF contribution or contributions or subjects to the rules of RSC 53 78 NRC 81 79 if you want to read the note well more closely then you can go on the copy online before we start the session a few points of admin please sign the blue sheets that are being passed around I might go my quiet it\u0027s cuz I\u0027m sleepy I get closer it\u0027s just better yeah all right please sign the blue sheets they\u0027ve been passed around we have a minute taker Dhruv is going to take the minutes but he would like some help "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:38",
    "text": "please could you if you\u0027re not checking email please could you go check the etherpad online of a PC you session and help truth with minutes or contributions are very gratefully received is anybody in the jabber room that could act as a jab scribe Adrian thank you very much so we are streaming the audio and video I see but that\u0027s not in vain because we do have some people in the meet echo room so please only speak to the meeting using the microphones in the room please state your name before you speak so that the minute taken can record your name and present as if you\u0027re presenting please could you keep your feet inside this small pink square on the floor so that the people who are remote can can see you and yeah my as you can see there\u0027s only one chair today my coche Julian unfortunately couldn\u0027t travel to Singapore this time so here census apologies he threatened that he may turn up later in the meet echo room so you may hear his ghostly disembodied voice but it looks like he\u0027s not there yet I guess it\u0027s still a little early in France the usual reminder for everyone please to use a mailing list and use it actively and if you have any discussions you want to have please have them on the list if you\u0027re making any changes to a working group draft then it would be great to discuss those on the list that\u0027s not always the case but if you\u0027re making changes it would be great to at least send an email to the list and tell us what\u0027s happened in your draft we\u0027re actually getting a lot better at that in the working group is really pleasing to see but a lot of people are now doing that I heartily encourage that please please keep doing it if you have a new draft please introduce it on the mailing list it would be a lot easier to get some time in the meeting if you first socialize the draft online that\u0027s about it so onto the agenda this is the agenda you have me to tell you about working group status for the next 20 minutes then we have one slot to discuss a working group draft on stapled PC for point-to-multipoint then we move on to a new submission for PC extensions for SR or leveraging the ipv6 SR date of line segment rousing data bling and then finally we will go on with four drafts which we have previously discussed to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:38",
    "text": "get an update and find out what the next action is for the various drafts here the Association type of have protection that should say not projection the Association type for bi-directional osp\u0027s pset for supporting resource sharing applications and synchronization between staple pcs do we have anyone who wants to bash the agenda any comments everyone\u0027s happy good okay so let\u0027s take a tour of our working group drafts so we start off with a slide that I have wanted to present for a very long time after five years and seven months we have finally published a stateful PCE as an RFC and thank you everyone for your contributions and patience as we as we got my drive through the working group and out the other side improve EIC and out the other side now we have our SE 82 31 nice good news for pretty much every of the draft we have going in the working group because they were all depending normatively on it so it\u0027s really good to have that out there and with it dropped out a slew of other things the LSP state synchronization which which was kind of a companion document to that and a piece of extension for service aware LS piece was also dependent on state for PCE and there\u0027s kind of a double whammy because another really important draft also got to RFC in this period piece M s so piece F over TLS securing P sub it\u0027s really good to see they get published and I hope that everyone\u0027s implementing that further to that we have free drafts currently the RSC editors Q we have the staple PCE or LSP initiation which is being edited right now we have the Intel our extensions which depends on it and we also have the bids draft for RFC 6006 that\u0027s stateless PCE for point-to-multipoint all three sitting in the RSC editor queue so I expect those to drop out as our C\u0027s very soon just about 45 minutes ago I submitted another draft to the iesg so that\u0027s four draft for experimental code points see Deborah Deborah is arrived so Deborah that\u0027s with you now please do your magic and let\u0027s get up on moving a few administrative items we have a new art "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:38",
    "text": "burrata on embarassingly on the Roc we just published about a few weeks ago it was an wrong reference he was actually an indirect reference to a crypto algorithm it was it was a reference to a document which reference to the documents which defined the crypto algorithms so we need to correct that reference we\u0027re going to correct it in the errata the office of compact confirmed that there\u0027s no technical impact so there\u0027s no impediment to implementing the draft it was simply fixing a reference we also did some early code point allocations for the Association group draft we\u0027re hoping to get that draft published quite soon but in the meantime we needed to get code points in place because there are implementations that people want to start building networks or building building some sort of network with so we allocated some new code points without draft they now left it listed on the I honor website so you can find them there quick tour of the the drafts that are still with the working group so the first one the draft for inter area and Inter AS applicability so the status about is there was a shepherd review that went back with comments for the office to updates I\u0027d only office here today no okay well what I heard I\u0027m the word on the street is that the authors are considering whether the scope of this draft is right considering they started writing it when I was still at school and now we have staple PCE and then the world has changed they may need to update the draft with those new requirements so it\u0027s with them to consider that I\u0027m not going to force them to do it that if they want to do it then great but if they do do that then it\u0027s going to go back to the working group will have to review it again and that\u0027s as it should be so we\u0027ll wait and see what happens we have several drafts here which are comparable working group last call and they\u0027re basically waiting for bandwidth for the document Shepherd\u0027s to ship them on up to be iesg the first one is the LSP setup type were actually this waiting for me to make an update to the draft it\u0027s an update with agreed so it should be done very soon and then hopefully we\u0027ll just be shepherded on the next to relate to gmpls whereas Yoo Lian tells me he\u0027s something like 80% of a way through writing up a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:38",
    "text": "shepherd report for through gmpls extensions and I hope that he\u0027ll be another 20% of the way through that before we get to the next IDF meeting and will will have removed this from the list the w.zahn rwa draft is ready to go Danijela shepherd that a long time ago it\u0027s just blog tom on gmpls we\u0027re gonna move those two forward together we have about five drafts here that are pretty much telling me that they\u0027re ready for last call segment routing which is basically a follow-on from the LSP setup type that will go when the LSP setup type is ready hierarchy extensions where I think that the draft has expired I think the vas just down to the draft being dormant while they wait for the the publishing process there\u0027s anyone here who\u0027s an author of hierarchy want to make any comments about that I guess not okay well I\u0027ll chase the offers offline and make sure it gets refreshed because we can\u0027t do a last call on an expired draft the the next one is PC Association group where we\u0027ve just completed the early allocation but a lot of work is depending on that the document seems stable we\u0027re going to push that through to last call shortly up to the meeting staple PCE also a bandwidth again has been around for a while is stable the officer saying is ready and staple PC points multi points you will be hearing about in a few minutes time so they should all be getting ready for last call so things are moving on pretty well about end of the Working Group a few working to address for not on the agenda for today first of all the yang model drew you want to say anything about the status of the young model from Warwick so regarding the yang model basically from our side more or less things are stable and we have not made much change from since we presented in ITF 99 and we asked a few clarification questions or to the yang doctors so we have got some replies but we have not yet updated those so that\u0027s one action point on us so we will mostly be updating and then our waiting game for the eternal and the other documents that we are referencing so the waiting game will happen for them to get published and then we can take up the piece of junk so you think we need to wait for those of the drafts before we can move this one on yes because I think that\u0027s the yang publication process there anything that you are importing it doesn\u0027t need to be published before it yeah we can\u0027t be published before that published but we could be at the same time we don\u0027t have "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:39",
    "text": "to sort of sit wait for an RSC number for weekly yeah at least we can think of getting yang doctors and other things done at the same time as the detailed models are you know getting ready yeah okay there are a couple of drafts here which are related to the actn work from teas working group start staple hierarchical PCE and be applicability statement Dhruv any updates on those drafts basically be kind of refresh the documents based on the changes that were done in the ACD and framework as those documents are getting ready for last Colin teas so we have just kept them kept them aligned to the changes there other than that not much changes we are expecting in the document as of them okay good so this PC Association diversity anyone what his feats of that one so I think we addressed recommends that we received a couple of time ago in the latest version from my point of view or there is one element that we added that are not completely happy with so maybe we need more discussion on it otherwise I think the main point of the main architecture of the draftees is okay this just be small point to our advice okay policy Association draft okay for policy it\u0027s almost the same so it\u0027s are clearly stable varies maybe you won\u0027t think that we need to discuss just whether maybe a newer TLV subshell which well the possibility of having variables to the police if you see something that we need to discuss okay and to dress release its ass type of PCA 1vb gmpls extensions to stay for PCA and the other stable PC LSP scheduling where honestly I\u0027m not sure what the status of these is they seem to have been dormant I don\u0027t more sure if ask us we\u0027re finished or if that\u0027s because people are working on them true truth regarding the scheduling I think we did make an update just before the ITF and basically to keep it aligned with the t\u0027s document as well as it\u0027s getting progressed there there were a few other changes we wanted to also align to the way the RFC 8 2 3 1 tells us to do a few things and the state synchronization draft that is also on the on the agenda today so basically "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:40",
    "text": "keeping the extensions aligned to the rest of the PC working group documents so that\u0027s the major update from the scheduling okay so does that mean it\u0027s is sort of just staying alive while it waits for other things so what do we want to do yeah basically more reviews with I\u0027m already low the next step you okay some of our drafts are expired as we\u0027ve noted some of them are expired just because I\u0027m moving slowly for various reasons and that\u0027s okay we just need to get them alive again so we can take the next step or a to where the chairs are wondering if they\u0027re still an editor in charge or if the draft is now headless there\u0027s a remote initiated gmpls LSP is anyone working on that I think it was a zephyr but I haven\u0027t seen south are for a while or Letran then he\u0027s here he\u0027s okay he\u0027s in Singapore okay well maybe I\u0027m trying to try to track him down yes is every Singapore I think it\u0027ll be joining someone I\u0027ll just bring him okay that would be good yeah so I can talk to his after I see if he\u0027s still still going on that I think of the enhanced errors I draft was alive a long time ago and then it died because no one was working on it and then she am from why we took it over other things young from Huawei is also stepped away so I think that this one\u0027s now again dormant so I\u0027ll save the pho the same thing I said last time if anyone is interested in this work and let me know I\u0027m be honest okay so how am I on says he would like to take this over which is fine are you able to contact Jen and yeah okay thank you thanks that\u0027s the end of a working group status any questions on any of that in which case the first presenter is I think a bond or the point-to-multipoint staple PCE when I spawn biram I\u0027ll be giving a brief update on the progress of the stateful piece PC for p2 the PDMP LSP is draft there\u0027s been one revision published for this since the last IDF this revision contains some minor a total changes to get ourselves aligned "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:40",
    "text": "with the progress of the three documents listed on the slide at this point that document is fairly stable there no open issues we believe it\u0027s ready to progress to the next stage so we like to request the working group and the chairs to consider this Falasca okay so this draft has been around for quite a few cycles it\u0027s been stable for a long time I haven\u0027t seen too many reviews of it happy to proceed to a last call it would be great to see a few reviews during last call my main concern is there haven\u0027t been enough pairs of eyes on it so I mean obviously we we tried to do a Carol Shepperd review but that\u0027s no substitute for multiple pairs of eyes so I\u0027ll proceed the last call and I hope and pray that people do do review that okay so kiddies don\u0027t forgive this get us on jabber didn\u0027t just share we share and sure that it\u0027s really for last call and he will it is stable mainly but he would need a refresh that you\u0027ll do tonight yeah because I think it\u0027s the draft expired caught a long time ago so yeah good to see a refresh first and then we\u0027ll you know get a refresh and then maybe guess them someone to review that of them will make me think about a last call after that thanks okay so that the comment said we\u0027re relating to the estate all PCE or remote initiated LS please okay so now it\u0027s I think Dhruv those are the wrong slides hello yeah this is drove I\u0027m presenting a piece of extension for sr v6 so they\u0027re a bunch of other is our v6 documents that you are seeing in the idea of today so within the B sub we wanted to see what changes we need to make to support it and whether it\u0027s a good idea or not as well so so what we are basically doing here we know that s are basically allows you to steer packets through both ipv6 and M pianist\u0027s and use the same source routing paradigm only the data plane is change is different one uses MPLS stack other use an ipv6 header extension that\u0027s the basic difference so the question that we have is should be C be able to compute SR path for both ipv6 and MPLS forwarding plane and if it can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:40",
    "text": "can P sub be used as a protocol to transfer that information from the the PCE to the the head node where the who steering the traffic so these are the two questions that are the most important questions for the working group before we can jump into how we kind of do it right so from the author\u0027s point of view are we kind of see like what would be what would this extension look like if we try to do it basically in case of SR v6 the difference is that instead of an MPLS label we will be using an ipv6 address to identify a particular segment and just an ordered list of ipv6 address is instead of a label stack you have an ordered list of ipv6 address in this case so we already have PC segment routing draft which focuses on MPLS data plane if we extend the same extension what are the changes that we would need to do to support ipv6 data plane so we kind of realized that main changes would be that we already have an SRA ro and sr r ro sub-object that we used for segment routing a few changes needs to be made to that to support SR v6 behalf capability negotiation as a part of segment routing maybe we need to separate it out and since the parameters are different that one is more focused on the MPLS and MSD kind of stat depth and those things and here we have different parameters maybe doing it separately would be a good idea and also since we have the setup type maybe we could use the setup type also as a way to signal that this is an ipv6 data plane so this was at the high level what we thought would the extension would look like messages I don\u0027t think so we need to make any change to our messages request reply report all works fine they all use ero the only difference would be that we need to use an updated SR ero sub object and update it s RR or sub job sub object to carry the ipv6 data plane path so a quick look on the top is the capability so in the capability of the TLV itself can specify whether the PCC or PC supports the SR v6 and the Mac\u0027s SL can also notify what is the maximum the segment ipv6 segment header length that can be used and this is quite different from MSD so it\u0027s better to have it in a separate TLB the as I said part setup type the second one and this is the updated SR aro sub object compared to the one that is there in the segment routing draft the most of the top things remains the same and if you remember there you have an S ID followed by nai which is network and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:40",
    "text": "node or adjacent c identifier so we kind of updated that to also include the SR v6 identifier and inside there\u0027s our v6 identify you have the SR v6 ID which is a 128-bit ipv6 address and some other information about the society what function the Society has some flags and what type it is and this type can further use nai that we already have to identify that this si D belongs to which node or which adjacency etc so the idea is to keep it aligned to the s re ro s RRR oh that already exists just a bit with the SR v6 identifier and the function code and some other informations that will help us achieve the v6 requirements as well so first I think to the working group first question would be that with this stuff we are making sure that the PC and PCL can be used for both modes of segment routing so we as a we need to decide as a working group that whether this is a good idea whether we should continue to use B sub even for SR v6 and if we do it in that way is this extension what we are proposing does it make sense or not so any comments yes please thank you it seems fairly obvious to do this I just I mean I had a couple of Falls reading the draft one was just to make you aware the LSP setup type draft is changing so there will be a new a new idiom for you to follow in this draft once I change is done I think the the capability TLV in the open message is moving to a sub TLV from from the top-level TLB so what are you wait until I get the OSP set up tog draft out and that come home we yeah you can show the update I noticed buried in the tags that you have a dependency on the segment routing draft which doesn\u0027t specify something which I can\u0027t remember what it is but if you could put that on the mailing list then we can make sure I guess so I assume the setup type is going to be ready within pubic right sorry the update on setup type yeah that will be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:43",
    "text": "done soon and it will have an effect on tree structure yes so with regards to dependencies keep it simple done if you\u0027ll start looking at the programmability draft and all the combinations you know you\u0027ll just wait forever if keep us try to pass provision and we did with employers yeah I think that\u0027s a good idea we\u0027ll make sure that it can be extended in the future when that happens right now we can keep it simple okay max is true again so this is a park protection and general piece of association when I wrote the the slides I thought that I had to convince the working group that Association needs to be moved luckily John has already put in his chairs slide that he wants Association to be moved soon so few of the slides we can kind of move for a little quickly my work is already done there but just to keep people up to date it on what\u0027s the changes that we have done main changes since we wanted to publish in early I on a location so we make sure that\u0027s completely clean and it\u0027s taken care of so luckily that\u0027s done thank you chairs and ATF and some of the implementations are already started using the only allocated code point and one more thing we wanted to kind of show that currently this association draft is being used in multiple documents and it\u0027s important that we kind of keep things aligned and make sure that what is there in the base draft is it\u0027s according to the base draft in other documents and good thing what has happened is that we have got a lot of feedback from policy diversity and we had in the last set of revisions taken those considerations and that\u0027s why we kind of made an update with the operator operator configured and dynamic association so luckily we have had a good back-and-forth between the various association types and the generic association these things are things are going well over all that we have two working group documents three other documents are on the agenda including this one that I\u0027m going to start talking about very soon and then we have some other documents as well which have been published as well as presented in them some other idea so there is a good set of documents based on Association so to the main topic path protection so Park protection in fact was one of the first Association type that was published in fact this was the type when we were when the author\u0027s I was not part of the team back then and when the authors were considering part protection that\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:43",
    "text": "time they realize that we may need to do a generic Association so that we don\u0027t have every different use case trying to do this in a different way so we went back and said that let\u0027s write a generic Association object and make the part protection as a separate document where the Association object is defined there and this document just defines a new Association type called protection right so this document in fact has been there for a long time since 2014 last it was presented was in Buenos Aires but it\u0027s a pretty straightforward document it simply associate two or more LSPs to provide path protection so it has a new path protection type and it has a TLV called path protection association TLV which can be carried in the association object and why are this you identify among this group of LSPs which LSP is working and which LSP is a production LSP and what is the mode of further LSP whether it is on a standby mode or not so the changes that we did add since the protection is a dynamic Association of sorts it is created automatically we don\u0027t expect operator to configure the Association ID and other details it just configure protection unable so since this is a dynamic Association or the text around it has been added some error handling has been updated made sure that we are aligned to the stateful PC out of C at 231 etcetera and the text from security and other manageability considerations section was missing which has been added basically we feel like you know this is a quite important document it\u0027s a useful feature we all need protection and draft has been stable and there are in fact known implementation for the protection draft this was in fact as I said the first Association type that actually came to the working group but somehow the diversity and the policy and some other documents moved i had much earlier than this one thank you any comments on protection so I think we all agree that having protection is a good idea who has read the draft I see about 10 maybe a dozen hands which is a pretty good number that\u0027s encouraging so we\u0027ve got information I think we will take it to the list thank you thank you [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:55",
    "text": "rakesh good afternoon everyone my name is Rakesh Gandhi I\u0027m presenting this draft on the Associated bidirectional ESPYs on behalf of the authors listed so the agenda is we\u0027ll look at the requirements and the scope of the document there are two Association or initiation types defined double sided and single sided we look at the PCF extensions and discuss the next steps so the bi-directional associated LS B\u0027s they are not new they have been deployed in the packet transport networks today they can be corrupted or non core outed LS B\u0027s and the properties can be asymmetric in the forward and reverse directions like bandwidth reduce so the scope of the draft is associated bi-directional LSPs as we mentioned the LSB is can be initiated by the PCE or PCC and it can also be used for state let PC for core outed path computation for example so the first one double sided initiation where the bi-directional LSP is initiated and both endpoints of their LSP there is a new Association type defined for it the Salas piece can be a quarter or non core outed as we mentioned and there was a restriction in the previous version of the Association draft where LSPs Association cannot be initiated by two different pcs so the restriction was removed and it works perfectly for this use case for the single-sided initiation case the tunnel by the external is initiated on one end point of the LSP and there is a reversal SP that\u0027s also created as part of the tunnel so we clarify the tunnel construct in the in this revision so as mentioned it\u0027s using Association group there are two new new Association types defined for single sided end that was I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:55",
    "text": "did by the external SP the rest of the object is populated using the procedures defined for our SCP Association object RFC Xeon Phi Phi 1 there is a new TLB defining the Association object operator configure Association and rage but as these are operator configure associations this TLV is not used so that we can use the entire range of the Association ID so there is an optional Association group TL we define that contains the flags for forward you LSP reverse LSP and the core outed parts there are some rules defined in the RSVP for our T\u0027s working group document to identify forward and reverse LS piece and the last one error handling so as mentioned the forward and reverse LSP is belong to the same tunnel and during the piece of communication there is a error core defined to identify if there is a tunnel mismatch so next steps we welcome your review comments and suggestions and requesting working group adoption for this document any comments questions okay so this draft has again has been discussed for a while has been on the agenda a few times just just to confirm what I think I already know how many people have read the draft okay it\u0027s not as many as I thought maybe half a dozen hands yeah six people okay so I guess we\u0027ll go ahead and poll and and see what sort of response we get again nothing like my concerns are largely to see that enough people have had eyes and reviewed it maybe a buggy dumb question from me actually but what is the difference between single sided and double sided what do you mean by that so so and single sided tunnel is created on one end point and it contains the boat forward in the USL ESPYs and there is a RSVP OS LSP object is defined reversible so it gets a signal across okay I got it any more comments for Akash yeah thank "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:57",
    "text": "you Himanshu from Siena I think I\u0027ve read the draft and we it\u0027s very interesting graph we are following this drop pretty closely so I would recommend adopting this my opinion okay practices good information Thank You Munson okay the next presenter is how am I am hello this is how men from Hawley and I\u0027m going to present dscraft extension to PCP to support the resource sharing based on past computation so this market has been initiated three years ago and was once terminated because some scope and conflict with some other works especially for the Association groups works and by carefully discussion with authors from other draft oh we has aligned our scope and the risk of this draft to support only the resource sharing scenario and specify this kind of strategy when the new era piece used to to replace an existing RSP and we also support another scenario for resource sharing between two hours piece with different parameters including the endpoints or bandwidth and some similar parameters in the drafter we include the two different use cases so why it\u0027s for a single PC pass computation in the single domain case and the other is a kind of multiple PC interactions which can be applied in either inter domain case or inter layer case and considering the resource sharing strategies we now provide three different consideration that is you share the link or you share the node or you share the same as our G group so now we are working together with the Association a group draft by using the Association group object I defined and we extend this by defining a new TR way to support resource sharing okay this flowchart is a little bit repeating what groups crossing his picture but this one becomes more simple because it is quite clear that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:59",
    "text": "Association group objector is is is a base objectified and we are going to define different the TR is a comparator with resource sharing missing the the other extreme for past computation is a kind of diversity so this rather covers how how to compute different passing or diversity ways but and our work focused on how to do it in are sharing ways so we reuse the Association group object defined in the first route and we are introducing a new Association type which is named as sharing and we defined the corresponding resource sharing here we in the Association type object so this is a brief view of the TRA and currently we include a straight event of flags here and the representative for the strategy are sharing and the arab it is the link and bit for node and the aspect for SI ROG so in when any of this bit is set to 1 it means during the past computation the PC need to prioritize that kind of sharing during the past computation so it means that it would firstly try to share the link if there is no link resort can be shared then it will try to find a path without ring share so this is slightly different from what is fully failure directly so if we cannot find a pass without link share then it will report failure its if failed again yeah and the same procedure rules applies to every flex and for their further node and as RMG beat pc just the priority for our highest different parameters to be feared for the past commutation and there\u0027s such kind of information to be shared that is carried in the optional theories so currently we bring this work back after team after two years and we want to we have already confirmed the relationship for this work and the the other existing works we are trying to make sure that we are doing the right way and they if there is any suggestion to the solutions well welcome to to receive any comments and we will also like to request for a working group of the doctor thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "I haven\u0027t read the draft this is manju one of the suggestion would be to have a link diversity instead of share link diversity no diversity SLG diversity do you have that or you have the in the association diversity this one this one is a separate crafter that always that was the case so okay so this for the sharing part okay so if you officer are asking for adoption by show of hands how many of the remove read this draft this is about 10 or 12 people about 10 or 12 how many people think this is a reasonable starting point for this work and should be adopted in the working group it\u0027s about the same okay thanks very much thank you truth you\u0027re back [Music] hi the stove again your final presentation it\u0027s on state synchronization between stateful PC this document has been discussed in the last two ITF and so we will present what is the latest update that we have done and let\u0027s start with that so basically what is this document this document defines the procedure that how to stateful PC communicate with each other and this communication basically we are doing to make sure that the PCE deployments are resilient that if one stateful PCE goes away it doesn\u0027t lead to disaster and there is other the PC which can easily take over some of the procedures were already defined in a 2 3 1 the idea with this document is to make sure that we become much more resilient and solve some of the issues that we found like looping optimality issues etc especially in case when the path computation is a dependent bar computation and in for example in case of diversity where to LSPs who are related to each other and when we are doing path computation on them it could lead to some computation loops etcetera which has been discussed in the previous ITF meetings a couple of times one thing that we can work towards to make sure that we do this in such a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:02",
    "text": "way that it can be used in various PC to PC relationships whether we have a redundant PC where one pcs is a slave at another PC is the master and all computation is done by one guy and only on the failure it moves to the other one or the two pcs are sharing and they are load balancing between each other within the same domain the next set is when you are two pcs which are in different domain and you would like to share information then also the same extensions could be easily used in both peer-to-peer relationship or parent to child relationship so this is a brief intro on the state sink draft so yes okay we are still continuing with introduction okay there\u0027s more to introduce so generic procedure this is a generate procedure it works for both the cases we call this piece obsession or state sync piece obsession and we have a capability around it so that you can identify on which session we would be exchanging this information and the synchronization needs to happen from both pcs so from one PC to another one PC with his state and another PC with another they say that\u0027s why it\u0027s bi-directional in nature and some of these state sync relationship you can mark that yes for some set of LS B\u0027s one of the pcs is the is the master PC who\u0027s gonna do all the path computation and within that Association group for example if we take the diversity all the LS piece must be delegated to that master PC who will do the computation and that will allow and help us not to go into the computational loop and which PC is responsible etcetera and the way to decide this relationship is a simple PC election that can be done based on the priority we also need to make sure that that how the NSP state needs to move from PC to PC and maybe from one PC to another so what are the set of forwarding rules around that that when PC should forward this information to another PC II so those rules are also well defined in the document and then we have the sub delegation procedure which is as I was talking about in master and slave may be the PCC delegates the LS p21 PC but that PC is not the PC who\u0027s supposed to do the path computation it can further delegate the same LSP to the master PC so these are the set of procedures which are defined in the document so coming to the main part that is what is the update that we have done so the update was around how do we make sure that the state that is stored in the at the PC is the latest state so you might be getting the state from the device which as as for a 2/3 one happens that the PCC is supposed to provide you the LSP state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:02",
    "text": "from the device as well as unable PC might be sending you the states so we need to make sure that we update the state with the latest information so we we have this procedure laid out for that that how we could do that so the main moon two points are that we need to keep single state and make sure that that state is the latest we will also maintain from which all sources we have received the state so that even if one session goes down and if from other session I\u0027m still able to learn about this information I\u0027ll keep it till the information goes from every source right so that kind of procedure will help when we have a list of all the sources so how did we be we kind of debated what is the best way to do that one thing that we we found that since we already have in the state synchronization optimization procedure something call as the LSP DB version which we wrote to do some kind of optimization like when we can skip or when we can do incremental DB sync rather than doing a full sync every time so if we can use this LSP DB version yr which we can always figure it out that which LSB state is the latest state so but the value of the LSP TV version is per session so what we had to do was we created another theory called original and SP DB version theory and the idea of this TLB was to carry the PCCs LSP DB version as it received from the PCC and you may still have the LSP der DB version which is between PC to PC so why are this new original LSP DB version we could always determine which which is the latest state coming from the network and the PC updates the state so what is a rule the PC will update the LSP state only when the DB version present in the current report is greater than what is already stored in them in my database so this will ensure that we never use the older state so let\u0027s take an example so suppose you have you are receiving a state via a PC e as well as PCC for some reason this link and this path is quite slow and the information those sent by the PCC this information PC always received first so let us take the top example we report the status the pc further forwards the status to another pc e and includes the original LS p DB version let\u0027s assume the version number 100 with this information and it adds it into the database now some other change happens from the same LS p so you have a new version version 0 1 and while this version is still going this guy is still quite slow and it has not yet reached but 1 0 1 we simply update but on the slow link now imagine we get the older state which is still not read reach the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:02",
    "text": "pc e with the version number 100 and since this is an older version to the latest state we will simply ignore it so why are this procedure very simple procedure we could make sure that the latest state is always maintained at the PC and there is no reason for us to get like if we are receiving the same information from multiple places we will make sure that we get the latest information only so that\u0027s about the updates so basically what is still pending in the document we want to explicitly add how to handle initiated LS piece you see initiated LS peas as well but technically there\u0027s not much of a difference between a delegated LSP and a PC initiated LSP because even when you initiate the LSP it goes to the PCC and PC reports and delegate that to the PC so we have already the procedures working for delegation all we need is to clarify and make sure that it also works for PC initiated so a small update we need to make which we are working during this idea of meeting and we\u0027ll try to publish very very soon this update overall I think this even in the last idea when we have discussed this topic there has been a good support that this is a problem that\u0027s worth solving and we hope that this you consider this document as a good foundation for us to work on thank you and I guess adrian has a question hi Adrian flower can you go back to her it\u0027s like that one will do yeah yeah not the picture one of the judges is there an assumption that the synchronization is always from a a master PC to a slave PC and never never two masters yes yes those procedures is where we we have identified in this set of forwarding rules so the the only the PC that\u0027s delegated LSP so you did ECC would delegate and LSP to a single PC only that PC will further move that information to others so other pcs for example in in this case this even if this was the latest information the information would have not gone in that direction and also the idea was that we want to make sure that it\u0027s the master PC where we need the latest information so even if there is a delay at the other side I\u0027m trying to just understand why we want to do this what the use cases where I know you had a slide on that didn\u0027t quite go into my head so is it so is the deal here that there\u0027s there are multi of multiple pcs because we want to provide some sort of redundancy or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:05",
    "text": "scaling to the network we\u0027re just having one point of failure is is a bad place to be okay yes in fact in the 0-0 version of the document that was the dus case that is how we can avoid computational loops but then we kind of agree that we don\u0027t want to write an extension that only works for redundancy if the extension can easily solve the problem for other cases as well so even if it is inter domain or hierarchy we should kind of use the same techniques yeah I guess I sort of think of a PC as being like a virtual device rather than a physical box necessarily and when I think about redundancy or load balancing I tend to think more about a horizontal scaling inside an implementation rather than having multiple different implementations talking to each other using a public protocol so I completely agree I think that model also exists where maybe they are using an internal database and sharing clustering solution which are kind of popular but I think we feel like both the things are kind of needed if a PC is using an internal thing doesn\u0027t care for a standard protocol yes they can do within that as well yeah that\u0027s a solid choice for need for the standard protocol like whether it could be done with the standard protocol to get a feel for the need for it but you had some other use cases yeah well but I didn\u0027t quite understand those so much okay at the inter-domain case why would two pcs in a different domain share responsibility for the same group of LSPs so if you have end-to-end LS B\u0027s and imagine you have an end-to-end rsvp-te LSP and head knows definitely knows the information but we also want if you are cooperating between two set of pcs to set up and n2 and LSP and if there are some resources information in the second LSP we would like both the PCs to be aware of that information because it\u0027s an end-to-end LSP and any path computation if only the ingress nodes nodes and other does not will not give us the best optimal stateful PC solution so if two PC\u0027s when they\u0027re cooperating via request messages and other things and if they have if the ingress PCE learns the latest state we wanted a good and fast mechanism to also report that information to the next PC so that the computation goes faster so you will definitely not do this for all LS B\u0027s because there\u0027s no reason for you to share that information only for inter domain LSPs and similarly in her Ikey PC that I give it to the child PC child PC wants to further delegate to parent PC and how to send that report information how to keep the database synchronized between child PC and paren PC the same procedure can help okay I I guess I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:05",
    "text": "go read the use cases in more detail offline see if I can really get to understand those so the question about do we want to take this it\u0027s work on the obvious question is is it has anyone read this if you\u0027ve read this please raise your hands we got two I think two people so not too many people so I think it seems like the draft hasn\u0027t had a lot of traction and not many people who\u0027ve read it so I feel like it would be a good idea to get more people to to get involved show some support or at least interest in solving the problem at the moment I think I\u0027ve been looking to find if there\u0027s really interested in working on this problem or if it\u0027s just something where you know sort of hypothesizing Stefan would you like to add your experience like since one of the operators came up to us and said that this is a problem that they are facing so maybe it\u0027s defined can also add yeah that uh never is so yes the finest formal range speaking so if we are looking at the current PC implementation we know that are based on a application based redundancy so for example using that AB a synchronization and so on we had a lot of we have a lot of constraints like for example you should put all your instances in the same site which is clearly not acceptable for us because if the site is failing you will not have any PC anymore so we need to have something that is more robust compared to what visa application based redundancy is providing so clearly accompanists where dialog using Pisa protocol is something that is really useful and straightforward and simple to implement so sorry also you could have the two pieces in different sites right so for example one in the US and vo go in Europe or something as it with a very IL 2 DB between them ok the thing but the backend database is you you think of as restricted and you couldn\u0027t do that with a single back-end database in theory it seems doable but no one is supporting it yeah you have to yeah usually what vendors say say are you should be at something like 10 or 15 milliseconds max which is not acceptable for us ok thank you thank you drift that was the last presentation "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:06",
    "text": "so anyone got any anything else they want to talk about or ok so thank you very much and we will see you again in London thank you oh sure I\u0027ll put you on I\u0027ll put you alone you "
  }
]