[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:16",
    "text": "you know it takes a while for the video to Arizona provisionally yeah like just instead of it canvas then we just colored okay hello everyone welcome to Singapore and welcome to the HC working group so if you haven\u0027t read that please note well okay so blue sheets they are circulating somewhere please make sure that you sign them up we need jabber scribes so any volunteers hello people wake up okay so I would like to do it but yeah also there\u0027s either part it\u0027s helpful and if you helped write the minutes it\u0027s like collaborative effort so this is the deep sea open so there are two chairs this is pennyvos and I\u0027m talkin grass grow okay so what we have for the agenda today administrivia this is they think I\u0027m going to write now after that we\u0027re going quit the problem statement of Muccino current extensions for HPV 6 after that two presentations from Ian please be gentle on him so he\u0027s in Europe and it\u0027s like 3 a.m. for him so he assured us that his coffee is strong and good but you never know and finally we have the last topic oh sorry the second topic that Ian will be talking about is prefix delegate in Korea so so this is a new material and finally we have a discussion about advancing hep-2 to full standard so team will be running the show okay so what\u0027s the document status we have several the number of drafts is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:20",
    "text": "decreasing which is good but still there are some some new appearances so the first one and visit yank so this is something that\u0027s on agenda today maka sang it\u0027s still going through the last call Bernie and I will talk about wrapping this up in couple days but there is still time to to share your comments so if you have some time please read it it\u0027s it\u0027s a short draft I mean it\u0027s like twelve or fourteen pages so the next one a problem statement of Emory this is only a non-agenda the next draft bitch-slapped quadrant this is something that\u0027s also in the school so again these show your comments and finally the last relative drafts of this is to individual the preface delegating really it\u0027s on the agenda and I think that\u0027s it regarding administrivia so let\u0027s go with some reason doesn\u0027t like to do it sometimes okay now it\u0027s working isn\u0027t it yeah okay now it should be okay hello everyone my name is linghu franching Ohio University today I\u0027m going to talk about to the update on problem statement of multi requirements extensions for the HTTP basics first let\u0027s have a quick recap of this document we introduced them multi requirement extensions for dhcpv6 in IETF 98 in Chicago for the first term and the ITF 104 in program pract we presently do this work and the community can see related Deborah and Bernie to me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:22",
    "text": "and some other people as Melanie\u0027s to keep valuable comments on this document and we up-to-date updating the two versions to solve the open issues before IETF 106 the main changes society of 104 includes in figure 1 the general the general th the comodo we modify the message processing functions into message overlaying functions for dhcp relays and we modify the your the general model by adding external entities and inputs I mean section for point to point for way in the previous version way say with basic server strategy general to random justice but in this version the current will say currently the server\u0027s assigning addresses prefix and there\u0027s some some other configuration options to the to Thea configure the policies and we will move the 16th section four point two point five the extension principles and explain rates it\u0027s contained in the introduction and we talked about enforcing local policies as use cases using more generic languages in Section five this is a original DHCP general model and which includes message messages options and the messaging processing functions and adjust generation mechanisms and when modify it in the new old version and this is a modified reg state each a new model and we add external inputs and videos in this version and to make it more general and clearer and for HTTP for messaging extension we can not only define the ODST messages to in which these functionalities but also we can extend the new messages to enhance its security for option extension we can fix a few basics allows defined me almost no options to just meet parameters between the HTM it is and also we can define define new option also the options can make him may come from may come from external inputs for example I\u0027ve seen 74 37 defines and defines the various options to to exchange authorization and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:26",
    "text": "identification information between DHCP relay and DHCP server on next stop next steps and we believe this strategy is ready for working group last score and the other issues are relatively in manner and thanks for listening any questions comments or concerns just as a reminder this is an informational yeah yeah this is an informational document yeah suresh krisshnan so I I read the draft it looks like more like a survey than a problem statement like what did he mean by problem statement [Applause] well waste as IP IP address is closely to the manageability privacy protections and surveys security and traceability of the networks and we summarize the passe by extension points of dhcpv6 to to present i\u0027m overview of the the extensions right like and that\u0027s why it\u0027s it\u0027s look more like a survey of like you know existing mechanisms in like specific implementations then a problem statement for something so I think the name is like a bit misleading yeah it\u0027s three volts it\u0027s a good point Suresh I think originally the problem was you know they wanted a way to generate addresses with semantics in them right and and maybe I want to go back maybe some of that got lost okay and so it it\u0027s a question of that do we you know do we add that back in if it\u0027s not clear or should we just change the title to make it more of a survey yeah I think like a change that Idol is like a better thing because I couldn\u0027t really see specific problem statement anywhere in the past so I think you know it is a general mechanism so it probably would be better to just make it at you know here\u0027s a survey of mechanisms that exist or something that\u0027s good thanks thank you any other comments okay thank you okay so the next one is the precincts young so young and now it\u0027s your turn "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:27",
    "text": "[Music] Ian are you out there we\u0027re not hearing you we see you what about now oh yes there we go excellent okay so that\u0027s working okay is it yes yes good good so I\u0027ve got a couple of things for you first one is an update to the gang dhcpv6 data model transit we\u0027ve had kicking around sir there\u0027s probably coming into his fourth you know actually can you move on to the first the next slide please so I think the last times presented was back in IETF 104 and the message then was that it was kind of languishing a little bit due to a lot of their existing co-authors having moved on to other things and and also the general size at the task that we were trying to tackle I\u0027m pleased to announce that this is no longer the case so and Michael from ISC joined us after the call for new authors at ATF when I fought and I think we\u0027ve got the thing very much back on the rails as a result of that I wouldn\u0027t call it quite a ground-up rewrite that we\u0027ve got but pretty much all the content in there is new I mean we\u0027ve really ated all of the model structures the Scopes that\u0027s in there a lot of moving outs of unnecessary parts and a lot of refocusing really on just you know what are the important thing is of building a an extensible set of models and coming up with guidelines and rules for how those the extensions can\u0027t be done so that we can leave for subsequent work any you know adding new functionality and things and and modeling the rest of the protocol depending on what people find to be relevant and you know I wanted to put the effort into doing can we go into the next slide so what I propose and what we ended up doing was basically refocusing on just getting a decent model that covers what\u0027s in 84 15 the boil the ocean problem of that we originally set ourselves and I think what he dramatically underestimated what was going to be possible of trying to model kind of the the state of the art of the protocol yeah the resulting work was just was just too huge refocusing on 84 15 has given us something which is much much easier to work with I think they\u0027re much much easier to read and unholy for people to review as well we\u0027ve also managed to do this in a way that I don\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:27",
    "text": "think we\u0027ve ended up with too much duplication of functionality and duplication in the models as well so we\u0027ve got quite a good you reuse mechanism which I\u0027ll I\u0027ll come on so on later slides could we go to the next one please so strangely enough we kind of overlooked how this model or the models would interface and in to work with other existing gang models and you know particularly around IETF AI interfaces sorry I don\u0027t know quite how we managed to do that but there we are so we\u0027ve restructured this to use the existing interfaces tree that ITF in interfaces provides us with and then we take this and add in the functionality that we need on top of the already existing interface rich that that provides what this then means is that for every interface that you wish to provide configuration for it kind of gives you a structure in which that can all be built and and you know it makes it for a much better into working well with what\u0027s already there and I think it lacks just a lot more sense as well and we\u0027d also overlooked any data about any state data and timer data which again seems to be a fairly glaring omission now that I came back and looked at it so that\u0027s fixed as well we removed a lot of the stuff that was done in features in the path of one thing that we have less left and I think the only existing remaining feature actually is prefix delegation is obviously not every client has that and we\u0027ve also gone back and and cleaned up a lot of the notification stuff that\u0027s wasn\u0027t really working either next slide please the server has probably had more reworking than anything else because that one we was really starting to spiral out of control into the size of what some the model and the amount that we were trying to do it there so a lot of the things that we\u0027ve decided that were really implementation specific we\u0027ve now just shifted out of the sole model because really there\u0027s no realistic way that you can try and cover things that are going to please every implementation in there so you know the best solution there was just not to try we also think a lot of the value of of having a common model here is around and where a lot of your investment in building network-wide configurations and you know the time that goes into that is actually around client configuration and orde-lees configuration pools the network objects and you know the other things around that and so we kind of said a relief if that stuff can be built and that can be transferable between different implementations then that\u0027s that\u0027s a much higher value than saying it we wonder model is also transferable for implementation specific functionality as well so I think we you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:27",
    "text": "know that\u0027s how we decided to structure it but I\u0027ll talk about that a little bit further in a second yeah so anything around things like database backends interface configuration we shifted this out there\u0027s no exists in the appendix I\u0027m guessing or mented into a particular container which is provided for exactly this purpose as it\u0027s necessary next slide please the same thing thought process went behind the client class selection process as well so Michael did some digging into I forget how many implementations it was but it was probably about five or something I he looked into and found that whilst the way that we classify incoming messages so that we can give them the right options the right select addresses from the right port and things this is a common problem that needs to be solved there\u0027s a lot of variance in how this is configured this is how it\u0027s described and and also kind of the idea behind how its structured so once again we thought that the best thing to do here was just to take that functionality out of the main model and provide a example set of this which we\u0027ve moved into an appendix and show how this would into work and show how you could you know take either the bond model that we have there or your users basis for building your own next slide please another thing that really was spiraling out of control in the original model that we had although the version 8 model was the modeling of DHCP options I mean I think we\u0027re up to one hundred and thirteen hundred and forty now or something like that with a few omissions in there and originally we\u0027ve taken this this idea of saying well we can you know from a modeling perspective the the structure of a DHCP option makes it fairly trivial although somewhat labor-intensive to to model these things so we tried to do this we tried to model every option that was out there we then tied ourselves in a different knot of saying well how do you deal with variance of implementations how do you deal with the fact that some options are only relevant for clients some are relevant for relays that are relevant for survey servers or pretty much any permutation of of those as well and we ended up with a rather nasty set of features and things that did you know it just the the more the options went in there the the uglier the whole thing got it was also going to make it very difficult to maintain and you know every time a new option gets ratified then we end up with an out-of-date model so we kind of went back to that and have cut the scope of those options down to just the relevant ones which exist in 84 15 we use an identity mechanism to define what whether it didn\u0027t with a client or server or relay and we augment the options based on what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:28",
    "text": "that identity is as as is relevant what this also actually if you can move on to the next slide what this also does is provides us with an easy way of making it extensible so the format that we defined in the 84 15 set of options we also can do for really as many as necessary and then the idea being that a device which implements those particular options can would obviously implement the yang model that would support those option to define the configuration of those options and so those can be loaded accordingly and then we get ourselves out of the future mess so again we\u0027ve gone down the line of providing an example of this we used our 330 319 because it\u0027s the first numeric set of options that don\u0027t exist in 84 15 and they\u0027re also nice and simple as well so it was a good candidate for for an example so we provide this yang module in there we show how that can be augmented into place there\u0027s also 9 or 10 guidelines that are in there which which describe how we\u0027re doing the naming conventions how well a bunch of different other things that would hopefully make it pretty easy for people in the future to follow the same kind of format and come up with a set of you know a yang module that will work within this mechanism and would be consistent with everything else that\u0027s going on there as well so this for something we talked about previously but is actually yeah we put into this version as well and I think the last slide 30 minutes for this seems a little bit ambitious so yeah we think we\u0027ve now got everything\u0027s in 84 15 which is kind of reset herself the scope to do one thing that I would be interested in here is for anyone who reviews or anyone who\u0027s had a look at this is the scope enough now I mean you know we\u0027ve pared it down so significantly have we gone too far and you know if so what are the the essential things that would to go into here to give us you know this framework and a basically fun fundamental set of models that can be used with a good you know a good way of being able to give extensibility as necessary in the future so I very interested in hearing about that the amount of work that\u0027s gone into this has been because there\u0027s been so much kind of restructuring rebuilding rewriting doubtless gremlins have crept in in here as ever the time caught up with us and so we were kind of rushing to get the the thing out of the door before the final deadline with that you know the big change is in place so it needs really more eyes on it from that respect as well yeah so I think that with this version its it feel and that you know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "the way that it\u0027s an is is just basking basking better than what we had in the past and from my perspective III think that we we\u0027re getting to the stage where you know it\u0027s ready to start so thinking about a worker last call process for it obviously subject reviews comments and to get it there so that\u0027s everything I\u0027ve got for you on this one any comments and thanks again and thanks for getting up very early for this suresh krisshnan so one thing I noticed like that seems wrong is the revision handling for this so this version is really not backward comparable although one so I think you need to bump up the revisions on the yang modules at the minimum in the edges of the Youngs modules themselves yeah so like all the modules need to bump up because they\u0027re in like 18:09 or something so I think that needs to get bumped up other thing that I think it looks good like I think the cleanup like to limit the scope is a good idea revolts and you foresee that there might be a companion document that does the remaining options and or how do you see that sort of you know I mean you you mentioned I haven\u0027t looked at details but you mentioned there were some naming convention guidelines and things like that but I\u0027m just wondering you know what you feel I mean it may be maybe it\u0027s too early to really think about it because we haven\u0027t gotten a base thing done but I think it is just a question that I have is what we likely need to do a follow on which we define the the rest of the options that are well I mean it depends I think with with option definitions there\u0027s a bunch of simple options out there that really you know they are exactly that they\u0027re just a DHCP option implemented by the server implemented by the clients and don\u0027t specify any additional functionality they did the 33-19 example are having there is that you know is exactly like that and so it\u0027s fairly easy in that case to just say right let\u0027s just go and define all of those things and you know and make a module will cover all of those but there\u0027s also a load of options that are related to you know in some cases some fairly complicated additional server functionality or client functionality and just having the options defined in there without having the configuration to make that stuff actually work I\u0027m thinking about things like come what\u0027s the course sorry it\u0027s very early in the morning lease query and stuff like that both of these query it things you know there\u0027s an option that\u0027s defined there but what it\u0027s actually specifying is a bunch of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:28",
    "text": "other configurational stuff that the server would need to be able to handle and so just defining the options necessary for these query is not a lot of use to you if you don\u0027t have the rest of the stuff that\u0027s in there however I think it would be possible to totally you know go through the option set and I mean I\u0027ve got lists that I\u0027ve made of where I\u0027ve attempted to do this down you know so yeah we could do a companion document that just says here\u0027s all the low-hanging fruit but you know when it comes to see the prefix delegate the least query and stuff like that it would need a much much more detailed look at how to do it okay so it sounds like there\u0027s potentially a lot more here if we were to model a big protocol yeah but yeah I mean I think though that you know we are in a place that or this does put us in a place whereby we\u0027ve got a good you know a solid framework that we can extend in that way you know with with some of these things it just comes down to whether anyone\u0027s interested enough to actually be I want to do the work around here I think you\u0027re right though you know maybe something that defined the 7277 you know generic option formats that would be useful in previous versions of the module I think we\u0027ve tackled that anyway so you know taking the thing and wrapping it inside the format that we\u0027re now decide that we\u0027re now using four options would be easy to do likewise the older options yeah I mean all of this could be put together in a company draft no problem well it may be that you know there\u0027ll be lots of drafts because one may cover the lease query and you know there\u0027s there\u0027s the the purely sort of data options and then there\u0027s the options that add new functionality right and so I think we have to look at how we would handle that you know cuz I think something like you know I mean we could maybe bundle all the lease query you know the the active the bulk and stuff into one document maybe we\u0027ll have to figure that out at some point yeah you know this don\u0027t do ask you there\u0027s also the question whether we really need to specify all the options I mean so on solver options our protocol options and they are generated by the server and they are not explicitly configured so like you brought up the lease query so the basically query there is nothing clearly no option value that you have specified in the server side this is just a configuration of you enable or disable the feature and this is nobody to option it\u0027s never an option in which the the lease query information is transported it\u0027s not one that I\u0027ve read for many many years and I forget what the contents of it are but I mean though that as Bernie says you know that I think there\u0027s two kinds of options here the there\u0027s ones that are just here\u0027s a for Matt here\u0027s a dataset and you know you implement it or you don\u0027t and there\u0027s things that require much more back in configuration on there and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:28",
    "text": "you know I mean if we can just divide the things up and then produce you know the relevant module to that as I say I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s labor-intensive but it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s easy to do okay okay are there people willing to review this document we have one hand out there okay well that\u0027s better than nothing but you know do take a look and send your comments to the authors so that they can do these cleanups and get help with that and you know we\u0027ll keep working away at this it is a it is a big challenge it is a big task they do this it\u0027s not as trivial as a okay so it seems that review to come up and I suppose then it would be what an updated version couple weeks from now and Daniel we can go with less cold right I mean two weeks sounds ambitious but you know as I say I mean I think you know we\u0027re in a pretty good place with it now so you know it\u0027s just really the final work to get over the line okay so a prefix delegating relay draft so the first things first I actually submitted the 0 2 version of this probably about an hour ago yeah apologies for this at the 0 1 went out and there were there were one or two things that we said that we would incorporate on there based on an early review comments that weren\u0027t telling there particularly the document status has now been changed to informational it was previously standards track that was a comment from Alexandre Petrescu I think come after zero zero is released so apologies for the late update on there it was just a case of trying to make sure that we had the the things in there that we said we didn\u0027t coorporate can you go to the first slide please okay so a 90 f-104 McCarroll Abrahamson did a presentation in v6 ops about operational problems that we as dr. telecom have seen with deploying v6 and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:30",
    "text": "one of the things that we mentioned on there was the trouble that we\u0027ve seen with a prefix delegation with when you have a separated relay function so in our particular case and i think this is a reasonably common case you have your client you have a DHCP relay which is also the first layer 3 hop in the network however it is just a relay it doesn\u0027t also implement the DHCP server function that\u0027s a centralized function elsewhere in the network because the term delegating route requesting routes our relay these are all kind of reserved terms and well understood to what they they mean and what they define we\u0027ve actually taken a new term in there to decide to describe this device which we\u0027re calling a delegating relay just to differentiate it from other things out there next slide please just one thing this is Bernie yeah I mean in in like a DOCSIS Network the Delhi in relay would be the cmts for example and I think in a morass network it\u0027s the beer ad right well the beer as one is I suppose it depends here really I mean I\u0027ve seen B and G based networks that implement you know both the relay function and the server functionality and that\u0027s not what we\u0027re talking about here okay but I\u0027ve seen other ones which will do a relay and you know we\u0027ll forward to a centralized server and I\u0027ve certainly seen the problems in this case as well so they would fall under what I\u0027m calling a delegating relay here we came up with the term really on the basis is just either working the the permutations of relevant words here and you know to find one that didn\u0027t already exist although I think it seems descriptive of what the task is you know the function that\u0027s being performed if there\u0027s any suggestions for a better name then you know I\u0027m happy to hear those no I wasn\u0027t trying to suggest that because cmts does a lot more but that\u0027s one of the functions that performs is acting as a delegating router it\u0027s a delegating delegating yeah okay so so you know that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the things where we in the setup for the document that we define is we\u0027re not interested in that particular function because as far as I\u0027m aware well actually I\u0027ve never really worked with those devices but I don\u0027t think they have these problems because you know the a lot of it arises from state synchronization and when the functions are co-located in a single device that state synchronization is much less of a problem okay so we\u0027ve seen a bunch of problems down down the years and these things really there is not a major vendors piece of hardware that we haven\u0027t seen one kind of problem or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:30",
    "text": "another in so these range for from the relay implementing logic about what it thinks the message flow should be and then trying to make decisions based on this logic about what should or should not be forwarded so did this basically says hey here\u0027s a message that I think is out of sequence there for I\u0027ve decided that this will not get relayed we\u0027ve seen cases particularly and alongside that whereby the relay will then create it will generate a message of its own and send it back to the clients in this case it\u0027ll say come up with something like a no binding error code or something like this I\u0027ve been through the specs and I mean correct me if I\u0027m wrong but I\u0027m not aware of any case where there is a valid message flow directly between the client and the relay like this but anyway this behavior you know that it can\u0027t be correct because essentially what it\u0027s done is blocked any messages coming forward and also this information coming from the client it\u0027s coming from the relay to the client plays havoc with the clients state machine as well and so you get all kinds of unwanted stuff at that end lots of PD State on reboot so I think this is fairly well known but if you\u0027ve got a large number of clients on there and no permanent storage or no mechanism for rebuilding that cable the relay comes back up again and everything has to be rebuilt from scratch and your black hole in traffic while that\u0027s taking place multiple PD leases is something that is very close to our heart we\u0027ve done a lot of and the way that this is handled by different devices is well all over the place so that\u0027s something that we wanted to try and kind of bring together we\u0027ve also seen some things about when duplicate Mac\u0027s are seen between two different devices or devices moved from one port to another and the behavior around what the relay does in that case is it\u0027s also unpredictable so the idea with this draft was really just to say these are the operational problems that we\u0027ve encountered out there enumerate those and provide a set of requirements that should enable us to solve those problems you know one of the one of the things that we\u0027ve fallen foul of is when we\u0027ve discussed these problems with with the vendors the respective vendors we\u0027ve got nothing to point to say this is how this is how this should be done this is the you know the required behavior here so that that was really the problem of trying to fix with this draft next slide please so yeah I mentioned about this in the intro 84 15 and 36 33 before that both name-checked the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:30",
    "text": "architecture that I\u0027m talking about here but it\u0027s very very thin on talking about how this is going to be done so this this this point here that\u0027s been made on the redistribution of protocols include the routing protocol all or whatever else yeah that\u0027s absolutely true but we actually declared this part of the functionality to be out of scope because you know there\u0027s many ways that this can be tackled and it\u0027s not really what we\u0027re interested in here is much more the interface between the client and the relay and also the relays forwarding and processing of messages towards the server so you know I think there is space for this one and it\u0027s kind of you know an omission from 184 15 covers at the moment next slide please so the way that we structured this and in the 0-2 update we now have an informational draft but we took the RFC 1784 type approach the requirements that we\u0027ve had in here do use 21 120 119 language but we have a description in the early on the document that kind of explains why this is done it\u0027s lifted straight from 1784 and you know my thinking was if it was so if it worked then then hopefully it will work now we\u0027ve divided the requirements into four different categories I don\u0027t with in this presentation actually go through what each of those requirements are because please read a draft for this but we\u0027re talking about things like message forwarding and and trying to make that as stupid as we possibly can do ie if a relay gets a messy a valid message then it should forward it shouldn\u0027t you know try and second-guess that should be done handling of multiple prefixes permitting these things to happen and also some information about recent time and maintenance that one\u0027s interesting and we kind of there\u0027s a little bit of verb I understand although it was kind of before my involvement with the idea I understand that when prefix delegation was originally defined there were some concerns raised about the the idea that effectively what we\u0027re doing here is snooping that we\u0027re looking into the timers onto there and and to some extent you know I I don\u0027t want to write a document that says you must snoop the traffic however for lease and time and maintenance I don\u0027t think there\u0027s anything else that you can do but we use deliberately loose language around this to say that there the relay must synchronize its timers must have a way of synchronizing the time is based on the reply messages that are sent the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:33",
    "text": "time is innocent reply messages that are sent by the server the routing as I said the scope for this we keep fairly low and I think there\u0027s only three requirements that are in there this is mainly about removing routes according to the timers and I think we\u0027ve got something in there as well about about holding the route even if the link goes down so if you\u0027ve got a link towards the client you get a link down events then essentially although the route cannot be active because the link is down it should not be deleted because it\u0027s still alike you know once that link gets we established if the if the timers haven\u0027t expired then it\u0027s still valid so we\u0027ve got a requirement to know about that service continuity is about really maintaining police\u0027s across reboots that comes down to either having some some kind of permanent storage or possibly implementing at least query mechanism and yes and the operational things which are basically being able to interact with the device then with the relay device providing the user with interface whereby they can check what\u0027s active there and and clear or you know the demo sir as required okay next slide please yes I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s a fairly new draft but it\u0027s not particularly it\u0027s not used in the scheme of these things so it would be great if we could get some feedback on this I\u0027m particularly interested in other operators who are using a similar kind of deployment topology possibly other vendors to see whether we\u0027ve first of all captured all the problems that are in there and you know and also whether we think the the requirements that we defined in there you know are enough to be able to cover all of these different problems that people see and yeah beyond that you will be willing to make a call for adoption in that well might be after this meeting to moaners UNH I well um I have two comments one is I really like this draft we you know we\u0027re the hardest thing we have finding is finding working real agents as great as that\u0027s been astounding runner up they do all kinds of strange things like you know don\u0027t know it\u0027s message types it\u0027s sort of an adventure so I think this will probably help the community builder it use for real agents my only other question was the draft name is obviously prefix delegation and we see the same problems with ia na s as well I think you should specify the stuff that matters about PD in here but I don\u0027t know if you should change the name to just that things real agents should do and then have a couple of right I mean this is an interesting common because I mean many of the things well actually a full disclosure I really don\u0027t have any operational experience of using relays with NIS and so if the problems are out "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:36",
    "text": "there I just don\u0027t know so yeah I mean the ones I\u0027m thinking about are those generic message ones right it doesn\u0027t matter what options inside of it you know if it\u0027s not 14 is Pacific of message that\u0027s pretty bad there was a it was all a couple of them I I don\u0027t feel super strongly about it there\u0027s something to think about okay I mean I\u0027ll have a look at across that and you know see if there\u0027s something that we can because it might be just as easy to fix it as not yeah okay thanks very much Eric line I think section 4.1 requirement G one a delegating router must forward messages bidirectionally between the client and server without changing the contents of the message and I\u0027m wondering how does that comport with sixty sixty seven eighty eight the line ID option because I think that gets inserted right it doesn\u0027t get the the client request doesn\u0027t get any capped and sent to a server the relays encapsulate though it is encapsulation fair enough fair enough thanks hmm this is very volts and I think that a lot of the issues also existed in in the fourth with just address assignment you know because they were similar sort of problems and stuff and I think there\u0027s also been a lot of work by the sabe working group in sort of defining how some of these intermediate devices because they sabi stuff is you know on switches and other forwarding engines to assure that they are only you know if they\u0027re monitoring and what devices are out there what they\u0027re in their case it\u0027s address assignment now previous application that they\u0027re dealing with but you know if the device the switch or router is is monitoring addresses advice has they have specified that fairly well so I would encourage you maybe to look at that and see what they have to say about some of these issues I mean having state in multiple places it\u0027s always a bad idea because it\u0027s easier to get out of sync and we already have it in two places right we have it in the server and the client because the client s state now when you throw another device in in between their it gets even worse so I mean in preparation for writing this I did look into the Savi stuff and originally when I was kind of thinking well what what would the contents of the draft be um you know I thought well that you know the specification of the different state machines in the in the way that Savi does was what was going to be necessary here however I\u0027m looking at that and thinking about it I I\u0027m not sure it\u0027s the right answer the reason being that you know operationally I think we have something that we can treat as has been something like a black box here you know we know what we\u0027re putting in we know what we want to get out we know what the behavior of this thing should be savvy kind of goes much "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:36",
    "text": "further than this and says this is how you\u0027re going to do all of that stuff and I\u0027m not sure I mean certainly from an operational perspective I\u0027m not sure I want to have to specify all of that and I\u0027m not sure it necessarily does need to be you know what was what we\u0027re sorely missing was somewhere that I could point to with vendors and say this is how it should behave and and how you do that I really I\u0027m not really that interested in I\u0027ve also had a similar discussion about saying have you implemented savvy are you willing to implement savvy and the answer there is pretty much a no in a you know if it\u0027s not already in existence then it\u0027s seen as something which is a pretty high overhead for implementation and and you know so as I was hoping or I\u0027m hoping with this case that we can take this black box approach and it\u0027s going to be enough yeah certainly I think maybe that\u0027s the first step is to you know then if that doesn\u0027t succeed maybe we may have no partner right would you agree though that trying this way you might be you know maybe enough in the first instance I mean I think I actually went looking at the you know docks of specifications quickly to see did they ever spell out you know all of the stuff that the cmts has to do to to keep up its state and the answer is I couldn\u0027t find it now maybe you know maybe if I look harder I\u0027ll find it but I did not find it they do have a section which kind of says you know here some general guidelines and so you know I probably should point you to that that I found and it was kind of interesting because you know it even hinted that you know there\u0027s a lot of you know in this case it\u0027s it\u0027s home routers and stuff like that that only will support like one PD and so you know have seen multiple beauties and there is a problem and stuff and they said you know this is hopefully something that will will be resolved in the future that these devices will be more capable of dealing with multiple PD so it\u0027s it\u0027s you know I think that\u0027s some of the things that we have to put in here is that these if you\u0027re gonna do this that you should be for you know you should be capable of handling multiple prefix allegations whether they\u0027re in one eye or multiple eye AP news and stuff right sorry further from the relays perspective you mean from the yeah from the delegating relays perspective right I\u0027ll have to I mean I think this I can\u0027t remember if we say this explicitly or not I mean we certainly talk about things like restricting the number of prefixes that appliance can support but I can\u0027t and I think we say that it has it supports multiples actually I don\u0027t actually have the relative thing in front of me but I can certainly check it it\u0027s just I think it\u0027s just something we have to go and check to make sure that we cover that case and stuff because "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:38",
    "text": "there\u0027s also I mean there\u0027s another discussion that\u0027s happening in v6 ops about how the CTE themselves need to behave especially in terms of the devices that are in the home or you know in in the end Network and you know making sure that the router advertisements are properly handled and things like that which is somewhat related to this because it\u0027s it\u0027s you know how the in this case it\u0027s really how the client from the DHCP server or you know the client in this case here handles it but it\u0027s it\u0027s somewhat related to this whole problem of these devices are not acting in the best manner provide a good experience and user is there a discussion on that topic week we is there what language is there a discussion on that topic yes it\u0027s in it\u0027s in v6 ops who is it that has the draft is it Fernando Fernando yeah yeah okay yeah so he\u0027s got a draft there that talks about the CPEs it\u0027s themselves how they handle stuff and that they need to handle it correctly yeah okay but then we don\u0027t have a topic a subject today no there\u0027s nothing okay I don\u0027t think I\u0027ll be in the v6 ops one when\u0027s that Thursday yeah we\u0027d have to check the agenda to see when it\u0027s yeah two sessions if I\u0027m not correctly right but I\u0027ve been given the time difference it requires too much yeah okay yeah no it\u0027s good work and I look forward to it progressing and we definitely you know when you feel it\u0027s ready we should definitely I think you\u0027re a working group call for adoption okay okay so I have a question for Suresh so this is information about the comment is it allowed to use an automatic language I know that\u0027s 7080 for dieter to make so it\u0027s generally frowned upon to do that like I don\u0027t think there\u0027s any straight-up prohibition for doing it but some people do think it\u0027s kind of an end run around the system if people if tracked uses it so it\u0027s not so 7080 for kind of stuff like works yeah yeah does have a big section on how it\u0027s being used I think Tim you\u0027re one of the co-authors and I think you\u0027re using it the same way right use no I I cut cut the text progress oh yeah yeah so is informational the right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "target status for this I think so yes but it could go either way really right like but so the denominator text is really for interoperability so if you need is for interoperability I was just say like you know switch to propose standard and let\u0027s get it done right so that\u0027s what I would recommend if but if it\u0027s like more about like requirement levels not necessarily for interoperability we can go either way but I would really recommend like switching to a standard strap but surely it\u0027s from the main thean interoperability draft isn\u0027t it I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s so kinda how you interact with clients and service that probably from other vendors so ok I switch it like it\u0027s earlier done then later like no I don\u0027t want to do like an idea Colin and I use eval and then try to switch it right ok I know it\u0027s something that comes up right like very frequently even though there\u0027s like no written guidance so it\u0027s little bit flexible but I like I\u0027m sure like you know you\u0027re going to have like three discuss on just the language originally raised the point about the target standard status for this but I can\u0027t recall what his rationale was for it is Alexandre in the room no I don\u0027t think so no ok ok I think I\u0027ll go back to alexandra on the mailing list then and and just make that you know update you on this discussion ok ok thanks right thanks ok so just a comment so I looked at seventy eighty four and there\u0027s the section that only looks like it says that unlike other IETF documents the keywords must must not and so on in this document are not used at this describing one tonight and your document says that they are used okay I\u0027ve made this okay well look I mean if we\u0027re going to take it back to you know in the in the 0-3 update then if we\u0027re going to go back to stand a strike on there then hopefully it\u0027s an honest you yeah yeah okay thank you very much I think that\u0027s everything from me this morning hi I\u0027m Tim oh noes UNH ah I\u0027m going to talk a little bit today about advancing on the dhcpv6 center to an Internet standard or full standard the DHCP Charter has a third I\u0027d a minute that is about issuing an update to the DHCP base specification after so much time to advance it to an Internet standard and that\u0027s what this is about so a couple things just housekeeping "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:44",
    "text": "stuff this is all from RFC 60 410 they\u0027re really four bullet points under there are two independent interoperable implementations in this case right that spec actually has three different types of right it\u0027s got a server relay which we just talked about on a client so we\u0027d have to find several implementations for all of those no errata to the specification no unused features in the specification and no IPR on any of the things in it so currently 84 or 15 there\u0027s no rodda\u0027s on it yet and there\u0027s no it doesn\u0027t update anything it\u0027s not been updated by anything at this point so it doesn\u0027t have any of those and it doesn\u0027t have any IPR on it yet so all those are check boxes for all of those features which leaves us with a couple of to-do items demonstrate interoperability of to clients and servers and I mess this up there should be relays on there to come comma relays so we got to find a couple of different implementations which I\u0027ll talk about some ideas we have in a next slide about that and then we need to confirm all the features in 84 15 are useful and nothing should be removed we went through some of this when we went from when we merged 33 15 and 36 33 we removed some with features and there\u0027s a couple more we should probably talk about as a group before we move it over so the first to solve the first problem the UNH Iowa would like to host a virtual plug fests for DHCP people who are interested in doing this I say virtual you know the advantage of being part of the universities we have a lot of students who want to learn things so we were thinking about taking a week in particular we\u0027re looking at the week of spring break nothing says spring break like dhcpv6 a lot of our students work the whole week that week so it would be a good week for us to do it so we say virtual because a lot of the plugfest we do we require people to be on site we don\u0027t think this one is going to require people to be there on site obviously if a group of people want to come on site and they all want to work through the issue be more than happy to have them there but in this case we were thinking virtual we\u0027re gonna do it for free in this case because we think you know we want the students to gain the experience we can get our hands on the individual clients servers relay agents all of those things whatever test plane we come up with we\u0027re gonna use as the basis for the v6 ready one that\u0027ll come out there currently is a v6 ready one for the older specs we have to update it so we would use whatever we find from this and ship it off to the ready logo committee as an extra anything we find that doesn\u0027t work obviously we would report back to the DHCP Group saying hey we found these features work fine these things didn\u0027t work so well stuff like that in particular we would really focus around the updates between the old stuff and the new stuff I think there\u0027s old stuff and 3315 that might not work but I don\u0027t think it\u0027ll be as interesting as the update stuff that didn\u0027t make it through also during the plugfest we\u0027ll see if there\u0027s any features that no one has implemented at all we report back any of that if we don\u0027t see any support "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:44",
    "text": "in any of the implementations for certain things we report those back this is a more generic question about that so unused features you know is there anything it\u0027s in the spec that anyone\u0027s aware of that you know isn\u0027t used that one you know I put IATA here this comes up all the time I don\u0027t know if people find it useful we should remove it should we just leave it in there I think now would be the time to discuss it again people when I talk about it okay so the optional reason why we kept ITA is to make it easier for other implementations to decline in compliance with this I think it\u0027s markers deprecated so the new implementations don\u0027t have to implement this right I my thing is I don\u0027t I\u0027ve not seen in all of our tests and I\u0027ve never seen a client ask for 130 volts I thought Windows client said I don\u0027t they may not today but they did at one point I think they did at one point my last survey of them I did not see any but I will say I\u0027m you know maybe there\u0027s bits you can twiddle to make that happen it doesn\u0027t do it by default for sure I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s something in the registry or some configuration you can turn it on that I won\u0027t come to but I you know I we haven\u0027t seen any at the lab but that doesn\u0027t mean they don\u0027t exist I just I\u0027m just not aware of any deployments that are heavily using those yeah to remove a feature we\u0027d have to republish the document yes yes if we removed yes you have to republish it I guess yeah hadn\u0027t thought about that yeah um we we\u0027ll post all the stuff about the virtual bloodfest you know the main thing we want will have a registration page for people to be able to register to but we really want people\u0027s code however we can get it whether it\u0027s on a VM on a dock or whatever it is if you can get us code for your DHCP implementation that\u0027s doing 80 for 15 we have lots of eager students who would love to work with that stuff so um well I\u0027ll keep the DHCP list updated with the details of it when when do you think the ipv6 ready logo stuff will be in here guy asked me this I think if I had to guess I would guess May they do their major releases in November in May so my guess is we would be aiming from a time frame I haven\u0027t talked to the other labs about this but I don\u0027t think it\u0027ll be a problem since we have a background it\u0027s not like we\u0027re making something new so I think this is just updating yeah so I don\u0027t think this will be a major problem that\u0027s cool and that should help us greatly Suresh do you have any comments "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:44",
    "text": "about the process where there\u0027s anything more we have to do already yeah so description so I really hope we don\u0027t have to remove this so it\u0027s like a easier process that way so there is a status change process that we have in place like I kind of got it down pat because I got rid of ipv5 and v7 and so on so I know like how to do this process like and here it is here so if he gets on next then he has to do that too but I think that\u0027s an easier process then doing the document through the whole last call process right because everything opens up so you cannot just say my idea of last calling dis change right like yeah the whole document comes out people are going to come up with things so I I think really like you know if like you know some implementation implements this I\u0027ll just keep it and then go on right even if it\u0027s like not widely used if it\u0027s at least implemented we have a case to just keep it on and move on right and I don\u0027t think it\u0027s like significantly different from i na to like have like too much extra code like just hanging around there for that so I would just say like you know go for the standard status change process if possible and March is like if he write because it could be there in my term or the next ad stuff so like we have to figure out like you know how the reports come on okay thank you so that brings us to the end of the agenda I think you know just as a quick summary the problem statement draft we\u0027re gonna you\u0027re going to change the title I think you want to leave the name you know the document ID itself the same you know the draft title or not the title the draft name I guess isn\u0027t waiting to say leave that the same and once that\u0027s done and if there\u0027s any other comments that you\u0027ve received or whatever we can you know hopefully initially then working to the blast call for that document the yang model we need reviewers as Ian requested so anybody that can please do so for the dhcpv6 prefix delegation stuff in was going to look at the 2119 language stuff and maybe there\u0027s a few edits that he\u0027s got to do still and then hopefully we can do a working group call for adoption and for the advancing 84 15 we\u0027re gonna you know look out for the plugfest information the virtual club fests and hopefully people will submit the their implementation so that we can get sufficient coverage in that testing you know they they I mean they they really should be 84 or 15 implementations not like 33:15 3633 implementations so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:47",
    "text": "that\u0027s one of the key things that I think we have to make sure that they adhere to that I you know I don\u0027t know if there\u0027s any I mean that may be we want to think about is there any sort of tests to sort of confirm that you know somebody saying it you know maybe something about 70 RC 75 50 handling of multiple yeah the main one we\u0027re gonna mess around with it\u0027s really easy to tell is the t1 and t2 timers because you have to match them up since that\u0027s the that\u0027ll give it away really really ok great well thanks everybody anybody have any last comments okay France is a bomb so we got discussion about feature in disappeared from response expect which wants to cry firewood to should put in its response France sounds to copy sir client address when firms in front to acknowledge a packet it seems a good idea because they see PV for specification it\u0027s sign out about this and it seems at least some people believe it\u0027s it was a good idea program is draft will Experian in 12 so 7 years ago I don\u0027t know why it it was experienced I this is basically provides me before I joined HC but my understanding is that the major driving force behind this was David Hawkins and he changed jobs and so basically they drop diet so I don\u0027t know what to do perhaps we should discuss about it in the Middle East I guess if you want to pick up the draft and can try to continue it that would be something to do you know we\u0027d probably have to know we\u0027d have to go through the working group adoption call again and stuff like that because it is kind of a long-dead document now so you know you might you might want if you want to pick it up and you think it\u0027s useful and important work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:48",
    "text": "you take a look at me not so much would it be okay I mean the zero six expired in 2020 twelve I personally don\u0027t mind like just having the draft like and try to because I got working of last call you\u0027re gonna find out but it\u0027s up to you like very gonna find out if their support for it or not right and if it\u0027s something simple like might be like just filing an errata might be like a thing saying hey this is like some kind of clarification on the original doc and then we can go from there too but either way like I\u0027m okay like I don\u0027t want to like put too much process here so if we can just drive it and add like Francis as the editor and and keep moving I\u0027m okay okay so this is like if he wants to be the editor but yeah okay so it is this is like three pages of the actual text and I assume you also have no issue with us adopting the the prefix delegating relay work okay all right thank you everybody and hopefully everybody signed the blue sheets if you haven\u0027t please do I don\u0027t know where they are right now I mean one is up here but I think we just used one where is the blue sheet does somebody have it okay there marcasite hey listen well we one of the issues "
  }
]