[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:25",
    "text": "my co-chair is not here there he is i thought you were abandoning me i realized uh i was planning to actually go to um uh to jw people are still floating okay um um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:03",
    "text": "three weeks ago i'm still falling and they told me i could go for as long as a month i just test regularly to make sure it's not also right i was on an airplane like two weeks into sars guy two rows behind me cops and immediately goes i just have a car announcement because everyone it was just so funny like but it just felt bad because he also had a cough so he shouldn't be yelling [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:05",
    "text": "immediately all right you want to get started sure is that working sounds good go ahead can people hear me am i miked good uh yes clinton right um welcome to rswg um if you're not especially rswg go go somewhere else um i guess come in the next slide do i do that i do that yeah okay great i knew there was a oh purpose so yes so there's some confusion about exactly what noel should be shown um which we'll cover later in this meeting for the purposes of this discussion um please be aware of the note well here's slide one um and you can mentally substitute rswg for ietf in some but not all of these sentences so in particular you're still consenting to the ietf i'm making a photographic record apparently as opposed to the rswg so please be familiar with this and your next slide you know have some rfcs um which again may or may not apply um so assuming you understand these races i've explained them to you um we'll move on um so we had like a relatively short agenda um you know this got formed um so mostly we're hoping to just sort out some ground rules um so we want to talk about four things um um sort of get a sense of what people think um you know the scope and and of the work and acceptance criteria are and i know elliot had posted some thoughts outside of his house's criteria um let's talk about some logistics with everybody's favorite topic being github um a um cover basically then we had a set of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "proposals for like um you know things you might look at and just like make sure everybody's aware of them and see if anyone anyone strikes anybody's fancy and really want people to want to work on it and then i guess all their business in case there is a business thank you does anybody object to this agenda as i've explained it no okay so just to remind you this is our charter um this is in fact pretty much the only description of what our scope is um but the key word here is policy um and i guess members of the community and collaborate so this is just like background for um you know what it is um we're supposed to be discussing um next slide i'm sorry with that oh yeah sorry yes um so here is the description of the workflow for what we're supposed to be doing um which looks which will look very familiar to you and that it will look very much like an ietf working group where people produce proposals we accept adopt them and then eventually you know we refine them and we ship them out is there a second slide with us or this is the first no okay right so with that in mind i think um you know this is our the chairs put about like what how to sort of drive this um again so if someone poses some new work our theory is it better be about policy number one um the radius of enthusiasm over the topic because otherwise we're not getting anything done we think we have some kind of consensus in the solution um even if there's not consensus on the proposal itself and finally that we have a proposal that seems like a plausible starting point and again this is just like me like mirroring all the crap that we all normally do in a nighttime group um and of course these are all decided usually by rougher people consensus so i know there's some discussion on the list does anybody think that this is like a bad place to start or oh robert thank you i can't see hi hecker i just wanted to ask you to stay closer to the microphone um you're fading out for the remote people okay well about as close as i can be without like actually ah i see all right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "how about that great so this is not intended to be like holy writ but does anybody think this is like radically wrong or wants to prove some revisions or some other criteria that i missed or something like that comments here yeah i don't think this is wrong but it's like it's still very blurry i'm not sure how helpful this is but we will see okay what we're expecting is to sit and wait for proposals to come in yeah but i'm just saying like all of these points it's like when proposal comes and we actually don't know for sure it's about policy right we have to have the discussion and we don't know at the beginning like if we reach consensus or whatever so like these are good goals but not sure how much much that helps okay uh elijah so so one thing that came up earlier today in with the rsap is that there's also this um issues that might arise from the rpc that they bring to the rsap and the rsep decides policy work needs to happen and they should then be brought here so even when there's no enthusiasm you got to do something occasionally because the rpc depends on it but otherwise this is this is good i'm i guess i'm going to make lars this point in a different way which is there are some things that are sort of like it's more expert review than policy and yeah and i think we it's probably worth explicitly saying that that not everything is in scope here and there's some stuff that needs to be pushed down to a level so that people can keep to keep the documents flowing yeah that is that was it that was this is trying to capture that but may have failed to do so so i'm not posing to like write a draft here but this like this is just the like we just want to make sure people didn't think some radical other structure was needed okay oh nothingham"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:03",
    "text": "all right now wait is that work okay sorry it always makes me click like five different buttons um i kind of wonder it seems to me we might be able to take some of the heat out of the policy versus not policy issue if there were a mechanism to say okay that's something that you know we've brought to the community's attention it's not policy but it can go to you know the rpc in a discussion in a relatively transparent way and and what i'm thinking about is i think it was it was mentioned earlier on uh about having an issues list for the working group and you know so if if i i feel like there are some things which are are you know maybe surfing below or just around the level of whether what is or is not policy rather than kind of face planting the working group into having a big argument about what is and is not policy if if we have an issue we say okay that's something that we would like to improve or that you know it's not really you know pure policy but at least we get it out in front of the community the rpc can hit it off and it's not something that you know somebody says oh no you should just go talk to the rpc directly i think that might take a little bit of the heat out of this kind of zone if that makes sense uh just something to to think about thank you paul paul hoffman so many working group mailing lists are for working group work plus other stuff that's not working group and stuff like that and that can get really messy but also it's really terrible to say no you can't talk about that here and there's nothing else so i'm not proposing a solution but some of the stuff that people said before about there might be an rpc thing that comes in and such like that that could be not working group work that's on the mailing list that just needs to be looked at and said okay we know that that's not policy we know that's not happening and treat it like a normal working group mailing list where other stuff might or might not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "happen um having said that that's a really attractive nuisance about everything in the in the rfc editor series so i'm not saying that's a good idea so so let me show you the next slide and um we sort of anticipated that we're going to end up with some sort of issue tracker so this is logistics but i think it goes to your point that they're going to be sort of issues looking for a draft looking for people to pick up and champion the idea um and gather together some thought that yes this belongs here and we want to write this up and we want to get the working group to work on it and then independently we're going to have once someone proposes a draft and adopts it which is really the main portion of the workflow as stated in 9280 then we're gonna have a draft to work with and we'll have issues on that draft as the working group goes through it and works on it so i think yeah we're gonna have those issues where people are well we should think about what this is and whether this belongs here and that discussion can go on and sort of have that as a parallel track to oh and here's the work that we're actually trying to get done and write a new policy for does that sort of go to what you were looking at paul nods is that up and down miriam yeah mia could have been again i just want to remind this group that there's still the rfc interest mailing list and that will stick around so it's like there's it's not like there's no other place to go good so um with regard to logistics like i said we we've already seen a number of issues both in the form of drafts but more mostly in the form of hey here's something i think this group might work on so we've been talking about it we're thinking that we can simply use github as the issue tracker but we are not led to that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "either way discussion of any of the items takes place on the mailing list um but we will need some sort of tracking device if people have strong feelings about it one way or the other uh please do mention but otherwise we're you know just going to figure out what feels comfortable and go ahead and do that like i said it'll end up on the mailing list one way or the other um so if there's no comments on that we've got the list of things that people have brought up on the mailing list and if people want to just give a quick this is what i'm thinking about this is what i think needs to be done and you are present in the room uh except robert jumps in and and has a comment robert go ahead no i just have a uh topic that i wanted to call out so put me at the end of the queue after the people that are already on the side have had an opportunity sounds good um so uh this is do we have a second yeah we have two slides of this um so i'll just call off issues and if people want to come up and say something about them please do um paul did you want to talk about the the documenting the relationship stuff just super briefly because it should be on the mailing list and right as we could see people it's complicated i wanted to see if there was interest it seems like there's interest there may be interest in doing it a very a different way we already have a worked out example from earlier um but i didn't know if people had burnt out on it and didn't want to deal with it or want to deal with it and i got the feeling people want to deal with it and then we'll have to figure out splitting things out and such like that but yeah and and i mean going back to the logistics issue and you know ecker and i haven't talked about this particularly but my sense is you know for we don't have a draft yet we're trying to figure it out ecker and i are here to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "moderate that discussion and and sort of move it along but it doesn't become a working group item until there there's an agreed pair of or you know three or ten authors who say yeah we're going to work on this document put the draft out there and say we want this adopted so we'll we'll manage those discussions but you know and so this discussion we can continue on the list until you all decide yep we want a draft and we want to get this adopted um is brian in the room i didn't see him no brian's not around does anyone want to comment on brian's proposal with regard to updating and versioning um so i mean this was basically the perennial question of like referential integrity for you know when you talk about sip or rfcs and you get abyss like how does that work and how do you know do you have standard numbers or or numbers or whatever so um that's what this that's what this topic was about um so i don't know if people have enthusiasm for is there's an enthusiasm for that uh but that's what this topic was um and i can just go i mean i i i put these in so i can go through these um um this next topic um and so i think our plan is basically to take each one of these and make an issue about it and then and and and then i think you know allow you know allow you know i'll probably just cut and paste out of the emails that introduce them so that we'll have a description and then you know paul if i don't do it properly you can feel free to like out of the issue whatever um so this next topic in fact was something what miriam was just talking about which is and pete were what's going on the rswg list versus the rfc interest list um then these next two are there apparently a number of rfcs that are either in an unknown unknown status or in a legacy stream and are we going to attempt to repair that and if so how um uh this next topic is apparently the ieb stream is not chartered with his bcps and it has done so and so we have to manage that somehow so these three are all like we created a mess in the past and do we care um next slide uh right can rfcs be on more than one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "stream um um i'm not sure it's natural it's policy but what should be the rc email announcement um the um you know there's a lot of questions the boilerplate whatever um this author ethics point um i know this came up in the ietf list um was you know what is your responsibility as an as an rfc author and a draft author if you're taking what someone else has done but you're not you're not making them an author in your document in terms of acknowledgement or whatever um i think you know especially in cases where you're essentially just taking someone else's document wholesale which is permitted by the copyright but maybe not by maybe not by better practice um a topic that came with this morning um format evolution um i think you know um the more i look at 90 280 the more i see it as a framework for creating self-governance rather than a framework for self-governance and so you know we didn't actually write down who's responsible for actually doing the pieces of format evolution um and so we'll if we want to have the format evolve um it seems to me probably like looking at it personally it seems to me nobody's actually empowered to involve the format right now and so they're working um paul you may want to disagree so um um often um i read 9280s that is absolutely part of part of of this working group um that is it is policy what what is an rfc is policy and since you know the the format is you know how does the rfc exist as bits on on disk much less on the wire i totally thought it was that if i purposely wasn't involved in the creation of 9280 if it wasn't there that seems like a massive oversight because that's one of the pieces of work that's been ongoing for years i guess my sense is that there was going to be some arguing about exactly what was policy was mechanism in terms of like so this worker you'd be deciding like what the names of the tags are but um i think we're certainly empowered to direct my senses we're empowered to direct that work but exactly how we divide up that work is perhaps the question that needs to be designed michael i think robert robert"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "yeah so um i will enter into that conversation i think that this working group is the place that we have to do the evolution of of at least the grammar and probably is the group that's going to be the touchstone on dealing with some of the technical issues like if we decide to make radical changes to the way rfcs are presented um like changing out the css entirely for the way the um rscs are presented um on the rfc editor's website for example um i really do think that we need to have a a a venue that is consensus based and i was expecting this group to be that group so that i can get out of the queue i will bring my other existing topic up you can add it to the slide if you want or just put in the issue tracker later i would like to see this group take on um changing the policy for um internet graphs and the rscs to allow utf-8 throughout the document and not just in names elliot hey uh good afternoon everyone and good evening to those in europe and i guess i think it's good morning though to those who are down under in in australia and new zealand um i want to just comment about um the format evolution we were i think in in intentionally vague in creating in stating things um in terms of what exactly the rswg uh wants to pass judgment on and i say wants to because i think at the end of the day the rswg can pass judgment on whatever it wants"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "policy wherever it wants to but with the understanding that we can we as the rswg can break things very badly for uh everybody if we if if we get it wrong so um we should just choose wisely but it's also one of the reasons we should walk and not run in this process and try and just step through you know learn as we go we don't have a lot of running code which is say we have none in the in terms of you know how these groups operate you know you saw the sort of fumbling that we did in the rsab today we're going to do more of that as we get through this process and we'll just have some patience to try and figure out how to draw the line in each case all right thanks mike mike st johns i want to go back to what ecker said a little bit earlier about how the document is more of a framework is is a framework not really a finished thing for what this group is going to be doing um the charter isn't a charter it's sort of a statement of interest and it may be worthwhile to spend maybe the first month or so trying to say what we're going to start with and just sort of get a basket around that otherwise we're going to be piecemealing ourselves out into a lot of space and we won't make progress on anything going back to what elliott was talking about i wasn't saying anything but the rsab is the final decider on whether or not it's policy or not i mean you can say its policy here but if they disagree it's not gonna it's not gonna move forward so having a discussion with the rsab at some point on the way to get a line or sort of a fuzzy line might be a useful thing as well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "thank you all right he's back thanks um eric and uh thanks mike uh now i'll comment sort of with the you know my rsb member hat i don't think that policy was a criteria for making a decision if if it doesn't break the stream and i don't perceive it as if i if i don't perceive it breaking the stream or breaking the long-term interests of the series that's sort of the the the measure i think those are the measures that 9280 states and those are the measures by which i will judge something in the you know as the art with my rsap hat on just that's my own personal view um in terms of how to interpret 9280 and i just want you guys to know going forward that's that's how i'll look at it sorry me again um ellie i i understand where earlier it's coming from but at some point in time you have to keep this group from basically micromanaging the people who are doing the publication and pieces of that and that's why i'm saying that there ought to be some discussion about where that line is drawn because otherwise we're going to get into trouble really quickly so mike i tend to agree with you but i also don't think we have to be too um theoretical about it that to a certain extent as the discussion develops in the group about a particular proposal i think we will be able to say hey this is or isn't a policy question for these reasons and then develop what we think the principle underlying that is as we go so i don't think we have to spend a whole lot of upfront time sort of imagining what is and isn't policy we can take on issues and develop that policy as we're working i just want to add that um that 9280 contemplates and in fact expects that the rcb members will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "participate in the discussion and so i would hope that as we have these kinds of individual things that they would in fact say you know well we think this is your micromanaging now and like my rsv hat like i might be sad about that or vice versa mr hoffman paul hoffman so one thing that's not on this list that has come up in my mind a few times is as we are doing policy for our seas that kind of slumps into policy for internet drafts it certainly co we could limit it to the last internet draft or or the internet draft that gets sent to the rfc editor must blot a blah but then everyone knows that there should be ones before i don't have an answer for that i know that's not in our charter but a bunch of the stuff we've talked about will probably slump back into the internet draft series whether we are being on it or not don't know how to do that but i think we should be aware because there are many people who would say internet drafts can do anything don't limit us there largest behind you strongly agree hey last i got now i have two things to say so one i disagree because it's the isg who was in charge of the internet draft in the format right and so and so uh there'll be blood i guess if this group wants to go into that space um but that said right um our inner drafts are produced using the same tools as rfcs and therefore there's a natural bleed over but which is what you said right so we gotta sort of have some communication and and we want that but um policy for internet drives is set by the isg the the thing i actually got in the line for something else and um we've been talking about you know this group does policy but it's actually doing policy for the series right and specifically in my mind that means this is about the the what do you want from the series not the how do you get to the thing right which would be the production"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "center's responsibility and and other groups the streams maybe and maybe thinking about it this way sort of eliminates some things or rules them in our other scope i mean that's how i've been thinking about it surfaces i mean i was thinking like one might say you know we want the rfcs to render in two columns and we'd let like robert figure out how to do it like css did it but we wouldn't be like you know here it's like you know here's here's here's where to use css grid or masonry or you know or or flexbox gene hi there gene mahoney and um i am putting on my rpc hat and saying hey um i will be participating in this working group and providing the rpc perspective on these questions welcome okay well that was good um probably got that one done um the other two items that exist are um concern about errata trolls um this is brian again um are we seeing a bunch of errata that's sort of messed up um and should there be any more gateways on onorata to make it more difficult to post them um i'm not taking a position on this i'm i'm merely um i'm merely noting this is an item that came up um and the final item is the one i raised earlier which is um like what if anything we didn't need to do the wall text to make and and maybe associate rfc is to make it properly match the practices we have here so um when i looked at the noble text earlier i noticed that basically it seemed to have three broad chunks um one the anti-harassment policy which we all agreed in 92 80 is that we're going to adopt the itf and investment policy so it's merely a matter of doing whatever screwing around with an oel to make it properly point that out um the um then there's the uh um ipr sections um which it's actually um 9280 sort of an admission it's not actually saying anything about whatsoever um and that may be sort of unfortunate um but presumably we have to since we take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "since we're taking the um so we're taking things into our drafts then we're presumably expecting the boilerplate um but it's worth noting that uh um it's not clear we incorporated the patents by the patent on thing by reference um so that'd be nice to work out and then finally there's sort of the material about like you know where you're consenting to being photographed when you go to the meeting and when you're like um you know agreed to have the itf process your data and whatever i suspect those just those just stay as long as you're an itf meeting because it's part and parcel being itf meeting um in any case i'm not saying with zelda's now but um this into which people like would like to take a look at the notewell and be sad about it or such revisions that would be helpful because we just took the itf one for the moment and with that we have all their business um which may be nothing but maybe people who want to stand and speak for something important or just or suggest that we discuss one of these topics in more detail oh yeah uh one quick one this is pete by the way one quick one for that came up this morning in rsab um my thought was that meeting-wise we're going to do face-to-face um uh simultaneous with ietf meetings even though we are not officially an ietf working group um and you know we can do everything else on the mailing list and there's no expectation short of emergencies to have interims um so if if folks think that that is an acceptable way to go we do need to work out with the secretariat because this is a broader community you might want to attend the rswg at least remotely without attending the ietf meeting and paying meeting fees um that we may need to work out something to have that happen but uh beyond that the logistics seemed we'll meet here if you're coming to the ietf meeting you can meet in person otherwise you can meet remotely uh lars yeah that was a good summary thank you and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "i was i came mostly here because if we're meeting at the ietf right so there's this text in the rfc that says you know the the the stream manager source what the term was uh our sub members should actively participate in the working group right which we are trying to do however we are also like pretty busy during the week and so um we probably have created a little bit of scheduling nightmare here um because you need a whole bunch of like four people ideally right that own the stream um so if one of us isn't here maybe at one of those music it doesn't necessarily mean that we're not interested in actively participating just or put it on the record it might be there's conflicts understood uh john clenson two two things briefly one is a comment on lars's comment which is the given the difficulty of scheduling this meeting along with everything else during the iatf week uh in addition to the rs a b problem there are ordinary working group problems there's a working group i should really be in now and uh and i discovered that even remotely i can't be into it two places at the same time and that might be a very strong argument for holding a significant fraction of these meetings if not all of them on an interim basis and entirely remote um the second observation which is why i put my hand up uh is that we went through brian's list or the portion of brian's list which made it in the agenda uh rather quickly and i apologize for joining late if this has already been covered but i want to make certain that we as as was said turn these things into tickets and and address them on the on the list uh because i noticed that a lot of comments on them through no fault of the people though through no falter back or other summarizing just did not go into the depth that those bullet point highlights were intended to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "to raise based upon uh office conversations i've had with brian about some of them no absolutely and one of the chairs uh first duties is to get an issue tracker set up get those things in um and get discussion going as i said earlier and i don't know if you were present for it we sort of view before there's a draft about the topic uh we we will moderate any discussion that goes on on the list um or in meetings on particular topics until uh you know such momentum has occurred that we get someone to write it down in a draft and ask for adoption and then it will become a work item but we'll definitely keep those loose issues that aren't attached to a draft in part of the issue tracker so that people can go and look and say yeah let's get on this and write a draft uh that's great and and exactly right uh i don't know if others have had the problem but it's a selling personal request be careful if that issue tracker is in github because github is wonderful if you are actively following a particular conversation all the time looking at the pull requests uh and uh and absorbing things that way but for somebody who is intermittently tracking a particular effort or trying to watch that effort while doing a lot of things it can be so confusing it's becoming just has to become useless uh the proposal we floated earlier john was that we'd form the discussions on the sorry make the issues on github but the discussion wouldn't happen in a list and we'd simply track the status on the github issues and so that should i believe capture what you're hoping for that that should be pretty close at least if not if not you've already gotten that far we can tune it thank you sure uh mark nottingham europe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "is that working yeah uh so regarding the working style i i understand that while we're getting things going uh synchronous meetings are important and um but but but hopefully i i would really like to see the group resolving most of its issues and having most discussions asynchronously i think because frankly a lot of people here are pretty time poor and as we've seen scheduling is difficult uh i'd like to see the synchronous meetings reserved eventually for just you know resolving those issues that we've identified that really need that kind of time um so that's what i'd encourage the chairs to try and move towards um and but what i originally got in the queue for was uh in my mind you know one of the most urgent and and probably practical things we can start with is figuring out how to continue the evolution of the format and that set of documents and and you know i i presume that this group has the authority to do that the question is as i think gecko was saying you know what are the details of how we go about that and so i guess i have a question you know is is it really the expectation that we need a draft to propose how we adopt those drafts and process them and will that proto draft need to go to an rfc is is that the process we've set up here so 9280 does specify that there needs to be a draft um that that that is actually a requirement of 9280. um it does not as far as i know need to be an rfc uh it gets uh passed over to the rsab and they implement it as a policy or they don't um or they they more to the point uh might come back to us with concerns that need to be addressed but as far as i know they are not published as rfcs i think you may perhaps be talking past each other um so i think if mark wanted to propose mark is there anybody working on such a draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "now uh sorry um let me let me try mark maybe you and then maybe you can uh you can argue with me no yes we can hear you but you can't hear us can you hear me can you hear me yes okay um is anybody working on such a draft now no um so mark i think um let me just try to clarify so i think maybe you and peter talking past each other my sense is if you wanted to write a draft that was about about evolving the format and like you're like the format should all only be like carved and stone tablets you could do that right now and you wouldn't need a protograph to do that draft um so i think that i think that but the eventually proposal has to be in form of draft but i don't think we need a draft to create a process to update the the the format if you had like i think if you have ideas about how to take the format i think you can provision directly you don't need a draft to propose how to propose it well i i so i'd like to see you know this group start working on the evolution um not necessarily as i i think that we need to think about how we go about that and what the right process for it is um so it sounds like we do maybe need a draft for that perhaps i think i think if you have a structure in mind we would need something to document i'm sure we need some words otherwise let's just adopt them you know i mean yeah well i think if we had i guess my sense is we need a group of people who want to work on updating the format and enough agreement that we think we can make some progress on that and then if there's something complicated that isn't just we're just going to like rev the rev the documents then um then we need to figure out that is going to write the document adopt a best basically right well to be clear there's already a revision underway right that so that my understanding is that that revision should at least be partly taken over by this group okay and what i need we should start doing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "that and i'm looking for how to do that yeah um i think the question the question that's also resolved um that was sort of being sort of bounced around earlier is exactly like should this group own the entire thing soup the nuts including the names the tags or should it not and i think that that was like a question which i think maybe robert and i and like i'm happy to do what the community wants to do so i'm not here to like enforce anything in particular um um but like um i felt like there was some sense from like mike and others maybe we should know the names of the tags but maybe maybe i misunderstood so let's see what people think oh and okay next we have elliot mark sorry well just just to to that point uh you know that to me the names of the tags is the core semantics and i i think that's you know that's not implementation thank you now i wanted to add one quick comment which is i know john levine has been documenting a number of issues uh that he's facing and it would be good if um this group invited him to discuss those so that when we make sure that we're capturing everything that he's seeing at the operational level and then you can get a feel for oh that's policy that's not policy and and you know you get a little running code in the process thanks so with respect to seven nine and one bis we actually discussed a little bit between uh the rs app or the stream owners or we're gonna call this and the ipc and and one proposal would be um to because i think john said that basically we're at a state where 791 bus actually finally describes accurately what the tooling is doing and so one way would be to actually publish this as is as a record and then start to work the continuing work here to do because otherwise we have taken a document that has sort of been long coming and and we've been waiting for um and we potentially delay it more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:02",
    "text": "because people want to do more stuff so i i personally would prefer if we could publish this relatively quickly and then do the work here to do 791 bisbees my sense is we would need to sign off on that but yeah to this group right because it's clearly in your charter and if you didn't want to do this you you couldn't you uh you can choose not to do it but i would recommend we do it that way kind of similar about what i wanted to say because this is really a abyss document um that just fixes stuff um and it's a biz document of an iab stream document and i think that the faster way to proceed here would just be published with this also on the iab stream and then you start over new uh with a clean version basically i'm happy to like have a short discussion or kind of a short feedback round here if this is ready to go but i would still take it on the ib stream and get it done quickly i mean my sense is 90 280 does not permit that i mean it's an update of an ib document right so this is like any way in the gray zone i don't think it's really in the gray zone but okay um i think it's in the gray zone so the the um seven nine and one uh what yeah what does it not permit i don't believe that i do not believe the ib can bust this document published as an rfc and have it be binding on anything i think it has to come through rswg because we are we are we you know we are now the sole authority i'm like i'm like what the rfc series looks like so but this is a that's what i'm saying so this is an ib document this is a biz document that fixes things so it's not like a new thing right and it's like this document might anyway anyway be in a line where we don't know if it's policy or not right it's not it's like it's not clear policy or something like that well but miria i mean"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "you could say that you know there's a whole bunch of stuff that happened in previous documents that were in the iab stream and i think now that we've converted over to rswg at least now that it's established that that document sounds like it belongs on the editorial stream and should come through the working group even though the previous one was in the iab i i don't think that makes it great and i don't care at the end we need the roc right right right right and what i'm saying here is that the work is already done i think we should just publish it right now in the fastest way we can and i think just proving it by the ib having published as a best document is the fastest way we can and then start the actual work in this group i i agree i don't think there's a difference in you know us calling the consensus or the iab calling the consensus at this point i i think it will accomplish that in the same amount of time um it would just simply be a bringing to this group make sure that we're agreed that the community is okay with 7991 bis and we call the consensus and pass it over to the rsab to approve i i don't think it's going to take any less time for the iab to go through the same process i'm not sure but we can we can't try anything so like this group has to decide i'm not mark no no no okay okay um i don't think it's [Music] the characterization that people want to add new things to it is not really relevant i'm sure that somebody out there somewhere maybe does but that's not what's top of mind for me it's that the current this document uh uh incorporates a lot of changes to 79 91 whatever it was that were inserted by the tooling effectively"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "and that may be the right thing to do but those changes need to see some daylight and i think that they need to go through this working group process and make sure that we understand what those changes are that they're the right changes to make and then we can publish it and i don't think that's going to add a lot of time um but i think it's the right thing to do i i don't think anyone's proposing oh let's open up 7991 and add a bunch of new tags and do a bunch of new stuff that's that's not what's really on the table we do want to get it out fast i agree with that but we need to make sure that the changes that have happened to date have seen appropriate daylight so i just want to comment quickly because i mean i john is more the expert than i am but you know these changes have happened already they are already deployed and they are all in the tooling we are just updating the documents yes and and it's still quite a mess as i understand it well okay without taking position on the technical matter of the data right the changes were made without any consensus process at all that's the purpose of this is now to have a consensus process that like creates the entire community [Music] are you still on this topic john oh yes um because we do have a cue and i assume on the same topic so no no this is apropos this particular thing yes um i agree there's a whole bunch of changes many of which i don't think we're a good idea either okay but they are the way that they are the way we've been publishing rfcs for the past year so in particular if you say this change this change was a bad idea and we should back it out we can't do that without without also saying and what are we going to do about all the public about all with all the rfcs that use it are we good you know i think i mean i think we we need to make a pass over the xml and reissue them with cleaning up the xml but my guess is that's going to take more than more than a few days of discussion understood um robert you're in the cube [Music]"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "so i want to express my support for publishing the what's been built even if we disagree that what's been built is what we should be doing um i think that having that captured so that we can document the rfcs that have been published to date is going to be important while we are going through the fight about whether or not we actually revise rfcs you know to republish that's going to be a long fight so i would like to actually have an rfc artifact that says this is what the tooling is currently doing um even if it's full of commentary that says we don't think he should do that anymore and then do the step that says this is what we should change paul you're up next so one problem we have in this and i really really want to emphasize this 70 79 77 91 bis is not a bis document it is a description of a possibly bad implementation it is also a good implementation which is why the implementer did it but let's stop thinking about this is 7991 bis going back to what maria said it would be good for us to publish a document that says what are we doing today and actually backtrack it to and we started doing these things on this date but it's not fodder for starting 79.91"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "bits some of the stuff will go in some of it won't there will be a consensus process but let's conceptually really split that out between a document that says starting on this date xml rfcs started looking like this and what do we want later completely different work and a big thumbs up from mike in the corner uh elliott you're up hi uh a question and a comment um i'll go with the comment first my question will be for paul just so you know paul my comment is that it seems like what we have here is a great great opportunity to sort of exercise the process a little bit um and hopefully on something that isn't quite i was going to say too controversial but now i'm not so sure but i actually look forward to seeing that i think it's a good thing for the work to happen here and not the iab for exactly this reason that we should learn how to use our processes to do these update these updates unless there's something that's absolutely critical that has to happen yesterday and then i'm not even sure then the iab should deal with it my co my question to paul was if you don't view this the document is abyss document is it setting a standard i don't mean in the ietf sense but i mean in terms of the specification sense is it setting a a set of rules by which the the documents are published or is it doc what is it documenting because i sort of lost you there a little bit um about what it is you wanted thanks for for clarifying um this is paul hoffman so i believe what it is documenting is an implementation of 7991 which was done by an implementer who changed a lot of things on purpose documented some of them"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "they some of them got backtracked but it is an implementation description document it is not a standard and it was certainly not agreed to in the way that the original spec was agreed to which was it was an iab document it had a lively ietf last call changes were you know like like it the original document was that way this is not documenting something that went through that process it's an implementation so before lars you make a comment i have a question that you and other stream heads are probably going to need to answer which is are you comfortable with rswg publishing a document which in effect says we have an implementation of how um xml is being used right now in rfcs we are publishing this document for the purpose of documenting that for people who are using it and in the future we are going to likely set new policy which creates you know what we're going to do in the future but this documents it for purposes of um use only is that a comfortable thing to do for this group the last segment yes so this is actually what i was going to say uh coming to the microphone you said it for me so i don't i think all of this is fine so i i personally would like a document that that describes what the current tools are doing i think that's also what robert's concern is that we we have sort of a description of of what we are have now uh whether that's what we want or not is is up to debate and i am hearing it's not that's fine right i don't really have not religious views here but i we've operated for too long uh in a situation where the description of what should be done and what action was done were different and it confused a lot of things and if we have a chance to sort of align"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "that and then move on from it pretty much immediately that that's completely fine whether it's 1791 biz or not i actually don't care right it could be an individual document that says here's a description of the tool um and we leave it at that okay oh and lars that's right back to you if we publish the document like that would that need to be on the rswg stream on the editorial stream or could that be on a different stream i guess my take with chair hat on is it's not necessarily setting policy it is purely descriptive of the tool so it need not be on the rswg but if the street if the rsab thinks that it's okay to put that kind of policy in the editorial stream i don't think i have i don't have a problem taking it on as a working group item miria you want to comment on this or other pieces of it so this is just um not as ib chair or offset member or whatever um you know this work the biz document is already done it's really just like reflecting what's implemented it needs to be published and i think it's a waste of time for this group we should and like because elliot says this might be a good thing to like test our process but it's not because it's done we need just to publish it we should take on more important issues on this group uh echo from the floor yeah i got down here because i wasn't sure there's a chair comment or personal comment um so it seems to me this document has two despite having one set of text has two meanings one set of meetings is this is the behavior of this tool on the structure of the documents up until the moment this document's published and that is a documentation function and the second is and going forward if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "you wish to have your things published it must conform to the syntax until it changes and that is that is a policy and specification function and now we've been operating in this like law free zone where the tool just dictated these policy decisions and like when it never had consensus but like we have to but but the point of the exercise is to get to the point where that's no longer the case and where those policies decisions come from somewhere and so people which like cease publishing rfcs um from the moment this doc has published until our business is published then that's like totally criminal and that document can go anywhere including on a website but if people wish to be out of the law free zone and have a document which has text which enforces text about how things have supposed to behave then that has to come from here otherwise like i don't understand i don't know otherwise i don't understand what right anybody in the rpc has to say you're not going to look like x versus one mark is up to bat no there it is working um so people are talking about this document as as it's documenting what a tool does the problem is is that there are more than one tool now touching this format and i find it really confusing and concerning that the ietf which is supposed to be you know this body of knowledge and people who understand how interoperability works are basing something on one implementation and not on documenting an interoperable format that people can write tools to um i don't think this document is done i think it needs people to at least understand you know what decisions have been made and we need to make sure that we make some practical decisions about what it contains it may be that there are some things that aren't optimal that we still leave in but we can't just wave our hands and say oh that's not our problem that doesn't make any sense to me at all julian you are up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:06",
    "text": "julian you have to turn on your microphone and video there you are okay sorry sorry for that um hopefully this works i don't have a headset here i didn't expect that i wanted to say something i wanted to point out two things um what we are going to do here is essentially exactly what was planned quickly after 791 was published because that was published with the understanding that this is a snapshot that would be quickly revised based on implementation feedback and how long is that ago seven years eight years so what we are doing now hopefully is starting that work properly that should have started ages ago and it's good that we are doing that the other thing um i mentioned on the chat um there are different kinds of flaws in the biz document and actually in the 791 as well and some of them if we fix them we will have to touch published canonical xml because it affects metadata and the meta data definitions are ambiguous and we have open tickets for that and i think we really really should not publish anything as rfc for which we know that we will have to take it back so publishing a snapshot is good as long as we are roughly okay with the contents and those issues that will affect published xml and that we will have to convert these documents once should be on our top list and we should work on that first and then if we have"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "that resolved we can consider publishing a snapshot as rfc so um we are now out of time and have five people left in the queue um we can creep over a couple of minutes until we are chased out uh but paul if you would like to make a quick comment i would like to make a quick comment that this will not be quick and therefore i don't think it's appropriate to have the iab just publish it i think it should be in a place where it can be discussed thank you miriah so poor yes it should be but it will not be quick right so that's why i would like to publish this and then start a new document um and and the reason why i want to publish this is i want to use mark's um argument against him it's interoperability right um other implementations should be able to actually implement what we need and so we need to document it and that's a reason and like what i'm hearing is that i don't like this group needs consensus to publish something we will not reach this consensus so i don't think publishing this document as it is in this group is actually an option but i still think we should publish it lars yeah looks like i agree with maria that i think we should publish this as a record of where we are and and i also i'm fine with if the rswg wants to publish this document on the editorial stream because i mean we're not starting from a clean slate like far from it right we have a little history here and it's complicated and i think we can if you know if you hold our nose and we say you know this is not perfect but it's what the current tooling requires to get internet drafts and rfc is published and it'll change in the future but here's what it currently is i think there's value in that and you know i agree with mark right it's it's it hasn't seen consensus or not enough and and it's really sort of based on what one implementer did but it is what it is and and basically pretending"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "it isn't is not going to help anybody so i really want to publish if we can and then immediately as soon as that start the work of doing a consensus-based follow-on uh john i believe you have the last word on this topic sorry julian we are over um i i thought mary and i were in complete agreement until her last sentence and now i'm not sure anymore um partially because i agree with mark i think it's important to get a snapshot of this thing published and publish it soon but make clear that that snapshot is a snapshot of an implementation that's not normative there's no expectation that other implementations should run off and conform to it until it's an opportunity to discuss the issues of contention i think a snapshot helps us figure out where those issues content and contention are that's a good idea but i think we need to be very very clear about what we're doing here thank you so i'm hearing that what we're gonna do is hopefully paul has some good notes on this and post them to the list um we will watch the list for a little while see if people have additional comments that change what has been said in the room and then ecker and i will put our heads together and see what we've heard um and come out with some sort of call on this uh all right with that we are three minutes over and much appreciated and i'm surprised we actually got some substantive discussion done so that's nice thank you all if it is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:04",
    "text": "for them you"
  }
]
