[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "Yep. Hello, everybody. or Let's see. Is this live a k. So Yes. All all the people in the audience here should move up to the front so they can but we have a good good swerving to online, remotely. So this is the Mene working group. I'm Donald East Lake, from Future A, and, I might have done FedEx lemon and the right Ronald in 12th from, you know, We are the co chairs, and, I need to, let's see what I wanna do here today. Okay. Next slide. Not well. You've probably seen this before, but if not, The discussions here are governed by the the IDF, sorry. Yeah. That I I have, given this a similar thing for IEEE meetings. We're not Not here. As these various documents here explained in detail. The, Standards process and the IPR rules, in particular, generally speaking, if you're aware of any IPR, in, anything being, presented or anything. You're picking anything you're But, even if other people are presenting, you should make that known. And if it's something for you or your employer, then you have to make it not people should go off and look at those documents when they have, the time to do so. Next slide. So Just medicate. An audio check, and Charlene's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "Oh, sorry, Sarah. He can. Yes. Can can remote people hear me talk? It's a bit of delay. So just get Sure. Sure. Okay. Some people I can speak closer to the microphone if that helps. So, second, note well page on a different topic. That people should, play well with each other Veris IITF meetings, virtually and re physical and mailing lists are all intended for fessional collaboration and then net networking There are various guidelines of conduct and, is an anti harassment policy. Creates the IITF drives strives to create and and maintain an environment in which people have many different backgrounds and identities are treated with dignity, decency, and respect so, basically, if you have expect any problems with this sort of thing. You can obviously bring it to attention is chairs. If it's, within the smene sphere, or you can go to the, bud's team, which I believe is accessible through the IETF homepage and stuff like that. And, Bacon, what will we assist you? Next slide. Just a reminder that, way I ETF produces quality documents is through their review. And, basically, people are always welcome to review documents and comment on them. Particularly drafts that are going through or being considered by the working group. And, If you, you know, it's also good to to review other documents be interested in their outside our working group and incurred as a more widespread review of of our documents next slide, I guess."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:03",
    "text": "So, meeting tips you need to have signed in, although everybody who's remote must have necessarily done that. So, anyway, yeah, anyway, you have to use, you know, go the I think I IETF does the best job of any organization I've seen in treating people who are physically present, and those are re who are remote equally because they both get the same queue to get on the microphone and stuff like that. And you should keep, you know, obviously, auto feed and video feed off if you're not actually, presenting whatever talking. Using headsets is strongly recommended if you're remote. Previous session. I was in this before this. There was some problem with echoing because of a remote participant without headsets. So so Next slide. Should I go ahead with the agenda? Yes. Okay. So here here we are. And, depending on where you are in the world, the time is different. But, anyway, it's the right time. And this is the agenda for our meeting. So we're, going to Check that the agenda is the right thing. We need we need to people to take minutes. I mean, it's can be done collaboratively. There's a a link in the agenda for minutes taking. And, Shares will review them and post them in afterwards, we will review the status of documents and our milestones. We have 2 topics to talk about. One is AODV2. Charlie Perkins. We'll speak on that. We have slides to that. And the other is charter revision. We I've been considering a charter revision for a while. And, we still have not really, I know they come to closure. What we would like to see in our charter"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "our new charter, what items should be added and what items should be dropped. So we are continuing that discussion at this meeting as well. And then we will wrap up. Yes. And now, I take over with some sad news David Wiggins, always been a participant, mostly, a participant coming to IETF Meetings far as I can remember, but somebody who was a co author, of of of the drops that we will shortly speak about And also, an implementer of DLAP in an open source implementation, of DELAP done by, MIT, Lincoln Labs, has passed away, in November. Last year. After a long period of, of illness, Of course, we are sad about this. I can imagine that his, his co authors of the trials are are most, affected by this But, yeah, We we joined them in, in morning, the loss of David and, Either will, he shall be missed. Then, about those drops that the, He co authored after a long, long, long period I won't go in or into all the regions for that. Are finally at the stage that we are about to hand them over to, our area, director and the wider, IESG. And, Yeah. Although that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "does not mean that they will be, published very soon because there may be all sorts of discussions still to be resolved their that point, More or less, out of the working group unless the changes that need to be made are so essential that they need to come back to the working group to, gain consensus on that. I am, the document shepherd, so I think I will via hoping, There are remaining authors I have now have to say with resolving any, any issues that come up during ISG review Then, We have some individual drafts that have been, adoption called twice, actually. There were, Not Many opinions forced about adoption or but there were no No opinion against adopting them, I think they can be useful. We received guidance from our AD that we should not take in on any new work before the previous set of, documents was out of the working group. We are at that stage now So, Maybe, Jim, you can make a comment on that but, as soon as we, Do I understand correctly that as soon as we have, handed over the previous drafts that we can, consider these,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "adopted as working group documents. So So looking at the I mean, I haven't read the documents, yet, but they're dlamp related. So As far as I'm concerned, you know, this isn't I I wouldn't consider this as new work. Per se, it's more if it's related to those documents that are gonna come to me very shortly, then I'm okay for you to go ahead and adopt these and and continue the work on that because it's basically the within the same area. My comment, before was I don't wanna see any new work taken on in terms of new charter. Atoms. Okay. Until such time as we see movement of what we've already got. And, you know, the reasons behind that. So so in summary, I'm happy for you to go ahead and adopt these now and and and continue to work on those and send me the other ones, and then once once we're at that stage, then we can, you know, if there's enough stuff for a a recharter with the working group, then we can we can certainly do that. I just didn't wanna do a recharter until I saw progress on what we already had. Understandable. Yep. But these these three documents are fully covered by the current charter because they're are deal up extensions, and that's a charter they Otis, what do I do? Okay. Abdu Salom, go ahead. Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "I have, I've read the the documents, the 3 documents, And I have, commented on it, before and, I I I asked I I accepted, the adoption for for some time, but, I would like to to know if, if, there's, as you said, if there's somebody against the the this doc They should have commented, but there was no any against, this, these documents. So I think our leader was a comment from the before saying that, it's short, you know, the the the comment was that short is more, details. And, and I think it's maybe still not, that more details. And, it will be, you know, updated the future, I think, as the author, mentioned. Thanks a lot. Yes. But, adoption as working group documents is the beginning of something, not the end something. So Yeah. I was gonna make the comment. You know, if same there's really no issue with adopting the document because you know, it's gotta go through the whole process and go through work group last call and so forth. So hopefully that work that you're talking about in terms of fleshing out detail will happen, obviously, as part of that process. So so I don't I see no reason to you know, to delay. If the working group has consensus on adoption, I'd I don't a reason to delay that. And then finally, on, on document status, we now have a new version of the, ADV, Version 2. Draft, that Charlie Perkins is going to present shortly. And, I've seen that there is a new"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "version of the, drafts, drafts, that was presented in San Francisco, However, I think, I think, I think, Was it you don't or don't that send out, A request for presentations on the mailing list. And we did not receive, a reaction from, from the authors of of that draft. So whether they feel that they need to do another update or I apologize for not checking with them, but, No. Okay. And girls. Yeah. ahead. Ablou Salam, go Regarding, this draft we we've read the draft, but, needs, more, update. I, adjustment. So there was a comments from Henning, and, comments that needs to be, you know, answered. So there's already open for, to update, the concerns of the working group I have I seen, comments from Henning and Others on the 0 version of the draft. However, I have not seen any comments on these 1. That was published somewhere in January, if I remember correctly. K. Slide. Think. Charlie, are you ready?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:14",
    "text": "Charlie. So there. Do I need to unmute it? Can you hear me? Yes. Can you hear me? We can. Yes. Can you hear us? I'm here. Can you hear? Okay. So I'm ready to roll. I'm sorry. Under Sort of afraid to just go around randomly pushing buttons, but I guess that's what you to do Anyway, yeah, so I'm here to talk about AODV. Should I get started? Yes. Floor is yours. Okay. Well, next slide, please. Just, from I'm gonna talk a little bit about how AODV 2 got to be what it is. And then explain why it's not the same as AODV. The published, experimental routing protocol. And this, talk about the things that have most recently We're changed. And, few issues to be resolved. And I guess, if it's okay, please, wait until the end for long questions so I can make a coherent presentation. Anything else, that, needs to be, added. Maybe we can add it at the end. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "Alright. So, the AODV version 2 has been around a pretty good while What happened was that, We had 4 routing protocols, 2 reactive. One's and 2 proactive protocols. And, think they all got publishers experimental documents, And then the idea would be to was was to combine the 2 reactive ones and the 2 proactive ones and then, go forward. So that's sort of what happened except in the case of the 2 Proactive protocols, I think, the other one that was not OLSR basically just disappeared And, the DSR folks and AODV folks Work together, and since they didn't wanna it was for AODV had name recognition, but it was somehow felt that since there were 2 different protocols being combined, we should pick a new name, and so, Ian Shockers renamed the effort to be Dimo. But I guess stands for dynamic mobility, And, then we went went forward. So that, took a while and then, The DSR parts of uh-uh Dave Johnson. Didn't, continue participation very much. And some of the dynamic source routing stuff, sort of, Well, one thing that we found out was that if you put in source routes in the packets, the additional additional size of the messaging can have a very deleterious effect on, the performance So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "So that, sister wasn't anybody championing that that was, that just didn't persist this. Although it could be put back in. No problem. And then, so after a while, People were wondering, well, why is it called Domo? Why don't we just call it AODV version to And so that happened. And, then it's, for reasons that I can't clearly remember there it was sort of an acrimonious meeting in AODB version 2 was removed from the Manage harder. But it would sort of continue to be a live document and, the co authors agreed to have it be AODV sponsored and, Alvaro, was sponsoring it for a while. And then and then I got, I got essentially laid off And COVID happened, And, and nobody was working on it. But in the meantime, there was this other Document or other protocol called AODB Ripple that was getting developed, and it's now done, basically, I think it's in the publication. It's been requested to be published So that, that was an interesting exercise, and actually, edge occasional in some ways. And then Well, just recently, I was contacted to see if, there was interest in and they came up on the mailing list about resuming some work on a ODB version 2, So so then I got the document and went through the normal amount of pain for something that's been sitting dormant for a couple of years. And, finally,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "Yeah. I had some interesting, discussions about things that broke some of the IETF tools, but, anyway, so Here we are with, version 4 of AODB version 2. Next slide, please. So In order to understand AODV version 2, that's probably a good idea to Compare it to, LDV RSC 3561 that was published as an experimental protocol, So it's, it's really pretty similar but not. Closely similar, I guess, I would say the way that, route discovery proceeds is, it's it's basically the same. There was a way in, AODV for having, intermediate routers If they had a route to the destination, they could supply that and, route reply and, it was felt that that was a little more hated and in order to expedite the document, could be added later so that was taken out And there was another feature called Expanding rings route discovery where you if Want it to not flood the whole network, and you thought the destination was nearby. You could just, make our small radius of, dissemination of the route, request message And, so that That has some value in in a certain situations. But that was one another feature that was decided to take out probably one of the biggest changes to AODB with make it conform to RFC 5444"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "which, defines, some Type link value extensions to a basic, message header with the message type. And I I didn't go back and and review this, but Really, it's, pretty straightforward, I guess, and and just a matter of conforming to the the message formats that are laid out in RFC 5444. And then there's another document that, Defines the port number and, multicast address and IP protocol number for manet product routing protocols, And so we adopted we we put that in, like, in order to be conforming. I'd like to just say something about this, which is that Since all the protocols are, using the same port number. Well, you have to be, you know, careful about that, but this was part of, effort that Essentially, I requested, What is it? More than 10 years ago now to, allow some sort of combination between proactive and reactive protocol operation and, I think that's still I still think that's a really good idea. But it, but it would need work. To put it mildly Anyway, so that's a possibility then there's, aft along after the initial work with done on a o v a o d b version 2, There was, additional emphasis on security and, then this RSC 7182 was published to provide Some, some top link value extensions to allow you to put in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "the integrity check vector a time stamp, And I think there's some other features too, but I don't remember Anyway, so since that was, designed, and since we wanted to have some end to end security, that was a change to the AODV version too. Then I guess, There were various suggestions on how to to improve a lot of the necessary features of the protocol and we just, followed the suggestions but I guess one of the more important things that was done was to allow metrics, but not to be used, it were not hop count. Everybody knows that hop count is a lousy metric And, there's actually a lot of things about that. For instance, if you're running a simulation and you're using hop count, you can really get some wrong answer errors. So anyway, no. There's not a problem to use, alternate metrics for an AODB version 2, but this is something that actually needs a I'll work in the you might say other direction, which is to make a list of the metrics and allow that, the metric type to be put in And so I have to make sure that's that's correct. Of So, one thing that, oil our did was to make a lot of definitions about multiple interfaces and some of that work, was, adopted into AODV. And, basically also using, compatible nomenclature for the ta data tables and so on. That, allow you to Keep a clean separation between the date and the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "necessary for managing the multiple interfaces. And also, it is now, it was possible to have one IP address assigned to multiple interfaces and that, took a bit of work. And as I mentioned, the end to end integrity checks were enabled. It's, for an ad hoc network, at least at the way We were imagining it it's possible to imagine that the network would I have multiple points of connection to a a larger local in the area network or internet itself, And so order to do that, We had to be real careful about with the meaning of the sequence numbers by I didn't mention it, but, AODV uses, the destination sequence number algorithms that were put into the SDV 30 years ago. Holy smokes time flies. Anyway, so So that, destination sequence, number allows for a pretty solid, way to avoid routing loops. And, So all that does is filter down, but when you get down to multi homey, you have to be sure that you're counting the sequence numbers from the same space of, and it's possible that with different, connections to internet that that can, to be you have to be careful about it And, basically, it matters which the connecting routers is providing the sequence number. We took out hello messages and another Sort of valuable feature called local repair. Was taken out and all of these things that were taken out"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "idea was it well, maybe not for hello messages, but for local repair or, expanding research and so on. The idea would be that after the base document was published, then, And then that could be put in as, supplementary documents, but the other things about, for instance, alternate metric They they really had to be part of the base protocol. That was not viewed to be, appropriate for an extension document. Another change was in order to if you have a a network where there's a lot of messaging you have to try to be a little bit more careful about which messages I actually make it through. So for instance, if you have a choice of forwarding somebody's route request, and you don't know if that ever is gonna establish a route. Versus forwarding a route reply acknowledgement back to the Alright. Reply. And that's also useful for avoiding, What's the right way to think? To to blacklist, certain neighbors where it's only one way connectivity. But anyway, so the important thing is to try to allow routes to be established and maintained in preference to just flooding random route requests. So that, that actually does help. And, by the way, just I didn't say it, but I guess it's well known that flooding in an ad hoc network It is very costly. And so anytime, You can avoid doing that. That's a good idea. Which was really the motivation for this expanding ring search idea. And also, Will, I guess, a route inter a lot of these things were built order to reduce the amount of, flooding and signaling going on in the network."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "Yes. And then the so after The long time after we already working on AODB version 2. Though we're starting to be more, people interested in, rigorous proofs of correctness, and, avoiding routing loops and so on. Now, it turns out that One thing we didn't think about very much is what happens when some of the unknowns reboot, and then they lose their sequence number We'll that, that is a way to destroy the correctness proof for using the sequence numbers for avoiding routing loops. And it's easy to show that if you have a device that reboots and get just picks up some random sequence number, then, while you're you're going you're you're, you're gonna very likely have routing loops or at least you you can't, guarantee that at the that there won't happen. So That's that's not a complete list, but it's a good list, and I think it, shows as far the evolution of what happened. So we're not I put reason in quotes because, you know, Nothing's really very recent since nothing happens since about 2019, I think. So that's a while ago. But, anyway, I mentioned already, to handling for rebooting riders, and basically what this have the the way of doing it was Just to be really careful and have some sort of primer crossed, essentially time out for routers after they reboot, they can do certain things like forward route requests, but they can't do anything that requires Their neighbors to trust their sequence number. That has they have to wait longer before doing that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "So that that was an important change, I think. And then, go with some additional, courtesy discussion and it was requested For any time that we, said that protocols should do things we were asked to explain, well, what goes wrong if you don't do them? And, so we did a lot of that, and, As time goes on, and I'm sure by now there's new crypto algorithms that, need to be, maybe even specified as a default if you if you look at just the amount of Text the change in AODV version too. I'm quite sure that just terminology changes would be the number one thing because, as I mentioned, we Tried to, be conforming with, what was done with the OLSR And, particularly, go with this RV 2, and that that was a a lot of work. Since we put in metrics, we needed to have a new CMP destination unreachable code that basically says you know, That destination is not reachable if you're using that which which which And, So, and we did that And then I just got a piece of, Email from IANA that says that our requested code was already been used by somebody else. No surprise. So we just have to update that then there's this thing called, precursor list it was put in and I always liked it. And then it was taken out And, will that's the brakes? But then it was put back in, And what precursors are If you have, essentially they're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "They're the upstream routers that Really? Allow you to use a route. In other words, not not you might not care about all the all your neighbors, for a particular router transmission. If you have an error, you'd only wanna notify particular neighbors that the route is broken, instead of having to broadcast the route errors. So that turns out to have some beneficial performance effects, And then about One of the things about bidirectionality, we allowed, a mac layer too, a lot of Mac layers enforced by directionality. And so, we allowed that to, help us help. For that. Next next slide, please. Alright. So the this, came up on the mailing list, and I would say there was, A lot of discussion and question about whether LDV version 2 is implementable. I'm not really writing a lot of code these days. Well, I guess I could try to do more, but, It's not likely. So, So that means that I don't have an existence proof to show you that it can be implemented All I have is My own experience And, though, experience of people I worked with, that lead me to strongly believe that it's implementable. And and, you know, I had also time and, Tripoli, And so, pretty familiar with a lot of implementation issues but, you know, since I don't actually have it. I can't prove it. I after publishing, Revision 4, I got a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:06",
    "text": "Timely email back from IANA asking about the registries for metric type and the address type so that I'll just have to figure out what that what that what to say about that. Some And then, as I mentioned, we needed to I have an updated, code for the destination unreachable. Chris, dear love, Hello? Pointed out that this has been published as RSC 7859, so Congratulations on that. One thing about AODV ripple was that it allowed for isometric routing. And this is a nontrivial change to the protocol. But it's very cool. And, so if there is interest in, working group To have isometric routing, then, we we know how to do it. And, could be done. Probably Take a couple of months to do it, but, I'm happy to try it. Over over the years and particularly, I would say Thank you to, Alvaro Ratana. He did some really great reviews on the document and made a of observations that, where we're happy to adopt. But I need to go back and and make sure that all that stuff, really has been, all the comments really have been addressed. About 75% confident, but In this case, a 100% is needed. And I guess if this document, is adopted by Mene Working Group. There'll be a lot of review and it's, it's not a Short document, And so there's a and I guess it, No. It helps to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "also be familiar with RSC 5444 and and, 7182 and and Possibly even stuff I don't even know about since I've been not active on the working group for a while. So, so that's That's sort of it. You know, I don't know if this how to say it the right way. But You know, I'm willing to I think AODB is a terrific protocol and, as well, just a slight digression. I didn't make a slide about it, but There are It depends upon the degree of connectivity of your pro of your a network. If you have a network that's like There's only a few sources and destinations Let's say you had a 1000 nodes and for any particular source, it only ever needed to talk to 5 other ones. Or 6 other ones, except for maybe a few server nodes that that had a lot of clients Well, that's a relatively sparseconnectivitygraph, if you have another kind of network but we're Practically, all the sources need to talk to practically all the destinations. Then That that's pretty dense. And so, if you try to maintain all the routes and such a network like that is in a reactive fashion. You run into trouble quickly, and it turns into not being scalable. So, So, anyway, the point is that there are networks that have this feature of being relatively sparse in connectivity graph. And for those who react your protocol is a good thing. And so, and that's why I think that AODV version 2 would have a place As a published, protocol."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "So that's my end of that digression. Next slide, please. Alright. Well, at this time, it is 1:12 in the morning. I'll be happy to field some chimms but I'd also be very happy for questions that require a bit of thought and, maybe even, looking up things to, allow Allow to put those questions on the mailing list and have a better discussion there. So, so questions. Yeah. Thanks, for your presentation, Charlie. We can, allow, I think, a few short questions, but indeed, longer discussions need to go to the to the mailing list. So I have a question for you, Ronald. You are there for the whole shebang. The whole Manny reach hardening and And, the document or reorganization back in the early days. Dude, did I present to you, in the group a A reasonable summary of what happened. I have to confess that maybe 10 years ago, I was not always playing as much as tension as I should have. Look, Well, you're excused. But but, yeah, So many things happened. And there were so many discussions in the time that that that that that I think they cannot be captured in a in a in a single, 15 minute a presentation. But, yeah, I think you've got,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "the gist of it, Pretty much. Okay. Well, you know, it's hard to be objective about all these things, really. And especially when you have a lot of, personal effort at stake, So, I just, just wanted to get your opinion. That's all. Yep. And, I will I I will Refill version for myself. So and and go back to, some of the old mailing list discussions and see, if they still apply or not? Well, any comments you have will be greatly appreciated. Abu Shivan. Go ahead. Yes. Regarding this, I think, I think, early for his presentation. And, I was, I was always following the meetings and maybe now for the this 10 years, but I was disappointed for the removal his presentation. He said that's a removal. It doesn't remember how it happened. But, I will ask that it is that this removal of one important uh-uh document, which is for the working group. It may even close-up the working group. So I ask this on the mailing list. Why was it removed? Or how even I remember that one of the co authors He's from England, okay, or from UK. He was disappointed and he he I I had seen his email and on the list or maybe he sent it to me. So this is important that when it's removed, we we should know how things remove and come back. If I if my let's say in the future, I sent to IETF, and it's accepted and adopted."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "What's the mechanism? It's removed or not removed. This, should be discussed maybe. I was I I was interested to discussed with the chair of IETF, but I didn't want to do it until I see one presentation or the author say something about this, but anyway, is my comment usually. My comment is, I support this document to be added in the chapter. And I hope, it will because even the way it was removed, I don't think it was right. Thank you. All I will say about this, for now is was the decision of the then chair Justin Dean, To say this cannot be standards tracked in its current form, it could have continued as experimental, but I think, at that stage, the the authors gave up or a bit later, maybe. The other chair at the time. Standard red leaf. At his name on the document as an author although he may not have come achieve it very much. So He recused himself from, from making that decision, but Justin Dean, decided that there were too many unresolved issues, at the time. So we have to go back. But, Christopher, do you Want to add something or I have a question? The We cannot hear you."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "Can you hear me? Yeah. Yeah? Don't wanna put anybody on the spot, but I see, Rick Taylor's out you might have an idea about it. Yeah. But I was going to give the floor to Christopher for a question. But, we cannot hear his audio. Okay. In the chat. Okay. Yep. So Rick, Do you care to comment or Ronald. Or maybe he's not paying attention because so that it's just just sending emails on the VPN list. Oh, oh, Rick. Go ahead, please. Sorry about Hi, guys. Sorry. I was trying to unmute my You're very faint. Like, audio volume is very low I'll put it in chat. That's fine. Priyanka. Hi. I'm Priyanka. Am I audible? Yes. State, state, So, My question was that AODV2 is, still I mean, a proactive protocol? Reactive. Reactive protocol. Sorry. As So, do we think in the mani working group, you're gonna incorporate, let's say, the new AI ML Optimizationtechnique into this kind of protocols and Charlie? I hear your voice, but I didn't hear what the optimization technique was"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:03",
    "text": "Yeah. I don't have the optimization technique at the moment, but I was just wondering if you are if this mani working group and Charlie, you were interested in in, in incorporating those newer techniques. Well, I have a easy answer for that. Which is yes. But just to expand on it a little bit, for any particular optimization technique you know, we have to see how it fits. And, if you have a particular thing and you one that helps to incorporate that into the protocol pill, actually, that word optimize is my favorite words, and I I really really like whenever we can end up prove the performance, as long as it, What can I say? Doesn't, burden the average performance So, so yes, I am and but it well, it's a document is adopted as a working group document, then in a way, those decisions are out of hands, And, then my job is just to follow whatever the working group says. Thank you, Since we have only 9 minutes Okay, Rick, read your, comment in the in the chat. Rick is saying, I I have no real comment on the history. However, I do see AODV 2 as a useful concept I have concerns whether it is standard strike yet, but definitely a protocol type. I would like to be worked on I see crossover into BT and routing, use cases as well. Yeah. Perhaps."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:02",
    "text": "I would like to Leave it at that and take further discussion on this to the mailing list because we've only 8 minutes left and, still have an agenda item to go. So Alrighty. Well, thank you very much for giving me time and Next time I hope is not after midnight. So, I'll hopefully see you guys in the future. Well, the next idea is in Vancouver, so that should be more close to your time zone or Exactly. But thanks for getting me. We're staying up for this Yeah. You're welcome. Tonight. So, fairly quickly over, The charter discussion I cannot even read this. Oh, yeah. There's a thing there. There's a monitoring in front of me view is blocked. Yeah. Clever. Thank you No. That's that's fine. But you can watch that. So this light has been, shown In earlier, meetings Already. So we we've done delet We are almost done, as discussed before, with the, grab it based the flow control, drafts, statistics for traffic"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:04",
    "text": "traffic classification based statistics were never undertaken, although we did do the traffic classification itself as part of the flow control scheme, multicast was never really done. Some ideas where discussed at IDF14 Dean, I think it was in Philadelphia. In a combined session with the role and the Bible, working group The point has been made specifically by Rick Taylor that, There are proprietary multicustom solutions below the IP layer out there. But, I would counter that with the argument that may want to federate several of these, proprietary solutions they you need some, some sort of overlay. So I think it's still I would personally still be interested. The the the the I cannot do it on my own. So there's nobody else, sees anything in his It's probably not going to happen. Yeah. The Challenges in best practices. For deploying and managing, we don't expect anybody to come forward and tell all their secrets on how they do it. Then there's a sort of an implicit work item not not not not not not Not singled out as a, as a work item, but mentioned nonetheless. Maintenance of all those rf2 And I, read maintenance, maintenance and extensions,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "So that should be carried over into a new charter Donald improved the wording of changing, no brainer to obvious. Thank you for And I incorporate try to incorporate a few Suggestions, ideas, from Carson for the deal off in a recent Email. I think it was Saturday or Sunday. With the center. So, We could do an informational document saying how we could use OSRFP to with some lesser known features, So all those rv2 in its current form. To accommodate specific use cases, specific use cases. Christopher mentioned responsive networks, stabilizing networks, don't think we can go into that now, but it would be something to, elaborate on, you know, on the mailing list. Hybrid proactive reactive operation, By extending, all those rfv2 How much of an overlap that would give it, AODV. V2. I cannot foresee at the moment. Hybrid proactive DTM operation, Would be interesting. Better NPR selection or Utistics, I don't know"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "to what extent that is a local thing or if there's any, protocol action, involved there. An over point, and this has, this is based on, on, experiences, guidance on all those RFP to restart. Where one of the notes really starts and then cannot enter the network anymore. Problem that there's been experience. So just Just a note, There's been some comments on the list. To to your points, but we're gonna run out of time so Yeah. I I cannot see, chat or, At the moment, How are we doing for time? 2 minutes. Okay. Okay. I'll skip over this These are potential new work items. Delap maintenance and, and extensions, obvious, label maintenance and extensions, obvious, babel, for UltraP 802 11 presented by Donald's at the previous, session. Is for discussion. Put in first thing, energy efficient routing in, moneys is probably, disturbed work. New approaches to multicast, forget bitchstring based. I've been thinking about that, I thought I had a brilliant idea, until 2 days later. I found that it was, fatally flawed. Federation. I've already mentioned skip over the management stuff reactive routing protocol just just presented by, by Charlie. Yeah. I think we should at least look into this, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "specifically look at the the Issues, slight of Charlie's presentation and see if we see, a good, probability of resolving those issues. Hi, Brit. Already mentioned for Ola jarv2. An update of RFP 2501 personally, with no chair headwind, I don't see It's a bit I don't see what we would gain from it. Yeah. Okay. Let me Yeah. And then the other topics. So That's the end of this list and the end of the presentation. Almost The one point that I still want to make is If we choose to adopt something, then there should be people volunteering to do the work. Abby Islam, go ahead. Yes. What's so important for me to know the time, slot. What's the milestone? The timing for when will we reach charters, as we heard from the AD. He doesn't want any item, new item coming. Tell Richard, now we need a plan. At least we know in 1 month, 2 months, We were rich because we have discussed this many times. I don't think we should go, forward only after we recharged it. So when will we when will the the chairs think that it's more suitable for them or for us all So, please, this is very important for us. Take"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "That all depends on the amount of discussion on the mailing list and, whether we can come to a, a good set of items for a new charter, I would think. And I mean, in my in my experience, it's it's the drafts come first. The the the the people that support the drafts, and then the charter is built around supporting that. We don't go out and define a charter. Without without that, that work involved there. So just talking about we could go this way. We could go that way. I don't see. We need we need work and that will drive the charter. So the there's plenty of options to move the charter forward. Sure. Please request it. Charlie go ahead, but we may be cut off because we're officially out of time. Oh, well, I just wanted to say that, I can, work on the draft, and and I think it's, actually nearly done unless new features are edited Okay. I'm, reading some some, comments from Kiser for on the chat Point taken about the IPR, Christopher. Okay. We're probably over time. Yeah."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Okay. Reading the comment by Andrew Cook Yes. There is some interest from some radio vendors. For instance, one radio vendor supported the adoption of the, new deal left ross. The raid the physical layer oriented, the LEAP draws, I should say. I know of at least one other, Radio fender that has a DLAP implementation. Although it's a pre standard, thing thing, It's not really compatible with 8175. As far as I know. Okay. This was the, Monday session for, for this meeting? I think we will have a another session in the the next IETF. In the meantime, do get active on the mailing list and, comment on, the ideas thrown out Here. And and then, Hope to, see you in, Vancouver. Either in person or remotely. Thank you for your participation. And we're done."
  }
]
