[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:21",
    "text": "hey y\u0027all it\u0027s a 20 after now we\u0027d like to get started because this is sure to be a busy session could our area directors so this is doe the DNS over HTTP working group if you\u0027ve come for something else you\u0027ve come to the wrong place we\u0027re going to spend the next hour on some pretty contentious topics as you\u0027ve seen on the mailing list we\u0027re gonna first start off with Paul Hoffman\u0027s graph today and I should mention before going into that however Ben Schwartz are the usual DNS Doge co-chair could not be present this week and so we kindly have a substitute would you like to introduce yourself Pete or any who don\u0027t know most folks should know that I\u0027m Pete Resnick and I\u0027m not Ben Schwartz so don\u0027t hurt me and don\u0027t hurt either and so for the agenda basically for the we\u0027ve allocated the first half hour to talk about Paul Hoffman\u0027s existing draft adopted by the working group for associating doe resolvers and then we are going to use the balance of the time to talk about other work that has come up and where it\u0027s home should be shall we no oh yeah for any of you who have never been here before and seen this sort of thing the ITF has a set of policies in effect that cover our guidance and and how our discussions are run if you have not previously read this you really should because this basically is the controlling document for your participation in the ITF aha there\u0027s the full stream so I\u0027m gonna start off while he\u0027s trying to find full screen this is not Paul Hoffman\u0027s draft this is a full working group draft and for those of you who\u0027ve been following it since it was Paul Hoffman\u0027s draft you will recognize that many of the protocols in it did not originate with me they originated with people from the working group and from the community who said your original ideas suck these are better and they were right so I just want to be really clear this is a working group draft it has to have consensus it doesn\u0027t matter what I think well I mean custom matters a little bit what I think but I don\u0027t get to override anything so next slide it clicks isn\u0027t life good okay so since the last meeting that we had at the last meeting it was still Paul Hoffman\u0027s raft although even at that point it had a lot of stuff in "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:21",
    "text": "it that I did not originate the documents been adopted by the working group so it is a full working group document it follows normal working group rules I\u0027ve published about three versions and I say three ish because one of them was a mistake that so it sort of was a tombstone II one the zero two was a major reorganization from the zero zero that the working group adopted and the reason we did that was because people were getting caught up with the order since it\u0027s three protocols and I\u0027ll actually cover the three protocols at the end of the presentation people assume that you had to do the tree protocols in order or the three were more important so I reorganized to be that what people were indicating as the one they understood the best the one that they sort of understood and why are we even doing this one so that\u0027s the current order and then the zero three witches came out a couple weeks ago before the cutoff deadlines smaller changes but many people asked for examples so I added the examples and clarifying but prabha not fully clarifying the privacy and security considerations and I say that because a lot of the other discussion the discussion that\u0027s happening on simultaneously on the dough deprive DNS op you know thank God we haven\u0027t actually gotten an anti ETF general yet but it only will take time those things people have then you know pointed out privacy and security considerations that affect not only doe dot and DNS over over fifty three but also this document as well so I\u0027m trying I mean this document is going to remain just this document it\u0027s not going to become an overarching document but there are still more privacy and security considerations probably that will need to be made so where we\u0027re at now is hard to tell because following four different mailing lists for the same topic is sort of difficult especially when not everything gets posted all them I\u0027m not saying they should all be posted to all of them I\u0027m just saying that people are having some mismatch issues it seems to me and I\u0027m saying this as an individual that there is still strong interest in having the capability that this document is aiming at some browser vendors has said that many individuals have said that so it seems like there is still interest in this and I haven\u0027t heard many people saying no don\u0027t do what this is about but there have been some concerns about the actual protocols in there and I forget if it was Mart and receive who said that it was that they were icky there there has been statement that the way that we are currently proposing to do this in this document has some achiness to it with no suggestions that came out that were you know that people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:23",
    "text": "said yes that\u0027s better and then the last been are you gonna interrupt you on me yeah I think I probably should so been Caidic you said several things about you know what mailing lists has been on and you did say please don\u0027t put them on all of them or you buy useless says that that it\u0027s hard for those of so we\u0027re trying to follow to have to follow them on all the male race I just want to point out that for the ITF discussion last charter this topic is explicitly off-topic for that list please do not send there I don\u0027t want to have to put my sergeant arms hat on and like have two very young people can you just say that again because I\u0027m not sure everyone understands that the actually ITF mailing list has its own set of rules yeah so there\u0027s oh gosh I should know is it our seat three thousand five it SAN old one yeah it is the Charter for the ITF discussion list or ITF at ITF org and it has stands in there that says topics that have their own topic specific discussion lists are not appropriate for the ITF journal discussion list and the fact that there\u0027s so working group mailing lists have working group chairs who occasionally step in and say what\u0027s on topic or not but the ITF general mailing list has multiple sergeant\u0027s at arm\u0027s of which you are one of them if I remember correctly I was correct and so you can come in and say I\u0027ve looked at this and please don\u0027t do this right okay great thanks Martin do you want me to finish or do you want it I think I might be responding to the point that you just made before the interruption so I think it\u0027s okay best that I say now no suggestions for how to achieve Martin Thompson I apologize for being Martin Thompson yes I apologize for being Martin Thompson as well thank you the more of us that can do that the better the no suggestions for how to achieve the goals better I just wanted to get up and I\u0027m sorry the the point here that you make the claim that you make that there was no suggestions made for how to achieve the goals better I think is is a little unfair okay so I did make some suggestions they were not concrete I agree okay good point good point yes yeah I offered some avenues of Investigation that I don\u0027t know whether you\u0027ve considered it or or not but certainly I\u0027m waiting for the mailing list to respond on those um so and I didn\u0027t see any response on this so yeah so this would be better worded as saying there were there were suggestions for as you said avenues of thought that were not yet adopted and they certainly could be we\u0027re not done so status is we\u0027re not done and I\u0027m expressly opening up the ickiness as a open issue that multiple people you know one person said icky and one person said yes it is and I\u0027ve heard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:25",
    "text": "this all along by the way so I\u0027m not a proponent for these are good things to do they\u0027re the normal way we do them in the IETF they\u0027re not and I\u0027ll actually go through the three of them next but short of that since there is a desire for the goals of the document to be implemented as a standard at some point the working group is going to have to say this is too icky we don\u0027t want to move forwards or this is just fine it\u0027s great or somewhere in between but the working group is gonna have to decide if we still want to meet the goals do we do it Elliot thanks Paul Elliot leer forgive me this is just a slightly too bit abstract for me in terms of using the word ickiness all right will you tell sorry it\u0027s just a little bit too abstract for me in terms of the word ickiness I\u0027m sure nobody\u0027s ever used Nicki as being abstract but could you um maybe an if you have a follow-on slide or something like that can you explain what can you summarize the the ickiness issues or something like that so we know no because they didn\u0027t come from me so if either Martin or Steve Farrell want to get to the mic line when we\u0027re done they can do so but know that it was it I do not want to speak for other people on this I barely want to speak for myself on this but I absolutely and you don\u0027t want me speaking for other people either as Martin just pointed out I actually got this slide wrong as well so ok ok so our station though is right I understand they might come to the mic and explain what they don\u0027t like ok so the last bullet has come up recently which is two of the three protocols don\u0027t have any authentication in them and the third one does but that authentication it bothers some people in that Oh that\u0027ll be harder that won\u0027t work and so the it seems like there is now discussion both for this document and in general about authentication in this realm don\u0027t know where that\u0027ll go occur we did you want to talk about a fennec ation yes sort of Eric or Scola I don\u0027t I don\u0027t know I\u0027ve got more slides so why don\u0027t we if it unless it was like a clarification on this why don\u0027t we yeah and and we do have time for Q\u0026A yeah we definitely have time for Q\u0026A so let me do so I\u0027m just on those are the three things I\u0027m about to discuss which are the three protocols they\u0027re in the same order as they are in the draft I\u0027m gonna just show you what they are I\u0027m not gonna explain the whole thing hopefully if you get up to the mic you\u0027ve read the draft I know that\u0027s hopefully in many cases but since we have such limited time here that\u0027s an extra hopefully so I\u0027m gonna explain to three and then we\u0027ll have the last slide and then we\u0027ll have the mic line so the first one is called doe service from HTTP it uses a well-known "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:26",
    "text": "URI dot well known with - there that can be resolved and it will return the URI templates so the URI would look like this and that the all-caps I would have put it in bold and blinking if I could IP address goes here a an application a browser a web application you know JavaScript or something who has the IP address of the of the the resolver sends this query to it and it gets back a JSON blob that\u0027s that\u0027s that protocol if you don\u0027t have the IP address of the resolver but you know you can send text queries you can do doe servers from DNS you create a query for a special use domain name that is being invented for this which is called resolver associated dodo art but plenty of bike shedding there on what we would call it but Warren if you\u0027re gonna laugh out loud the most you\u0027re the one who started bike shedding okay so you you you send a query with for a text record and you get back so you\u0027ve just sent a normal query you say who\u0027s Oliver associated Doe our type of text and you get back and since it\u0027s really hard to show what people get back without going into the bit so I actually chose the master file format for the current draft you get back some tax records and the tax records have the URIs so we\u0027ve also started talking about do we want to use text instead of this a new case do we want to use the URI or R but that then you\u0027d have to actually fill in you\u0027d be getting back information you\u0027re not using so but the idea is if you can create an on a quad a query especially text query which apparently some operating systems can do although now I\u0027m not sure why I think that so I\u0027d love to hear if I\u0027m just imagining that you can get these back and now you\u0027ve got the URI templates for dough the third one is if you can\u0027t do that but you want to get the a or quad a of the result of the local resolver so that you can then do this one here is a way to get the a or quad a of your local resolver you make a different you use a different special use domain name in this case result for addresses dot artha the resolver caches that says here are my addresses and send them back okay so that\u0027s useful for clients that can only send queries for addresses such as JavaScript or JavaScript running in a browser okay so those were the three hopefully everyone who\u0027s going to ask questions is familiar with those because those have been in the draft for weeks now or actually more than weeks a few months "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:28",
    "text": "now so what\u0027s next it would be nice to get some feedback from resolver vendors saying we can we can\u0027t we already have we\u0027ve got it in some data code or whatever but also it may be that these are not the way that the working group wants to do this which goes back to the ickiness question there might be other ways and then we have to decide how long to take so that\u0027s it my client I Brian Dixon from GoDaddy could you go back one or two slides yes - which one previous one that one mm-hmm about the special use domain name there\u0027s one issue I think as far as the use of possibly those servers where there\u0027s an existing chain of forwarders and one of those wants to be the thing that upgrades itself to being a doe server as well as a DNS forwarder I think you need to be able to disambiguate the entities in that forwarder chain which suggests some way of them identifying themselves separate from this and then using that entity\u0027s name rather than just a single use single special use domain name okay said that to list especially if you have a way of differentiating I don\u0027t know that we\u0027ve ever dealt with forwarders DNS forwarders in the IETF as separate entities but absolutely send that to the list sure thanks now we could talk about ethnic ation Erika squat so I mean the question about authentication as always is what is your thumbs oh yeah and um so I assume the version when you\u0027re handed as an indication is the one where you go to HTTP colon slash slash my IP address here right right because and just to be clear this one has authentication that\u0027s what the S is for these two do not you cannot authenticate these special use domain names even if you were validating DNS SEC because they aren\u0027t they they don\u0027t go up the chain so yes this is exactly the one we\u0027re talking sure good um my put would be that you can\u0027t meaningfully authenticated this and even if you could it wouldn\u0027t matter so first why can\u0027t you mean from indicated for starters with very high probability the address here is like 1000 one even if it\u0027s not 1000 one with very high five OD you got it from your DHCP server which means you which means basically the network aligned to you in your network security problem anyway even if those things were not true and someone had to actually configure the address in here "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:28",
    "text": "on the ordinary behavior for the vast majority of like sensible Ando resolvers is going to be that on and since you don\u0027t actually know you\u0027re gonna have go you\u0027re just checking right is to try this and if you can\u0027t connect then you go gee I guess I don\u0027t have dough so a network attacker and since and so as a practical matter and then you fall back to ordinary DNS so um as a practical matter any attacker was any significant role of the network can force you back to an authenticated posture so this method education doesn\u0027t really do anything for as I can make out okay so um I guess I\u0027m not like super enthused about this HTTP version at all um um not like gonna fall on my sword to stop it but like I\u0027m not super enthused about it um I guess like why I here not super enthused are you against it short of falling on your sword and if so why just see it I don\u0027t see there\u0027s no value at at so the question I was gonna ask best question I was gonna ask was gonna be is the only additional value I suppose of the ads that is authentication if that is so then I was just remove it if there\u0027s some other value that I\u0027m not seeing then I\u0027m not like opposed a JavaScript app that can that can you know is able to create Laureles and send them out mm-hmm and send this out and get out get back the DOE service yes I guess I\u0027m like my guess with like I\u0027m not like a world\u0027s expert unlike how people are trying to deploy these JavaScript apps but like I would strongly suggest SPECT that the people of these JavaScript apps also know what resolve they want to use and will populate it with like the domain name yeah because who also it many people this room would believe that\u0027s true about the the current browser vendors anyways so well this is all of this is to give them an opportunity to not do that sure I don\u0027t want to like get into like over design of like these things but um you know I it might or might not be useful the browser vendor to be aware of like who was operating the system that the local dough resolve on network that would be informational might be able to use so so yes it\u0027s possible we pre-configure but it\u0027s also possible would be interested in what the local dope resolver was whether we chose to use it or not okay great thanks I favor akima is speaking for a resolver vendor in that case so the thing that kind of I have a bit of problem is I don\u0027t want to run an HTTP server on my recursive resolver so I\u0027d rather have maybe rearranged documents that you always do the addresses from as a special name and then the result the resolver can hand you to a HTTP server farm for actually doing that okay I think that would be better can you send wording on that because currently the document doesn\u0027t have an order or a preference okay if you could if you can do that that would be great okay thanks I\u0027d like to apologize for being Martin Thompson so the no applause please the the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:32",
    "text": "objections that I have here are somewhat more fundamental than I think I think we\u0027ve been discussing at this level I I I kind of agree with the folks who are saying I\u0027d rather not run an HTTP server on my resolver I think that makes perfect sense but the objection is more fundamental than that and it is why are we talking to an HTTP server about a DNS server in the first place why can\u0027t we talk to the DNS server about the DNS server and is there someone said layer violation that doesn\u0027t make any sense to me but feel free to join mine and explain we have in other protocols ways to talk to the other end point of that protocol as if it were the other end point of that protocol and dearness is kind of unique in the way that you just make queries for DNS records when you talk to a result you don\u0027t ever get to talk directly to the resolver itself and my objection was that this is really what we want to do in this case and we\u0027re inventing all of these sort of circuitous ways in which to do that simply didn\u0027t see it around that I\u0027m not understanding what you\u0027re saying I I get that this is the you\u0027re not talking HTTP you know are you saying that getting dose servers from the DNS or getting resolvers addresses from the GS is also wrong Nyepi okay so you\u0027re not saying that clearly or not okay I\u0027m not sure what that is and part of the problem here is that I don\u0027t have enough background in DNS as a system and the system is resolves to know whether that\u0027s a good idea or not but the fundamental objection is you don\u0027t have an explicit way to say I would like to talk to the resolver the thing at the other end of this the thing that\u0027s going to be taking this message that I\u0027m going to be sending out asking for an a record or what-have-you I can\u0027t talk to that thing now in HTTP we have over time evolved the ability to talk to the other end of the connection in various ways we can put in header fields that say this is a header field intended for the other end of this hop or we have settings in HTTP 2 that allow us to say well this connection is going to be doing the following things and so on and so forth and if we were able to talk to the resolver and say hey resolver what is your configuration for doe explicitly and directly then I think we\u0027re in a much better place for solving this problem finding out whether Denisova TLS is available and and all these sorts of things and it gives us a basis for good having more discussion to the future ok does that clarify yeah where am i right he was coming from yeah great ok thanks ok one pause for the mic line I just want to observe that with the amount of time that we have I\u0027m going to cut the line after pater but we also have been Schwartz waiting in the mic line and then you entered right after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:33",
    "text": "eric Nygren and so we\u0027ll get to you right after Eric goes John Reid Akamai first one point of clarification and I\u0027m happy to discuss his further run list when you mentioned that the list is should be considered a set the list of results returned is there room for discussion about considering it an ordered list I\u0027m sure that is however this case I I realized the problem there so but we can change that by making it using you are or whatever so yes I chose a satin because when I thought I\u0027m running a resolver why the hell would I give more than one and if I gave more than one what does it mean and then as I thought as a stub resolver what how the hell would I choose I just said this would take five paragraphs why don\u0027t I just call her a set so yeah that\u0027s absolutely an open question so please take it to list will do second question is there room for discussion in the context of this draft about end-user interaction and information such that you know we say what happens when the empty set empty set is returned there\u0027s no dough it can we make recommendation that you know the application should tell the user this rather than falling back into a default that\u0027s normally not what we do I know I\u0027ve seen I\u0027m sure I\u0027ve seen it both and then I guess the last point is regarding off education for the HTTP query HTTP query for IP addresses on the flip side what all said if I was both a resolver vendor and a CDN vendor and wanted to use the CDN to terminate that connection putting IP addresses in the sand entries of the certificate as well as all the DNS names that are in there is problematic because you know we talked about if TLS fails we should consider this to have failed I think TLS can easily fail unintentionally or be made difficult to succeed so I\u0027m keeping my great thanks hi Paul Pat McManus oh good good slide so I largely agree with ekor on the front that what you\u0027re authenticating here is basically on authenticated information that you\u0027re authenticating at the next level and that\u0027s then transitive on actually to your connection to the DOE server right so you\u0027re connecting to the DOE server that\u0027s something when you go all the way down the rabbit hole told you - that was unauthenticated to do so there\u0027s no need to add authentication to this level because it\u0027s just kind of snake oil from that point of view and my I guess my bigger concern is people may say I\u0027m ok using my doe resolver from my local network because I trust my local network they don\u0027t really trust their local networks they trusted a local network provider if they do it all but if they if they express that kind of relationship and there\u0027s no actual technical mechanism here to say that you are on your local network or your local "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:33",
    "text": "network is providing this information right and it\u0027s gonna go transitive all the way up to validating the DOE server name and it\u0027s a bit me meaningless at that point unless you validate something other than the name and I made sort of a mailing list post it\u0027s out of scope for this draft we\u0027re talking about maybe what you what you could do there longer-term okay I answered that with since you probably aren\u0027t following the DNS off mailing lists okay I am oh you are okay so the very short terminology additions that I threw in were meant to at least touch on the questions you just brought up and many people have been touching with large bats that\u0027s an appropriate place to do so sure I\u0027m not just going to just a terminology I would actually like in this draft some language that acknowledges that the DOE server you choose to use through this mechanism is not authenticated past a level that your network configuration is right it has the same it has the same meaning and that may not mean what you think it means good please son test I can say that to you because you\u0027re my co-author on DOE jeopardy and I really like his you know this is the coffee-shop doh-doh server you should trust it as much as you trust anything else two quick questions Oh for clarification one in the draft what you currently have as instructions to Ayanna is that these domains under DARPA should not be delegated must not and okay would it be okay to make these black hole delegations instead and if not why not uh could be oh that would be great for Ayanna because then it won\u0027t get bound to queries to these and in leaks we can do black hole delegation the same way we did for send text I will do the second is a scope creep question yeah these are specific to go at the moment but you could easily imagine making these TLS protected DNS servers associated just to make the acronym even worse so that you could return both d-o-t and do H when you have similar privacy properties and as far as I can tell would then allow a local sort list to tell whether they prefer do T over over do H work to try them all would you be open to creeping your scope slightly I would be but this is the DOE working group I know but no so why don\u0027t you hold that question for the recharter discussion because okay so if we finish this work for just doe it probably would be a minor Reece pin to do it for dot or something like that but it\u0027s it\u0027s a Charter question not a document question at this moment the documents about doe 1030 I just point out that it affects this because the instructions to DARPA might be to tie an ax about that ARPA might be different if you creep the scope okay I apologize I\u0027m not Martin Thompson I am instead Warren Kumari no hats so I am very sympathetic to being able to do this from JavaScript but I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:33",
    "text": "also really think that people should be able to do this unlike 1918 space etc and they won\u0027t be able to get certificates if you do the HTTP pot you can no longer do it with JavaScript right cuz it\u0027s really okay Aaron I\u0027m one question afterwards do we really need all three of these mechanisms and I think to Martin\u0027s point earlier which I kind of agreed with is it is that property of using DNS to ask the DNS resolver a question about DNS has is really attractive rather than kind of the some of these other mechanisms they get start getting convoluted okay from that perspective the special use domain name really jumps out as being a highly attractive solves a lot of the problems on element because it doesn\u0027t have the it doesn\u0027t require the IP address certificates it doesn\u0027t try to use HTTPS for something where the the the source of information itself is unauthenticated it is something that actually of these is the only one you could potentially even usefully do from JavaScript because in the JavaScript world the bootstrapping case if you need to know what your resolver is in the first place so this is the one you would be wanting us to use but javascript can this the and that that may be what you want because simplifying to this would be simplifying but you\u0027re then excluding JavaScript apps from being able to get the the address of the local tow server that is absolutely a possibility for the working group early on people said that one of my early ones I don\u0027t even remember which one by the way I list all my bad ideas and appendix if you haven\u0027t read the draft but then that wasn\u0027t enough they wanted it to be more extendable so perfectly valid question for the working group is whether we want to simplify down to one that is going to a DNS server and even from that perspective it could be if javascript doesn\u0027t have that interface today is that something that would be something that would be reasonable to expect that that browsers could implement that\u0027s the largest scope creep I\u0027ve heard today so far so you said that are you done Eric yeah okay Ben\u0027s up so hold on Jerry and Martin we did close the light hi so great so first I just want to talk about the fact that there\u0027s at least two different options listed in this draft I think that it\u0027s natural when approaching a good problem to think of all the sort of possible solutions and then list out the ones that seem likely to work and so these these do seem likely to work but I do think that we should prefer to in find a single solution unless we actually have implementers who are saying that they eventually intend to implement one and canticle meant the other so I would really appreciate it if we could get some more input from people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:34",
    "text": "who actually intend to implement this about which solutions they prefer for themselves so in particular I haven\u0027t heard any input from people who for example are build little network appliances about which one they would be to implement a lot of input from crowds or vendors where already inventor about Ashwin would would be preferable or or which other solution makes you prefer 40 okay that\u0027s the rest my first cover great thank you next and my my second comment is I think this has been addressed I just want to be clear so there\u0027s right now there\u0027s no web api no JavaScript accessible web api for reading an IP address even if you even if you can resolve a name you can\u0027t find out the IP address that it resolved to so do you believe that the draft as structured allows the allows no JavaScript application to to use this facility so I didn\u0027t know that the first of the things that you said was true in fact I thought that it wasn\u0027t I thought that there is a JavaScript API in like the last few years that actually says get me the address if that\u0027s wrong then the whole thing\u0027s wrong no one has pointed that out to me actually okay so that that is my understanding that my understanding is that there is no defined no such defined API now it is true that if we\u0027ve removed the HTTP authentication you could go to HTTP colon slash slash special use domain name whichever one it is that P colon slash that doh-doh resolver IP resolver addresses ARPA yep and then it would resolve to an IP and you know attempt to set up a socket and you could you could go from there all right okay because otherwise we can talk about w3c liaison action if you want an API that makes this Wow we have scope creep in multiple different directions now cool okay so yeah thanks and yeah and we should probably be clear then you were offering all those without your co-chair hat on correct yes okay great thanks I chaired much you know recovering grumpy old network operator of some sort you know so historically we\u0027ve had a number of different ways to go and configure the DNS servers you know we originally you configured him through bootp and then you know do them in DHCP and then we got everything split you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:35",
    "text": "know in the whole slack dhcpv6 world and just a number of different ways and we have this current trend right now in the IETF of taking protocols and then capsulated them inside of other protocols because I guess that\u0027s trendy right now and I\u0027m very concerned about how we continue to do that and I think it\u0027s fine to discuss all the possible solution spaces as part of that but right now what we\u0027re seeing is we\u0027re seeing we used to see one protocol used to configure the DNS servers and now we\u0027re seeing as Eric mentioned DNS being used to configure the DNS to do the DNS stuff and and the recursion involved in that I think is relatively hard to go and try and say how can we go and when I\u0027m making feature requests to the hardware vendors to say hey I\u0027m like a new network equipment to do this stuff to go and say by the way you now need to implement all of these additional stacks that you never previously had is very tall order for me as a networking person to go and do and I\u0027m concerned about this additional level of complexity that is being added in which I understand has rewards for some subset of users but there\u0027s broader equipment involved in it than just the browser\u0027s as well and so the I think these interactions are somewhat complex to you know to go and look at of how these pieces all interplay and so if we need to go and ask our vendors to implement new things we have to start somewhere and having having you know a you know some standard like this makes me very concerned because of the number of ways it continues to kind of move through the process and Harold we had closed the microphones so if you would dump into the Java room or email Thanks just clarifying point on the address thing I don\u0027t know if you want that take it to the list I can Wheaton\u0027s so far we\u0027ve also heard many people were saying let\u0027s get rid of the address thing so I think all of that is good list fodder but their projects is ethnic now with the resolver implementer head on first of all I would like to make the room realize that for us assess our vendors there is no point in implementing do H if nobody is going to find the endpoint right so if you want to see th implemented in open source resolvers we need this or something else which will allow clients to detect the nth one so it\u0027s very more important than it seems otherwise we will be stuck with Google and called for doing all the DNS or HTTP HTTP and that\u0027s it and second thing I would suggest not to get stuck with the authentication problem because for example the HCP working group is stuck for 70 years or at least seven years with trying to solve the secure DHCP and this is basically the same thing right "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:36",
    "text": "so at the buff on that two IDF\u0027s ago the DRI you bought and we came to that conclusion I mean it\u0027s just hard problem and yeah I shouldn\u0027t wait we shouldn\u0027t wait for solving that problem for having toh option for clients right so to answer the question of what\u0027s next even though there wasn\u0027t a question mark here lots of stuff on the mailing list please thank you thank you Paul so if some of you have maybe been paying attention to the DOE mailing list you may have seen a little kerfuffle come up about operator considerations and work related thereto we have fortunately Jason and Jim are here to different reed to give us a little overview on the type of work that we think needs to be done and then we\u0027re going to have a further discussion about where that kind of work should be done okay thanks thanks again hold up right now so just quickly as area director you want to step in and preface this a little bit I also want to point out that I\u0027m presently the area director of this working group I will be handing it off to Barry tomorrow on on stage at the plenary but to sort of preface this I want to point out that what we\u0027re doing here is soliciting input from the community we\u0027re gonna take that definitely as one of the things into consideration about where any subsequent work might go but there are area directors and ops and possibly other parts of the iesg are probably going to have a conversation that involves other logistics as well about where this work work ultimately ends up so whatever yeah so we\u0027ve got two different drafts here I think the key thing to bear in mind is that they\u0027re not really about the protocol themself itself but really about implementation issues that arise from deployment next slide okay these are still the old slides been oh maybe I didn\u0027t refresh the page right anyway so we\u0027ll get there so I think what we\u0027ve got is the two different graphs Trammell speak in a moment about you know his main draft but so when they the first draft and the one that I did yeah that\u0027s a perfect suite there you go yeah next one yeah so the first one one of the points raised primarily is around the issues of centralization or consolidation those really touch on stability security and privacy and if some other knock-on effects around software diversity and so on oh thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:36",
    "text": "and so I think at the end we\u0027re will come to the basic questions across all these which is you know what working group does it go to where does it really belong as it in charter he or not and then the other issues were really primarily operational in nature around security threat disability this is like malware detection sorts of things parental and other content controls split DNS sort of an enterprise use case enterprise data leaks national level legal mandates which exists particularly in a bunch of European countries captive portal impacts and of course other operational things typical things you\u0027d see performance scaling and troubleshooting Jim yours and just a quick chair interrupt on that I mean we\u0027re gonna have a discussion about where these things should go which will be input to the ADEs who will decide where these things should go thanks the purpose of this particular draft is to try to document some of the problems are going to exists in operator networks one still gets waiver used and deployed because it\u0027s going to have a significant disruptive impact on those networks and the purpose we\u0027re trying to do in this particular draft is document that and come up with some use cases and defame problem statement we\u0027re definitely not talking about walking of them the fact to see that blocking that you usually do this blocking just know these networks will no longer work in one module is wave reuse and we really are stealing along about my income from the ITF if this stuff will actually go forward so the question you would like to hear is there are questions about that left open in the current draft there are things that need further take meat boil initial scale some of those things those little bit organ issues and there may be some other what that could be perhaps picked up other working groups in the ITF for example or only secession take a sensation resumption if there\u0027s lots and lots of dns traffic going over these HTTP connections we also have between the jason\u0027s document my document there\u0027s a degree of overlap on the privacy issues and pretty much it\u0027s the same fundamental problem that\u0027s described in both documents which is we\u0027ve got the potential for dns queries going to third party Dory\u0027s all of us for some definition about them and those resolver service may have unknown or unclear security policies and what could be the potential impact of those in also some other settings Megan it\u0027s illegal and else\u0027s so there\u0027s certainly some concerns around that they need to be looked at now that would be instable potentially for this working group because privacy aspects are something that\u0027s mentioned in the Charter but we\u0027ve also got another working group which is also looking at the NS previous issues deprived so the question is appropriate to do endure maybe too indepe rival maybe be doing somebody else who knows so I think the open questions we\u0027d like maybe a lot more discussion here other the issues raised in both what these drafts of the relevant and valid under the in scope for the working group and if they\u0027re not where should they be going that\u0027s the working group point to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:37",
    "text": "work on them or help to try and refine these documents to improve them and maybe we have to think about which other working groups make appropriate if they have to be moved elsewhere and so we\u0027re looking at essentially operational issues rather than protocol issues in these documents so that cane of smells a little bit inappropriate for the art area so maybe the stuff needs to move to the ops area who knows well that\u0027s a decision for other people maybe some people will may have a particular view about that so it looks to me is there are several options of possibilities maybe remove the working group into the ops area maybe there\u0027ll be chartering maybe you did I\u0027d spit up on your working room or maybe take an existing working group and dump all the stuff in to them and have them deal with it although that may not be such a good idea because I can\u0027t see any media office fit in the Obsidian where there\u0027s a group that can maybe do that kind of thing Denisov may be fine but I think a lot of the web-based people would Paula find participating leaders or working group what about a tall order for them because there\u0027s so much other DNS stuff going on in there it would probably linear frustrate them and I thought I\u0027m done and it\u0027s time for questions yeah Jim if I can use a chair privilege at the moment also there\u0027s one unstated option here which is it\u0027s not work for the idea true yes Oh we\u0027d have to see encounter that David consider the amount of traffic we see in the list it looks like clearly some for the IDF to work on so yes I see the line getting exciting so Jim and Jason will stay up here to answer questions about specific proposals we are looking for input on which particular issues are good for which particular places and which should be booted and that kind of information is useful going doing a deep dive on what they\u0027re proposing should be held for whatever the new work item the new whether it\u0027s a new working group new charter new area will be so let\u0027s talk about where stuff should go and what are important things to go just a quick note on that one - Pete\u0027s is there\u0027s a save me tea scheduled for tomorrow afternoon to discuss some of that stuff so if you want to go into specific detail on the contents of these two jobs that would probably the best place to do that I also wanted to put a one bit of historical context for the short history that those existed is this was going to be the model of a pop up working group you know some with one and done and it\u0027s so the question of that whether the word strings along for years is also comes with that context behind it we have twelve people in line Colvin is left in the session I might start a timer okay as different knots Meyer because are many questions I will focus on the summarization one no it\u0027s not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:39",
    "text": "unchartered for the dough working group because as a risk that there is only two of three big public with all of us on everything going to this public resolvers is absolutely not specific to do it\u0027s already is a case we do over no DNS over fifty oh no 50 so if it is for the specific case of the DNS it should be done in DNS up because it\u0027s clearly what DNS operation if there is interest but I would like to point out that it\u0027s not even a DNS specific problem it\u0027s a more general problem in the internet when there is a dominance of a big player like Gmail we don\u0027t ask SMTP working group to change a protocol about it and I would like also to remind people that there is some work at the IAB on the draft about what is called consolidation which is if I understand correctly more or less the same as centralization so no it\u0027s not for the door walking up and and you it sounds like you\u0027re thinking a new working group perhaps not even maybe DNS up maybe new working group or maybe DNS about my busy IEP walk which is already taking office no I\u0027m not in favor of creating a new working group because I don\u0027t see possible out positive outcome thank you I am the terrible Oliver Lawrence change I\u0027ve just wanted to point out that I\u0027m the third author of the draft some of these issues which I mean it is conceived in a slightly different way since it\u0027s basically a write-up of the issues from general for all types of users in the set of recommendation for application makers as such I thought it would fit with the charter of deprived but what I wanted to say is that I\u0027m of course happy to bring it I mean wherever we want to have the discussion I think that this discussion has to be just one so all these Tufts and all these issues have to be discussed in a single place as far as we decide that they are in the Mandate of the ITF what you want to do but I think that yeah but I think that in the end it\u0027s advisable to just bring all the discussion on all the issues in a single place so I\u0027m happy to hear what what it will be if there will be one and bring my draft there as well though I mean I guess this will also be an item for discussion with the deprived working group which hasn\u0027t adopted the rough yet anyway maybe we\u0027d never do it but so I mean just wanted to point out that we have to bring everything together and possibly give us a timely solution because I think time is of the essence and if this discussion by the way starting happen in other places non-technical places two weeks ago the ICANN meetings and well several Costa to assist us in to discuss the issues generated by the age maybe that\u0027s a different set of issues that are not technical not even light here but still the discussion will also happen in other places or if we want to have it here thank you time hi I\u0027m Watson I work opera and nothing related to do H R I\u0027m very concerned that these drafts are are looking at the OAH and looking at operational issues at the O H and ignoring a long history of misbehave "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:41",
    "text": "by ISPs on DNS a Verizon is in notorious for faking an X domain queries they will not respond the next domain they will send you to a search page this breaks several systems that rely on an X queries for to fall over to another site um I think if we\u0027re going to have a draft about operational issues we all seem discuss the operational issues which users are solving by using do H which is the SE is previous behavior I\u0027m concerned as draft is going to be a one-sided threat or Menace thing and isn\u0027t going to give a over comments of overview of the issues the benefits of voh as well as the costs yeah good point I wrote a draft a few years ago about how an X domain redirection would certainly be started back up again and talk about the sex when users thanks all right student vote so definitely up this working group I think the analysis in these drafts is not sufficiently baked to figure out what you should do with them I think because for example we had a couple of people already say this issue that you have on your slide Jim applies also to TNS over 53 so I think the analysis has to be redone better before I would have a clue as to have the ITF she processes you you\u0027re thinking maybe buffing to figure out what the analysis is or do it in some separate mailing list and then bring it back so I guess I\u0027m kind of asking for the impossible which is to objectively do it so sorry real quick been during the Q after Sue\u0027s so sure and Suzanne Woolf first as DMS up Jeremy and then and then I will switch hats for my next trick this doesn\u0027t feel like Danis out work to me it does feel operational but to the extent that there are technical issues implicated it will need more than DNS people to come to reasonable analysis and correct answers so unfortunately that feels to me more like recharter or both plus working group or some other way to get this done that the the switch you know shifts gently over towards Dan I\u0027m afraid doesn\u0027t work also as an ID member for the next couple of days but not speaking for the IAB the discussion has gotten even more challenging because it\u0027s hard to separate the layer 9 plus issues from the technical ones and even if they end up being dealt with in the same documents by the same people it\u0027s going to be really useful to separate them better than they have been so far the IAB and our Internet Society colleagues have already done some work on some of the the policy and social issues that are coming out of consolidation and moving control points around within user interactions with the net so checking out some of that work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:43",
    "text": "and perhaps moving some of the discussion in coordination with other folks outside of the IETF entirely would be helpful so Warren Kumari and this is gonna be a very poorly formed formed sorry Ben hi Warren hi this is Ben Schwartz not speaking as a chair yeah so I would I would appreciate a clearer taxonomy of the different kinds of issues that are in these drafts right now each of them seems to be a collection of many different concerns of different kinds I would appreciate if those were structured into categories a little more clearly that said the the dominant category that I see is concerns about browser behavior and the IETF doesn\u0027t regulate browser user interfaces to the extent that there is a body that does that II think it\u0027s the w3c and so in my view certainly at least the browser related components of these drafts should probably be transferred to the w3c interesting you been one so or on Kumari and sorry that this is gonna be muddled but Jim every time you used the word doe your sentence would have been equally valid if you had just just dropped it right the same things very much occur with dough dot d NS over 53 etc um a couple of weeks ago when the discussions were happening on all of the mailing lists they asked for a new mailing list to be graded which I was calling ad which has applications doing dns and it feels like that\u0027s actually a fairly good sort of view of what a lot of the concerns boiled down to it\u0027s not actually happening over a specific protocol or transport it\u0027s actually where the resolution happens so maybe we should be thinking it in that sort of way instead survive level the discussion do you think that mailing list might be something they should become a working group I don\u0027t know I mean we have a process for that you know we should figure out where they should live but maybe we should move some of these that are discussions there who knows okay quick know we have technically four minutes left in the group and eight people still waiting to speak so it\u0027s quick as you can see saying guseva growth Center for Internet and Society yes I agree with Stefan that centralization is an internet problem but principally that should not prevent a working group from working on the centralization effects of a particular protocol that said I think there are several issues in the drafts as they currently stand some issues are just superficial like relating to privacy even if you use a dose over for DNS queries you can have a privacy policy that you\u0027re accepting etc and I mean "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:47",
    "text": "even though the living would drop doesn\u0027t say it\u0027s from a network operator side it does feel that way there are several advantages to know that I mean the talks will benefit from recognizing curse TP and CSA and I\u0027ll be brief I just want to thank you for bringing the drafts to the group I know they represent a lot of concerns that I\u0027ve heard from various industry and players and I think it\u0027s good that you\u0027re bringing them into the group I\u0027m a relatively new attendee here so I\u0027m afraid I don\u0027t know exactly where these this work should go but it does seem to me that the dough charter says it will consider privacy and security issues you\u0027re bringing privacy and security issues about dough to the group I just want to thank you for the way you\u0027ve done and in highlighting these issues so what I mean I don\u0027t really care where it gets worked on but I think it certainly should be worked on Eliot Lear this work I think is should continue and it should continue in the IETF because we\u0027ve created the protocols involved that you\u0027re reacting to I agree with Ben Schwartz on the point that the taxonomy could use a little bit of work and probably it\u0027s worth the IAB chiming in as to how much they want to take in from the concentration discussion that you raised in particular Jason and I think the previous comment that was made is also relevant the specific issues that they\u0027re dough or dog raises in terms of market concentration are at least worthy of a little bit of exploration but I wouldn\u0027t want to place the focus on on just that and so I look forward to working on this with you guys I think an issue tracker will help quite a lot at some point very soon and just let us know where that\u0027s going to drop hi Pat McManus I\u0027m gonna make the argument that we have actually already published a semantic equivalent of this document just last July it was RFC 8404 the effects of pervasive encryption on operators and it is very very similar to the material in in these drafts to the point where if you just scan through the table of contents we talked about content filtering troubleshooting manage near networks the effects on mail abuse and spam denial service phishing botnets very very similar stuff and to the extent we feel that that document requires an update for some unforeseen effective ubiquitous encryption on operating your network that document was done in the security area and I would pursue an update there if we can beg your patience for just five more minutes I think we\u0027ll be able to have everybody who might find have their funnel sighs I\u0027m Brian Dixon godaddy some of the there is some overlap I believe in the operational side of things between do H and do T and in particular I think there are some problems raised that may be better "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:47",
    "text": "handled in the d-o-t context and be worth exploring together regardless of where it ends up specifically in DoD there\u0027s a new thing in DNS which is DNS stateful operations which has applicability to d-o-t that would potentially give the ability to signal to the first doah server about a second do H server that you want to use for privacy that I don\u0027t know if it\u0027s possible to do in do H but working together on both of them together in a different working group or new working group or with the recharter I think would be very mutually beneficial I favored outcome I thanks for bringing that all this is up I think some of the issues are really do H and B OTE sort of are in the same boat it\u0027s a security and s transport and we need to come up with operations way to deal with security and s transporter or and one of the things that came up was provisioning and this is something that needs to be solved so it needs to be solved for dough and for dot so maybe having something that tries to solve this together would be good idea Leslie Nagle thinking cat enterprises I stood up specifically to push back on the idea that this you just get punted to the w3c because I don\u0027t think it\u0027s just a browser issue to the extent that the documents make it about a browser browser issue then that\u0027s an editing issue because really fundamentally the question is how are how is how is doe and maybe doand dot how are they breaking our hosts assumptions about how DNS is used from the from the host perspective so I think there is work to be done here I don\u0027t think it\u0027s just the secure transport issue I think there are issues at the level of operationally what are our expectations in terms of how how resolution happens so maybe it\u0027s an ops area thing it\u0027s fine to do a further exploration of other documents that should be referenced including possibly yes wouldn\u0027t it be nice to kill an X domain falsification that dead bed thanks thanks and Wendy Seltzer w3c may be the third time I heard w3c I\u0027d consider that a summons to get up join the my climb hi Ben I similarly that plenty of issues that are at w3c concerns that fine to have addressed here and I don\u0027t see a reason for w3c to jump in and say they should only happen over in that group if the right people are in this conversation then and I haven\u0027t particularly heard this conversation in w3c groups if there are more groups that you would like to have engaged I can poke at some of those but there is also considerable overlap and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:48",
    "text": "made the security folks who participate in both conversations and I believe that the technical architecture group at WEC has done some thinking about the the consolidation questions alright thank you um thank you for not throwing food at your temporary chair and and that was actually I think very productive for the ADEs to hear and they are going to discuss next steps and give us some feedback on this discussion so thank you everybody Fred be polite discussion and enjoy your lunch thank you I also just I want to find out real quick there is a working group chairs luncheon here in like 10 minutes so if you could clear the room quickly I\u0027m certain that the working group chairs lunch would appreciate "
  }
]