[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:00",
    "text": "careful the lesson to us Oh, no, Diego is in the room again again again again again you very much got it again again everyone I mean, can someone maybe close the door? so that we have a bit less background noise? Thank you. So we are starting the second session for the energy meeting in IETF 120 So let me go through the note well first So this is the not well that applies to the work we do in the context of the IRTF The IRTF follows the IETF intellectual program rights disclosure rules So please have a look at the slide and the experts is that you are familiar with the content of the slide and if you need to have more information to look also into the different pointers that are available here concerning the audio and video recording so as for all meetings, the IRTF routine makes recordings of online and in-person meetings including audio, video and photograph and privileges those recordings online. If you participate in person and choose not to wear a red dot, a red including audio, video and photograph, and privileges those recordings online. If you participate in person and choose not to wear a red, sorry, do not photograph lanyard, then you consent to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "appear in such recordings and if you speak at the microphone appear on a panel or carry out an official duty as a member of IRTF leadership, then you consent to appearing in recordings of you at that time If you participate online and turn on your car, or microphone, then you consent to appear in such recordings not well on the privacy and code of conduct So as a participant or attendee to any IRGF activity, you acknowledge that return audio and video and photographic records of meetings may be made public. Personal information that you provide to IRTF will be handled in accordance to the privacy policy and you can find the detail of this policy at the link. As a participant or attendee, you agree to work respectfully with other participants you can also turn to the ambus team if you have any question or concern about this code of conduct. And the details of the code of conduct and the harassment procedures are available in the following that you can find on this slide No, a very important message An Emergy is Network Management Research Group We are part of the IRTF So we feel it's important to always remind that the IRF conducts research work. It is not a standard development organization. We focus, I mean, the IRF focus on long-term research issues related to the Internet, while the parallel organization, the IETF focuses on shorter-term issues of engineering and standards making. The IETF can publish informational and experimental documents in the RFC series, but the primary goal of the research groups in the RTF is to promote the development of research courses collaboration and teamwork in exploring research issues related to internet protocols, application, architecture and technology. You have also more information"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "about the scope and approach of the IETF in the following link Some useful links, I think if you are in the room you're already familiar with that and for our remote participants, this can also be useful for connecting via Miteco, accessing to the node This is share notes. If you have inputs, you can also help us into taking minutes. And usually after a few days, the video recording of the session are available on the IETF YouTube channel Agenda for today so this is the introduction and presentation of the note well reminders. We will have a presentation by Benoa just after to give information about an upcoming workshop organized on behalf of the end and we can have also a round of let's say Q&A on this announcement then we have a series of presentations related to the intern-based networking work especially targeting the use cases that we take, I will say, the middle of the session And then at the end of the session, we spare some time to especially discuss the research agenda As you know, for several meetings, several months now we've been working to update the set of topics and the priorities that the group should work on in different areas And we would like to spend a bit of time to discuss this together in this session and try to converge to update of the research agenda very soon Any question on the agenda? Okay, so we can proceed Benoit, you're next All right, good afternoon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "So this session is a session that was presented Thank you. It's a session that was presented in the Ops area agenda. And I want to ask to repeat here, because there's a link with the NMR So it's about a new IBE workshop on the next era of network manager operations, Nemops. So there are multiple people involved and I'm going to mention a couple of things about that. There is the network chair Matt and myself. There is a Manhattan I'm going to mention a couple of things about that. There is the Netmoch chair, Matt and myself. There is Mahesh as Ops AD, there are IB members, and we've got Chin in the room with Wes and Suresh. So here is what happening. If you know about this RFC 3535, it's about an IBN network management workshop, which happens like in 2002 This document published the outcome of the workshop, which was a discussion between network operators and protocol designers. And to guide the IETF on what to do next So if you look at the right-hand side, there are a couple of requirements that were coming out of that and if you read through them you will understand that what within in NetConf, what with in NetMOT what about Yang, service model all of this is an outcome of the problem that were highlighted 20 years ago There are two aspects to this. There is requirement to document it but also recommendation. So again, I'm not going to go through all of them, but if you look at some of them, this is why we had like an eye statement on please don't to reach right mid modules. They are too difficult to implement This is the background now as I mentioned"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "direct and indirect outcome of these RFC netcom working group RestComp protocol, core count protocol the entire set of young modules whether this is at the network element level or at the service level, et cetera, et cetera. The telemetry we see now is also some how linked to that. So the in entire data modeling driven management shift that we've seen was already kind of not planned there, but at least the problem were highlighted now I mentioned many people involved the end mop working group is the kind of new working group at the first meeting at the last IT people involved. The NMOP working group is a kind of new working group at the first meeting at the last IETF. There are four topics in there The first three are kind of typical topic with you IETF. The last one highlighted in red here is consider and plan an approach for updating 3545 to produce abyss, collecting a updated operator requirements for IETF network management solutions. So that's why Mahesh asks us to create a kind of first workshop description That's how we were involved Now let's go to what are the objectives of this workshop first of all this is to review the outcomes of what happens since then 2 and identify the operational barriers that you as operators you are facing in network management. But also limitations in terms of how the I implement those, if I'm a vendor Now the next thing is to sketch new requirements right I have new requirements for future network management operations can we document this and I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "ideally for the IESG develop a plan of action and recommendation that would be good So if you know about IAB workshop to be typically, you are invited to provide a paper I'll explain a little bit what you want to discuss about Now, let me cover first the outreach there it's a fact that we have less operators that we have now that we had at the time of the workshop Right? We still have some. Thank you for coming we it means that we might want to do some, and we will be doing some outreach to go to places where the operators are discussing. Which one are those nanok ripe in europe autocon Apricot in Asia. Because, you know, we've seen too many times to research the people, please come and discuss with us about your problems. Well, if you want to get the real feedback, sometimes you just go to the people where these operators are And the next thing is that we tell them, you should be right should be writing like an IETF draft for a paper for the IB workshop Sometimes it doesn't work. So for us, it's more important to just say, we're going to go where the people are and try to document what they want to tell us Mahesh, for example, wen lin AutoCon in Amsterdam i plan to go to ripe with one of the ib want to tell us. Mahesh, for example, wen lin AutoCon in Amsterdam. I plan to go to Ripe with one of the IAB members. Some other people will go to Nanok, right? Now we're going to have those outreach sessions to gather the requirements there is a risk they're going to say you know your IETF stuff sucks right but okay it doesn't mean that we should not be doing like the collective effort to collect information and try to be better So topics, well, it could be tooling open source, experiment, POS"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "information, data consistency you know, to support richer observability. I see a lot of things, see people nodding in the crowd you know, data and knowledge Integration with business layer, automation, orchestration So it's like, crowd, you know, data and knowledge, integration with business layer, automation, orchestration. So it's slightly more complex than 22 years ago because at all in time it was mainly like config management. Maybe we now have bigger topics So we'll see which feedback we'll get get And the last slide is going to be announced soon This slide isn't updated, but it's right now in the data track So, Chin, if you are online, if you want to chat the link with the Datatracker, what is workshop is, that would be good. You might be subscribing to this mailing list And the workshop will be online at those days TVD, in blue there So this is what I wanted to say maybe one last point on why I'm here is the because in the ups area, we discussed like what is the role of an mrg and this is exactly one of the point that we need to clarify with one or two extra sentences. We add an eye breakfast on Tuesday, I believe and it was mentioned that we would like to welcome all the feedback and maybe going to triage telling, you know, just more for an emergency it was mentioned that we would like to welcome all the feedback and maybe going to triage telling, you know, this is more for an MRG if someone says, I want to do my AI ops with LMS or something like that as opposed to something more tactical And this is what we want to explain as well in the description, because we have to admit that people outside the IETF don't make a big distinction between IRTF and IESD and IETF. That's why I like your slide Lauren, reminding people what the RTF is about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "So did I cover all the points, Lauren, that you brought up in the ups area? Any more clarification? And Colin, if you want to add something on my hash, feel free. Yeah. Thanks, Beno. I mean, if any of I mean, IAB, RTF, representative want to chime in that's the time maybe if first, thanks, Bena, for making the presentation, the heads up Also, this is a call to the NRG as the research group, but also the wider community research community, network management. It's also part of this outreach. Go, I mean, you can provide input Go also talk to your contacts, your operator your researcher colleagues, fellows To think about this, have this in your radar and if you want to contribute you can propose inputs to the workshop, but you can also participate and be in the debate. So this is also to as Bruno was saying, to gather the requirements the expression of what should be done I think we have Shin first and Colin, if you want to make a comment Thanks, Ma Bai, to introduce Actually, uh, one thing is, you know, for I.B, actually, we plan this workshop we will move to the day track. We will move to the day trackers currently having finalized probably will, you know, make a long announcement at the end of this week and the workshop date already you know finalized. It should be not a 2d, actually And yes, so we have three workshop and actually we will have three sessions each day have one session and each session will have two or three hours. And so this still will do the editing and to make this you know fixed and yes, thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "and this is online Yes, it's an online meeting, not a you know physical meeting the reason is you want to get a, you know, broad, you know participation, actually, because some of our operators cannot make a trip to this kind of meeting So virtual meeting will get more broader support and participation yeah yeah calling please hi colin perkins yeah so I actually have very little to add I think, but when I did a really good description of describing the goals of the workshop and how everything is being organized I would encourage people from the research group and the research community to contribute, to make sure that there's an understanding of what's um what suits research group and the research community to contribute to make sure that there's an understanding of what's suitable for near-term work and what's still research I think that would be useful but yeah, I think we've already had a great description and looking forward to the workshop Thanks Mahesh, the only other point that I wanted to add to what Binva already mentioned in terms of outreach effort, as he said, he's covering ripe, which is great I'm going to cover order add to what Binva already mentioned in terms of outreach effort. As he said, he's covering ripe, which is great. I'm going to cover Audocon and I believe Drew is covering Apricot. The slot for Nanog is still open If you are somebody who regularly goes to Nanog, I would have a egg get in touch with me I do have put a draft proposal into Nanog, but I haven't put a presenter's name in there. So if you are willing to go and be part of that outreach effort duty, but I haven't put a presenter's name in there. So if you are willing to go and be part of that outreach effort, do reach out to me and let me know. Thanks This is actually a very good point whenever we say we'll go there it's not ownership, right. It's better to go with more people, in writing to go with more people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "and people who are connected to operators. So it's not like a jon peterson effort per conference So please help. Thank you Thanks, Bena. Thanks, everyone So please be watching out for the announcement and the updates and looking forward to your inputs on this upcoming workshop. So we move now to the next items for the agenda of today. So we switch to the idea Use Cases presentation Service is imprimos on promise. It's a good service. It's important Louis you. Thank you. Hello, everyone. This is Luis from Telefonica. I will present this draft about intent for green services on behalf of my quad for Guillermo So the motivation is the increasing interest in the different fora clearly also in IETF about the idea of incorporating the sustainable dimension to the provision of the services. So we attended yesterday, or most of us, attended yesterday the agreement above, and was cleared in this as well from the community on that respect So with the proposal of these interns the idea would be to allow the customers to express their design intents in terms of the green service objectives that they expect from the network provider so that they can express in the form of different attributes what they expect in terms of energy consumption or in terms even of CO2 footprint. This is relevant as well because somehow we can decouple both aspects For the same level of energy consumption, we could have different impact on the CO2 depending on the sources that generate the energy that is being consumed So the document by now, I'm primarily focuses on the structure and the attributes of the intent and the idea is to keep working on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "that and refine the both aspects, not the structure of the intent, but also the attributes that we were considering so what kind of expectations are we describing in the draft? On one hand, the energy consumption. So this attribute of this expectation will refer to the overall consumed energy of the service. Then the energy efficiency that will be basically, would relate to the ratio of energy per given unit of service here the first example is in terms of unit of traffic Then the carbon emissions that would be related to the CO2 footprint, so the grams of CO2 per kilowatt And finally, the usage of renewable energy that could be expressed as a kind of rate so maybe indicating that 20% or 30% of the expected consumption is expected to be using renewable energy Let me say that the two first attributes are inspired on what the 3 BP is defining for the slicing. They are defining the energy consumption and the energy efficiency in terms of the slices. Here, we are not talking of slices, but the communication services in general but somehow the first two are inspired on that And the other two are inspired on some quality indication that the Berek, which is the board of regulators in europe is identifying as a indicators that the regulation of authorities in Europe could consider, or are considering to be collected and to be reported These four attributes are not necessarily required at the same time, so a customer can either specify one, two, or three or even the following These four attributes are not necessarily required at the same time. So a customer can either specify one, two, or three, or even the four. But not all of them should be necessary be specified at the same time Regarding the lights cycle, the internal life cycles, so the expectations would be in the fulfilled phase"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "fulfillment phase, sorry, that the customer specific or complement the request of the specifications of the intent of the service with this green dimension we can, in the framework of the project where we are developing this we refer to this as the carbonization level agreement. So we will have one one hand the service level agreement the expectations in terms of a SLOs and so, but also we will have these expectations in terms of green dimension, right? so this intent would be translated by the, the translate, translate component, check again different policies. For instance, where to deploy in terms of Yale or affiliate and so on so far or if we need to restrict the flows going for a given geographical area or whatever so that would be the policies to be applied and then the final step in the fulfillment phase will be the configuration of the network so the actual provision and enforcing of the flows in the network Regarding the assurance phase, the expectation would be from the network to provide a number of, to collect metrics and provide these metrics in order to be reported to the customer Here we reference to the existing draft on grip metrics in OXO We have not yet done the mapping of these green metrics to the expectations that I mentioned before, but the idea will to leverage on existing work, for sure. Then we've done metrics The provider could take some actions, what we call here in terms closed loop. So maybe in based on those metrics take internal actions before reports anything to the customer. It could be an option and also and even with these metrics we reported it could be exposed to the to the customer and here we are pointing out to the draft Petra Path Energy AP that we will present later on today in Panergy, that essentially is an API for exposing the let's see, the allocation of, yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "later on today in Panergy, that essentially is an API for exposing the, let's see, the allocation of energy to a given services service in a path. And then finally with this the last step would be to report all the information to the customer and with this information the customer could even trigger any correct any action for correcting the service or whatever if the expected are not committed So the next step for this draft is to be to collect it feedback from the research group it's in version zero so it's very new. So we would like to see if it's of interest for the research group we expect to keep work on the implementation of the described intent. As I said, this is framed in a research project, a Seas Green project So we are doing some implementation on this the intents and so the structure. So, yeah, we will report on the progress of this implementation And yeah, we would like also to have a more clear link with the other drafts, the other efforts in general, not only these two, but the other efforts that are being done in regarding the green dimension so in such a way that we can start linking things and see how things fit together And I think that that's all. Thank you thanks we have time for questions please Uh, from the implementation point of view on the device level there's some basic power consumption that's not directly related to the service load So in this case, I guess we need to divide share this basic power consumption between a different service Yeah, that's correct, and there are discussions on there is a number of discussions in different million leaders about how to allocate the proportion consumption for a given service. So the idea would be to, yeah working on that part, let's say, in that front how we can generate such"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "kind of allocation if it is meaningful or not it is proportional to the to the traffic or not these kind of things But the idea, yeah, would be to do proportional to what the customer is using So another question is that do we have specific hardware requirement to have better support for this service level? poor consumption evaluation? I would say that at the level of the intent you don't have a have better support for this service level of poor consumption evaluation. I would say that at the level of the intent you don't have any specific need, so you first thought is that you don't require anything so you could have even play this with existing legacy equipment so then it's just a matter of reporting what is being used not not anything especially this this. But I need to think more of that but I think nothing special. Thank you. Next, Ava Schmidt, please oh Arashmit so actually I was sharing the same concern as the previous speaker. Like, you know, you might actually need some updates into that distance software to separate the services from the resource allocation perspective because we do that when we actually, you know, let's say we go to the hardware to allocate some resources so there might be some extra much monitoring. The question I have is that is this bounded to a single operator or we'll change we actually, you know, let's say we go to the hardware to allocate some resources. So there might be some extra monitoring. The question I have is that is this bounded to a single operator or we're thinking about a service within multi-operator services as well In other words, is this going to be recursed, like, you know, uh, archivative? I will say that in a multi- multi-operator scenario, you would require somehow to divide the intent so because at the end you are fulfilling this service in a, at the very end, in a single domain and so, so I presume that would be required to divide the intent in a multi-domain scenario you will require to apply per domain and so how having a kind of overarching intent applying to all the different domains for instance let's think on the cloud service with some network support to probably that intent should be divided for some part being sold by the cloud manager, let's say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "any other part, the rest of the park is solved by the SDN controller and then putting all together for satisfying the intent Right. And then, okay, so let's say now come compatibility of devices so let's say because we don't operate the network altogether, so they are going to be like, you know, gaps in between devices upgrades. Like, you know, what happens in between, how, what we do in terms of then the network eventually comes to the point that all the notes basically have being you know required infrastructure to support the service i didn't get well the question so sorry, no. So, if there is any requirement of software upgrades, right? So we do not upgrade all the nodes at once right so I'm assuming that we need something to do some work in the nodes, you know, in just, you know, separate leases So meanwhile, what happens are, are, is at once, right? So I'm assuming that we need some to do some work in the nodes, you know, in just, you know, separate leases. So meanwhile, what happens are, is, you know, compatibility or backward I don't know what you call it, but from a node that is sitting on a previous release that doesn't have this capability to the note that has this capability, we need to have some sort of place to think how things progress from that, right? We need to think on that, but I presume that will be in line with the allocation problem that we have discussed before how to allocate the proportional value of energy to a given service all right thanks Luca thank you Okay so i have a couple of observations So first thank, thanks for bringing new work to the research group I think it will be important as we stated, about the research approach research goal of the group to situate where what part of this work that you are starting identifying research questions, the really aspect of the challenges with respect to intent or green aspect as part of this approach. And also, I mean, yesterday we had I think, a very good growth on green I mean, there are a number of, let's say, things that the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "would be working group expect to cover. So I think it's also important to situate maybe part of this work globally that would fit more into, okay, research aspect versus also some more implementation engineering aspect. I think it could even be a good synergy between the two but making this separation could also be very relevant Also, because you present it think it could even be a good synergy between the two, but making this separation could also be very relevant. Also, because you present this as a use case, so there is currently in EMERG, the IBM use case let's say, thread. So also to situate well maybe from a timeline or contribution, how you expect this use case to integrate with the other use cases Yeah, and maybe so that's for more let's say the positioning maybe just a remark now on the motto as the green buff for this work, because if I remember correctly, yesterday there was this aspect of how are we going to organ the fact that we have now means to collect energy efficiency metrics to means to optimize and also means to control and manage and I think this intent, let's say, mechanism could be some now means to collect energy efficiency metrics, means to optimize, and also means to control and manage. And I think this intent, let's say, mechanism could be something to propose to the green activities, or green both activities, as many a means to achieve this kind of overall coordination or guidance for this aspect Because I think it was an open point, but how we are going to do that as part of the more working group activities. Okay, thank you Got it. I think you're next also with the next presentation Oh, sorry, yeah. Alex um yes oh yes thank you noise One question I have actually concerns the intents themselves. I looked briefly at your draft and I think it would be useful to put some more interesting examples, I guess, of intent there. The way I see it right now, is you draft identifies the number of metrics, which, of course, basically, the intent would be, okay, as an operator, you want to have them as good as possible, right? So basically however, as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "a, but however, there's nothing concerning whether to say, well, what might be some of the trade-off that you said with other operational goals what are some exceptions under which you might be willing to compromise? on one goal in order to achieve something else and so forth I think basically getting some, also some operator feedback or example of such things would strengthen the draft and the intent behind this Thanks. Thanks Alex. Yeah, it's a very good point. Yesterday, for instance, we discussed about the impact on QOS and these kind of things So maybe something that we can elaborate more and explore in the framework of this there. Thank you Okay, I will cover now an update of the interconnection in intent on behalf of my co-authors So they just as a recap the motivation for this draft was basically now we are, I mean, the communication services are in terms of interconnection are going beyond just the simply interchange of IP traffic. So there are now capable services that can just the not only the interchange of IP traffic, but also the usage of resources for other different domains or service functions and so, service function chains and so on so far So the idea would be to extend that notion of interconnection to something larger that just simply IP IP-Pering or IP transit. So I said, trading resources or trading functions, even even so the objective of the draft is to leverage on I trading resources or trading functions even. So the objective of the draft is to leverage on IBM technologies for such and rich interconnection and we originally describe a number of scenarios. You can see there are two lines in blue that would be the additions in this draft. So the original situations were for sure the interconnection of the simple interconnection, let's say, but also the cases like interconnection for non-public to public networks in the case of IG"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "multi-domain networks a service request, or multi-domain network retaliation that were the initial ones We have added to this the provision of services in the H-Cloud continuum. So how to deploy different workloads, maybe coming from Kubernetes or whatever other solution and so that we not only signal they need of some volume of traffic, but also the need of resources or even or if the workloads are already deployed the need of accessing such a workload In the case, in which respect the most of the usage of the interconnection intent again would not be required to have all the capabilities at the same time. We can only stay with IP traffic interconnection so the transitional pitting, or we can go further than that. For instance, thinking on services, maybe the interconnection of CDN caches could be a case the virtual network function as a service could be another case so that. For instance, thinking on services, maybe the interconnection of CDN caches could be a case. The virtual network function as a service could be another case. So, for instance, packet core capabilities in mobile virtual network operators Also, signaling computing capacity that could be required for the project new services and in the new edition will be the deployment of microservices in the cloud-native approach in the Edge Cloud Continuum Any combination of them, of all of them, would be also feasible So updates from the latest version, we have extended the scenarios to include this edge cloud continuum We have added a new example of a the intent for delivering such composition of service functions in the edge cloud. I will go in the following slides. Also, we have added a reference to draft and grow that is different appealing API That would be one of the, let's say, the following slides. Also, we have added a reference to draft and grow that is different appealing API. That would be one of the ways of activating, I mean, once we translate the Internet being translated to this PILIN API There is a new section that we have introduced about the lessons learned, so in such a way that we can read what we are finding as long as we are implementing these these capabilities and finally, we have a new co-author There's C. Beli Vasaki from Cine Alexis and also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "contributors to the draft So going quick to okay, to the lessons learned So basically we realize we need to find proper ways of automating service deployment and this will require the possibility of triggering actions not only the network but also in the cloud. So somehow some kind of add towards our interaction with cloud management systems as could be Kubernetes, open stack of water could be required in that translation phase Also, the need of having multiple adapters, because we will have different technologies underneath, both at cloud and network levels so the intern is how an abstract level and we need to adapt to the different implementations that we can find underneath. That could be in the case of a network different control or even implementing overlay solutions that somehow help us to skip the complexity of these multiple controllers. In the case of the cloud systems, the same stories or leveraging on the APIs of the different solutions, Kubernetes OpenStack, and so Because this is a particular scenario of interconnection is key to have some agreement on the semantics of the intents. At the end, it's a multi-stakeholder situation here what we have from the service perspective So all of them need to have the same understanding of what is expected from the intent so the translation should be common let's say to the different operators involved in this interconnection operators or or cloud service providers next slide provide a very simplistic and initial example of this delivery of composite service functions at the SQL continuum. So essentially the idea would be to you know, as expectation to indicate the service function continuum in these different compute facilities across the network and identifying both capabilities regarding the network like bandwidth, latency, and so, but also capabilities in the cloud system, the virtual CPU, the virtual memory and so far. Regarding bandwidth, latency, probably"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "there is here a discussion, it should be a composed metric, including the delay in the cloud plus the delay in the network. We need to go into those details and to figure out if necessary to go to further detail of that level of abstraction would be sufficient So as next steps, we would like to discuss the proper structure of the intents sorry, the structure of the intents is the proper one be sufficient. So as next steps, we would like to discuss if the proper structure of the intense is the proper one. Here there is a typo. We are referring that the structure that we are using that is basically this kind of structure is the same that is being considered in Etsy and 3gbp so there is a typo there so we are one wondering if that same kind of expressing the intents would be the appropriate for IETF. And maybe it could be a good discussion to understand what kind of, let's see, structure of intent we could adopt as a common language here in IRTF. We would like to collect feedback on the approach followed, if makes sense or not. And also, see how we can integrate with the other users cases and these kind of things. And yeah, we will keep working on that. We are implementing as well this in some projects or there will be some software available to open source solution available sooner than later on on this intent as well in fact we are already indicating a repo where you can find some implementation so it will be available for the public use And that's all from us, I think Thank you, Rose limited time for questions if there are any feedback on the update of this work okay thanks thank you thanks move on the next presentation Paul, please Hello, this is John Porzong. I am editor for use cases and practice for international not talking, co-editor, Kehan, Dan"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "Danyang, and co-sler Chinu Chun yang, Luis, and also other many contributors we are working on this draft So basically this draft is a starting point to make consolidate all use cases dropped from an MRG and also OPSA this draft is a starting point to make, consolidate all use cases dropped from NMRG and also Opsar, WG, etc So we want to make the position for this document in terms of NMRG inter-based networking The RFC 9-315 in interdivation networking concept and definition So we made a summary of the practical learnings from the previous use case documents in terms of difficulties or challenges and research directions So we merged IBM use cases so why do we need a merging? Because there are many a lot of documents still active in NMR and also other groups like OPSA WG. So some of them may have a similar ideal, similar common foundation Some have a different approach So the goal is we try to make ergonomics a system way and then are condensed the research value and the research direction for our intent-driven networking So we made some progress after IETF 109 Also, we had an interim meeting last month, June 20 pips with Jerome, our chair so we discussed how to consolidate the use cases So Jerome gave several comments Also, also tried to address the comment. So we made the zero and zero one version"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "so most of the comments from in intermeeting, we believe addressed so methodologies and also we made a new section for learning and the takeaway Takeaway means some important key conclusion so still are we need to polish up So because we include several use cases documents, but still do not in terms of some adepts also tone, a little, you know, we need to do some policy of itself. So this left side, we have the table of content So the main content is the introduction and the methodology for building IBM system. And the section three is IBM use cases merging several IBM use cases also so we included practical learning also the research directions So the methodologies for a building IBM, so in order to IBM, we need to know system awareness and data collection. So we addressed the message a building IBM, so in order to IBM, we need to know system awareness and the data collection. So we addressed the methodology tool, also metric and the granularity based on that we can construct the IBM system. So we have you know, the six steps So the first overall operator or user make the intent and then the intent should be translated into specific some policy in terms of net user make the intent. And then the intent should be translated into specific policy in terms of network operation, in terms of applications so we can use NLP or large language model. So we can generate the typical thing is a 3G pp they have their own intent or large language model. So we can generate. Typical thing is 3GPP. They have their own intent-driven management services for mobile network The specification number is 20 I remember 23 3"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "own intent-driven management services for mobile network. The specification number is 20. I remember 23-1-2, something like that, 28 28.312. So that intent, yeah, so Yarmel model currently my group investigate So we can translate the specific some target policy like that. After that, we needed to deliver specific some controller imports that policy into network and application spaces It is called intent deployment. After that, we need to verify through monitoring data okay so we can use machine learning AI try to make sure through monitoring data okay so we can use machine learning AI try to you know make sure so verification or validation we should make sure also this one also the evaluated so our optimization is good or not so those are relevant use cases document okay so section 3 three title is the IBM use cases so we try to merge but Luis I mentioned during the this work some of use cases direct still ongoing, tried to make the specific details So our authors and contributors of use cases are still ongoing, tried to make the specific details. So our authors and contributors, we are thinking certain use case dropped can merge chemistry can merge, but some of them developed, you know, impact parallel. So about the structure of section three, I mentioned still the you know level of depth or so what you is different. So we tried to make some improvement next revision and also the practical learning uh so that i'm improvement next revision. And also the practical learning, so there are many challenges and questions. The first one is how to build the IBM system especially dynamic and natural environment"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "like some resources especially multi-domain, cross-domain scenario case. So, for example, service function, training case, we need to figure out appropriate the service function in terms of some network status, also resource constraint So how to make a substance training dynamically also how to provide the multi-domain environment but also we need to consider constrained IBM deployment, especially some IoT scenario case, how to manage that kind of resources constraint The future directions are we need to make the genetic, the intent of model for life cycle assurance based on RFCC 93 people we need to make the generic intent model for life cycle assurance the base on RFC, 9315, and then autonomous end-to-end that network generation, because the end to end the network case usually the multi-domain multi-autonomous systems, right, involved in that case, how to, you know, guarantee color team of experience for users and also the user intent, the software one is a translation into policy, right? So in that case, usually some natural language or some web-based some template that translate into specific some YAML or a young model also that would also eventually translate into low-level policy, right? So many of the cases, the designer of data, young models over YAML, different persons. So in that case, we should use some LLM model. So this is a very challenge, because the accuracy of translation is very challenging So in the past, my I-2-N-S case we made a nice translator But the high-level young model, lower the young model design So in the past, my I2 NSF case, we made a nice translator. But the high-level young model designed by myself, my group members. So we made a nice"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "algorithm using Zhang Shasha algorithm. So we proved a concept. But usually, you know, high-level young over intent, low-level, different structure So we cannot use just the algorithm approach so we should the LM but how to you know verify translation is accurate or not that is a very different problem so now we should the LM. But how to verify translation is accurate or not? That is a very different problem. So next step is that we want to polish up document in terms of the level or maturity of Section 3 and that we enhance. Okay, so please give a comment Today, also, mailing list, so we try to enact this draft Also, maybe the assumption caucus may be next IETF 121, double link we want authors try to call adoption. Also, this is a short appendix report So Hackathon project case, oh, this one, okay, maybe okay, skip. You can just report to, okay, so right Hekerson project case, oh, this one, okay, maybe, okay, skip. You can just report to office. Thank you. Let's make maybe a bit of time to have some feedback on this aggregated document First, thanks for presenting on the help of the authors. Okay please, yeah, speak of your thank you for for the presentation and they thought you have made on the document. So maybe I'll first comment on your last question here with the adoption call Our opinion as chair is, we should not use adoption call as a speed and we mean to speed up the development because you know in the criteria we need to have already some we assume that the work should be enough material. And as you said, you have no only a pilot of use case in section three but i think it will be good for to refine the document and to clean up this Right, yeah. This part before we can proceed to free stuff. Right, yeah, yeah. So, but of course, thank you very much for this effort and now I have a question also our comments more as a participant"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "So, and this also relate to this section three because no you have you say that you will work to have something more let's say yeah coherent over all this section we're getting all use case And at some time you have this section about about practice learning, which has think it's we it will it's a good thing to have. But my suggestion will be to extract from the different use case also the practice lines that you can then put there in this section, because no, this section of practice learning, I would say is quite general but what could be good is to have this in this section to show, for example, this problem is a difficult program but it was more difficult in this case for this reason because of this property of this use case and so to just to under as a reader, know if I want to build an IP and system for different use case, which might be more similar to this one or this one to understand which problem I should consider first as a main problem I should, I should Okay. So just maybe to also yes in this practice learning to do some like a kind of differentiation or learning in person in regard to the different use case. So your meaning is current you know practice learning to general try to okay address it individual use cases, try to apply what kind of, yeah, practice. Yeah, somewhat try to see, for example, in this type of use case, this property makes this problem more difficult than in this use case. Okay, yeah, so we try to address some the use cases is the demand need to some analysis right okay thank you yeah also do you want to try to, you know, adoption code? only or still we need to make more mature and so what do you know the advice My advice is to wait for a more let's say, mature, as you plan to work quite a well on the document maybe next I take meeting right okay good thank you Thank you. Okay, okay, at Daniel. Hi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "king. So obviously the chairs have kind of given their opinion on what to do next or working towards an adoption call but I guess the first thing I wanted to make, or the first point I want to make is that the mapping between intent and policy sort of decorative to imperative is really complicated. You know, how you compile and how it gets applied it's extreme subjective based on the IBM so the intent-based, sort of network, scenario. So you might have multiple languages that you want to use in the network to actually apply that policy So it's rather subjective and there are sort of at least seven or eight that I can think of immediately. What might be useful is having in the appendix some examples of how you use the security IBM and you mentioned that you've developed an engine yourself, but I can provide some reference for other engines and language models that can then be used to apply that policy in the network And I think, you know, we've kind of answered the question about working with adoption but I just want to state that at least for researchers, it's often much more valuable to tie research in terms of citations and referencing to a document that is enshrined in, say, the ILT offer the IETF. It's sometimes very difficult if it's still a individual draft to kind of justify its existence in a sort of a robust academic journal as part of a project That was just an observation okay so then so let me credit my question so do you suggest some appendix okay so previous my security stuff or other academia yeah, try to, you know, add to show specific, right? Right, right, exactly yeah and and I can give you some some other examples And then at least with an appendix, it's useful for the reader to see some implementations and some examples, and it can be removed if assuming that it is adopted and then public at some point in the future, if the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "appendix is useful, it can be kept in, if not, it can just be removed and used elsewhere Okay, I see. So recently, you know, I participate in you know, the Nassop also I was a TPS chair of Nintendo Base Network workshop So, you know, several on a paper workshop and the main, Nestop, they are talking about intent-based networking trends translation, also how to construct the knowledge base So definitely I, you know, include the appendix okay thank you then okay so any more questions I just have an observation to what Dan was mentioning about a research group draft being, if I were in South Korea, observation to what Dan was mentioning about a research group draft being if I understood correctly easier to use as a reference So yeah, maybe this is probably a practice but I like just to remind that it's not because a draft as a research group status that it's deterministic on the fate of this document This document may well never be published as an RFC maybe withdrawn, maybe change to something else. So I understand the practicality but I think we should be quite clear also when we use a research group document as a reference that is still a draft So yeah, so maybe, you know, the you know, right, so we have two elaborators, normal teams that is still a draft. So, yeah, so maybe, you know, as you know, right, so we have two elaborators, normative and informative, right? So I think a normative is a user yeah. So maybe, you know, as you know, right, so we have two elaborators, normal TIP and informative, right? So I think a normal TIP is usually RFC and, you know, informer yeah, yeah, RAPRENC is usually, you know draft also, I think, doable, right? So again, so the RAPC usually you have two, you know, kind of, references, normal-tive and informative so in formative case we can still include the draft rather than RAPC. Also, paper academic paper, also in the past, I've been published P-WAP, RPC, the province state of the cases we include many academia paper as important"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "So, okay, maybe that we have time quickly. Yeah, yeah, yeah yes. So, so just to follow on a couple of points that Lauren made there, first of all, if we reference in an appendix, what nice about the appendix, it can be removed or put a note that, you know, this section to be removed by the, before publication Having a document that other papers and journals and projects can reference at the IETF or IRTF is really useful. And as a recent evaluation, of JUSNS and S, there were a bunch of proposals some of which were successful, so congratulations this morning if you got that email, that reference the NDT concepts document which is really good, right? I mean, it shows that the work that we're doing in this research group for instance, is actually being cited and used in several other areas. So that's just the observation I want to make. Yeah, yeah, I mean, I think that's, I mean, it's the practice. My comment was, more on being cautious about the meaning of a individual draft versus research group or working with draft versus an RFC and the status of an RFC Not everybody makes a distinction and sometimes you see just that it's a draft format in the in the because it's a standardization endorsed work. Absolutely. This kind of subtility I think we should try to be careful us because we know a bit when we use it. But I agree with you. It's nice also that these things can be referenced, but we need to be cautious about the action use of it Thanks. Okay, thank you for the work and now we are entering the, let's say, open discussion from the research group of interview. So we will give a brief statement update about some let's say where we stand on documents and past actions"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "But the key topic will be the discussion on the research agenda Okay Okay, so we have one document that is currently under IRG review, so the draft on the green challenges and opportunities This is, let's say, ongoing We have the we had some interim meetings in June with a focus on two aspects One was what we just saw before making progress and understanding the group approach to IBM use cases. I think this was quite useful and thanks for the participant for this work and the preparation. And then we had also a part of the interim to discuss the green aspects of the research agenda Jerome was driving also some questions towards the group about it and we got some input and feedback. We will run a final call on the AI challenges draft After the last IETF there were some updates so we wanted to make a last check before entry RIESG review to make sure that the group has come consensus on the status of this document We are also a bit anticipating on Dublin I don't know if it's only me, but I saw a lot of good proposal ideas, people want to move forward with a lot of things So let's say we would like to a bit the expectation and say, OK, we have time until Dublin as a milestone to put things together so it could be addressing some topics through interim meetings or consider also what we used to do some years to collocate maybe some discussion with research conferences"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "I think there is CNSM in October, which could be one of the milestone. And I think for some of the activities also in IRF and IETF, related to our topics, the hackathon could also be something to maybe entertain as an idea if some of the activity that people active in the research group may want to bring to an academy type of activity. I'm thinking about maybe some NDT implementation or IBM implementation that could be your something to, let's say, discuss and to see how we can get organized if there are motivation to make it happen We are also a bit, let's say, opening in that advance goals for what kind of topics or what topics you would like to see addressed in the energy session as part of IETF 121. Usually we open a call for topics, but if people have also already some ideas to say okay this could be a group of interesting presentation on a number emerging topic. The more time we have also to continue external people to participate this is also a very useful in terms of participation and of course open for suggestion in terms of how we are going to drive until Dublin in terms of preparation for the research group So that's for the update. If you have any comments, come to the mic please. Then moving on So before we go for for for more the details we are going to have, let's say, two parts of this discussion on the research group agenda. One is more about our are going to have, let's say, two parts of this discussion on the research group agenda. One is more about, I will say, the type of work, the type of outcome that the research group is producing and the opinion of the group on that and the second aspect is more related to the topics themselves the actual technical questions that we want to address So, I mean, if you've been following the group we had already a few meetings back a similar discussion about the types of contribution and outcomes So for me, this is both a kind of a reminder"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "but also a kind of a question or a request to the group. We operate with draft and RFC I mean, we are part of IRTF and IETF, so this is really the tools that we are using or the medium we are using And it's also very useful to use draft and RFCs to articulate and document the research group research And this is also seen from outside, as I think Dan was mentioning that the ideas are also on the Datatracker. This can be seen from outside and usually use as references. Also draft can also be a good vehicle to move some works towards an IETF working group I mean, the question on the green intent or some really good aspect this could also be i mean we have seen sometimes work started as a draft in energy, then move to an ops area, for instance or to other groups. And I think this is also a good, a good this medium But the important thing is that draft should not be the only target in terms of the form of what we use to discuss to work in the research group We can also think about more a draft or less rigid methodology because with the draft, we have also some associated processes that makes it maybe sometimes a bit rigid to to have maybe more discussion on the contents, not on the form so we can have maybe also more brainstorming sessions that could be all organized as part of the research group activities and supported maybe research some extended abstract or maybe some technical deep dive, so different forms of inputs for a discussion, not only based on drugs but also other facets like having practical work or implementation proof of concept, coding to validate some of the ideas I mean, we have a series of IBM use cases Some of them are supported with proof of concept and implementation So I think this is also quite interesting to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "beyond having concept in the slides or formats to also maybe come up with, this is a mechanism, this is an algorithm that can help to solve this problem and we can report also more on the feasibility on the progress in terms of state-of-the-art solving certain aspect of the problem that we are tackling Then there is also technical presentation or workshop series. I will say research group does not have to operate as a working group. We are not here to provide updates of a draft I mean, it's good to if there is important changes, but I think this is not the purpose. The hard time that we have, we can also try to dedicate that to go a bit more deeper into some of the questions that we want to address. It could be architectural questions it could be algorithm, it could be any kind of question, but I think we should also try to think more about the depth of what we want to discuss especially when we meet in the idea meeting So the next let's say, part of this mention is to also be able to identify a bit earlier in the lifecycle of what we do, the forms of how we want to support the work because, okay, it's good to have a draft as an initial capture of some of the ideas but then we can, I think we should try it also to be a bit more flat a bit more free to say okay why not make it a problem publiclation why not gather some content on the wiki page or gather a repository for that asset? or for certain elements? Think about organizing a workshop on this question instead of entertaining a draft or maybe other webinars. So you see, think about different forms of how you want to conduct the discussion on the topic, how to want to progress the research and not just fall back always by default to say, oh, let's write an internet draft We want to have Internet draft for the research group, that's fine sure, but we should try to escape also that this only medium that we are using to convey our research outcome. Colin?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:09",
    "text": "Hi, colin perkins You said that a research group quite how you phrased it, doesn't need to act like a working group. I think I would probably go further and say it shouldn't act like a working group And I think I would probably say that to any of the research group the goal of a IETF working group is to progress documents and to produce documents and standards The goal of a research group is to understand And understanding doesn't necessarily result in documents. It may result in papers It often does result in papers. It sometimes results in experimental RFCs and informational RFCs but the fundamental goal of a research group is to improve understanding And I think many research groups because they collocate with the IETF, fall into the habit of acting like IETF working groups and working on documents and producing documents and producing drafts and so on. And in some cases that's appropriate. I mean, you know, I'm not saying something producing drafts. I mean, stop producing RFCs of course there's there's sometimes a need for rFCs But remember that the goal of the research group is to enhance understanding and not to develop documents Yeah, that's something I say regularly to many research groups, not something that's specific to this group Thank you, Colin. Appreciate it. And again I think the comments are really, I mean, this is a discussion for the group and by the group. This is not just the cheers or IRTF chair talking. So it's, it's reflection and we would like to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "the group also to endorse or to add by the group. This is not just chairs or IRTF chair talking. So it's more reflection and we would like to the group also to endorse or to adhere to this way forward We would like to run just a couple of questions in the tool to gather a bit to situate, I will say, perception of the group on how we drive our activity and if we are, if we're having, let's say, producing the right type of outcomes. So Jerome is going to run it So, yeah. So, yeah so the first question is do you think that an energy produces or produced in the let's say last year's the right type of results so independently on the topics, okay, just not on the topics. Here we are talking about, just on the type of results, outcomes Thank you So please, cast your vote. We would like also to kind of use this afterwards you see, to reflect us cheers, whether I mean, how we have to act on that coming back to the group, whether we see a specific train or not, and we'll say kind of analyze this this is let's say collecting feedback So we give you, let's say, one more tens of seconds Go through that. Anyway, you can always come to the mailing list or to us if you have a views on this. There will be another question following. So, yes we just ran this is the next question but as you as the poll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "but as you can see here that it's quite balance between yes and no so for the people ready to talk, we will just run the second question first, get the answer, and then we will open a round of discussion. Open comments, yes So the second question is do you think the NMAG uses the right approaches to work? on the topics? You see, that's the reason I carry my phone with me so I can be cool Thank you very much Okay, Tim Queen we can stop now the pole. So again, it's very balanced so meaning that there's probably things that has to be changed, right? So now it's open for the question. Okay, Dean Yes, hi This is a research group and in the management space we are still talking about managing devices in an old management framework that hasn't changed for decades now We are just reiterating the same framework. And adding new flavors to that, but it's all the same framework The service providers are running into a problem of how managing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "multiple networks They know how to manage millions of devices within one network, maybe two networks, but they have no idea how to manage many networks as a managed service providers The enterprises are more and more interested in an outcome and get a whole cost center infrastructure being provided as a service by someone This can be different things, but in our case, it's a network So the service providers are facing a challenge They see it as an opportunity to increase their revenue but they don't know how to manage many networks in this case that they would have to manage without adding significance amount of human resources in order to do that. That is an area that I haven't seen much conversation about that. So how to manage many networks is a problem in the industry and people. It's a real business problem for and there is a lot of opportunity there and not much there. And the second one is if we want to continue using our existence management framework, it has been going in the we will have like a device management system and there will be a network management system we can rename them in many different ways, but it always comes to that and unless we have a different approach to this we won't be able to solve many of the real problems that are coming. Some of the proposals that are coming and being presented are something that has been already done in the industry by the startups and has been adopted. But what they did is they focused on a particular problem and solved it. For example, in IBM space, IBM space based networking there were four startups"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "One focused on a data center problems, and it's quite successful with that But they said, that's a real-world problem. And then they from there on, they said this is how we will be solved it so network management as a general framework I think it's in either quite for going forward, especially for the problems that that network are operators are seeing, that are seeing, you know, going forward Thank you, Dean. We capture that daniel king So it's regarding the first question that you asked And another way to phrase that is, has the research group been successful? And how do we measure? success? I thought the well, I answered yes, I thought that the research group has actually published and sort of provided valuable output And one example of that was the document I talked about earlier the NDT concepts, because I'm seeing it reference not just in an academic journals, but also as, you know, part of funding programs and how it's going to use that document and build on it and we can see actually that one of the outputs or actually of the research group that Connick Colin identified is that we are able to seed ideas and new work and even new working groups in the IETF so for me that's sort of measurable success. And the NMRG has achieved that because now there's a whole host of digital map, digital twin activity that's happening However, you know, it hasn't, you know, perfect and maybe it's actually the structure of the IRTF itself, not any individual research group. One observation I would make is that sometimes the NMR becomes a gravity well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "for topics that might actually be discussed or should be discussed in other areas So that's maybe diluted a little bit of the discussion and the time of the research group as well. Thank you Maybe, Dan, any idea? or to, let's say, organize this gravity? well? Faster than light travel? I don't know. How to escape the gravity? well is very difficult. No, it's a hard problem Got no solution So what? I'm not sure if we can escape from the dance well, but some dance well, but something that could help as well, something that I hear, I hear and again is about the difficulties in attracting academic research to these kind of groups and I was wondering with thinking about the means I was wondering whether we could try to find a way of collaboration somehow, I mean, formally collaborating, then emergists with some journal or events so we could try to organize special issues or special sessions in conferences and connect this with our drafts or even trying to find fine-tune a little bit more the procedures required drafts to be published inside the NMRG, or inside the general research group to be connected with publications at the same time Because I believe that one of the problems is that activity here for the canonical researchers is not so appealing because it is this does of the problems is that activity here for the canonical researchers is not so appealing because it doesn't have a reflection in the in their academic records and if we can find a way in which we could collaborate with the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:00",
    "text": "publishers or organizers, I guess and it should not be difficult, I mean, or well, not be difficult because, I mean, somebody, would be taking care of it, but this kind of collaboration probably could be beneficial at least as a way to explore thank you Diego maybe just quick let's see information on this point I mean we are doing that Maybe the question is, maybe we're not doing that enough or with enough visibility because we had in the recent history several workshops on the topic of NRG that are been organized in different research communities. We have been also inviting special issues We had some outreach. Probably this is maybe we could do more or bring to the right visibility or to the right communities. Or trying that the N been also inviting special issues, we had some outreach. Probably this is maybe we could do more or bring to the right visibility or to the right communities. Or trying that the NMR acronym is better seen. That's probably that. Yeah, so that may be a question to to to calling because at least for me Enemergy is a group, it has an existence but even us as chairs we are just, I mean, servant of the group And usually it's the individuals that do the activity. So you see on behalf of energy, it's a bit sometimes challenging to I mean, there is no way to, to, to enmergy as a group outside it's the individual, actually. So, and we try to also to be careful not to confuse that because we can point instance, we can present what NRG is into a country or in a university, but we cannot act on behalf of the group to say this is what the group thinks or what. So it's also a bit of challenge. Okay, we have not show and then we try to maybe also we have also a few on the top so we have like 10 minutes left so please naturally in the queue then we have calling we will present the slide on the topic and we can make"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "come back if we have time to some discussion on the on the mic. Natcha from Telefonica just a comment on the approach for contributing i think what we are missing here is in my opinion experimentation This is a research group, and I know this is IETF, and the tendency is to work on RIS and drafts, but I think we are missing here experimentation in IETFD place. So far, it's the hackathon I don't know if this work in group could focus on the hackathon for as another way or contributing or even, I don't know, uses the enemy slot itself to share the same contributions that are shared in Hakathon as is today It's just a proposal to be more active on experimentation from the from the from the from the group Yeah, Colleen, please colin perkins. I mean, I think when you're talking to groups outside the IETF, and IRF, I don't think there is so much of a concern about going as for example, the NMR chair and saying this is what NMR figure think there is so much of a concern about going as, for example, the NMR chair and saying, this is what NMRG thinks, because it's not a standard activity where the goal is to have an opinion and produce a single way of doing something you're going as representatives of the group to say we have this venue if you're in a going as representatives of the group to say we have this venue if you're in if you're doing research this venue might be a helpful place for you to connect to people in the standards community"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "and connect to the broader industry and try and help ground your research in the needs of the operators and the standards developers and help as a researcher you to understand what that community, what problems that community has so don't think of it as you need to go and even even jealousize. It's been a long week the views of what this group is thinking go and say this is a venue where you can come and connect And again, don't, don't expect people from the research communities come in and bring to drafts because that's not the value proposition the value proposition is making connections and learning from this community from things which they can't get from going to an economy conference You know, they have the opportunity to bring their ideas in and get them socialized in the space which is very close to the standards area and they get the ability to learn from people who are running networks and who are developing standards in a way that often doesn't happen in a very academic conference. So lean into the value proposition. Don't expect the academics to come and write drafts, but expect them to learn from the process Thank you, Colin So let's take maybe a few minutes to go on the content topics like, Jerome You want to say words? No, please want, I topics like Jerome you want to say words no you want to you want to make sure so regarding the recent agenda so as being said by law Laurent, we have been through different, let's say, iteration of our meetings, I mean, at the IETF and during interim meetings on different topics that I recall here. So we have been talking about their artisan, artificial intelligence, digital twin green networking, IBM"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:00",
    "text": "So here, why we put questions? Well, you just also open question to see if you still think that they are topics that are relevant for the group. And of course, authors, if you think, there are other topic relevant for the group So you will have the opportunity to, of course, express your opinion now or if you have time on the mailing list And of course, as we already done this before, and you might have seen on mailing list, or participated, we have this kind of draft document where we put these different topics and try to already establish some let's say work items or directions that could be interesting. So what we will do with Lauren is a bit clean up this document because a lot of a lot of idea try to have a kind of list of bullet points of uh rock item and the ID then will be to have to collect you feedback on these different, let's say, research question and working time and also to have to know the priority because of course many interesting topics but we also to know what could be for you the main priority you would like the group will address and you would like to contribute to because probably you may have opinion about interesting topics but maybe if nobody is willing to has no maybe time to to contribute it's not it might not be a good to present it it So I think I will skip, we add some slides on the server and with networking. Maybe you can directly go to the last yeah last slide. So as you may have seen, a mailing list we share with you a survey on the green networking topic in an MLG because we had a lot of discussion with individually with people and we try to put all together the ideas that people have shared with us and to see if we can reach a consensus of the different ideas so i would say I will share anyways there is a result"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "and mainly least more detailed result about this survey but in general what we see is that we have a kind of consensus of the general topic, I would say, regarding the impact or aspect of what an MNG could work on Of course, adjustment still need to be done And of course, as you know, there was this green buff yesterday with possible future working group on this topic. So it's very important that we separate things between IETF and IETF again here. I think this is kind of a message that we want also to conduct as well here. So for this I'm fine Okay, maybe it's for the last minutes so maybe some views from the chairs and recommend again we need to have clear priorities Of course, we still want to, let's say, well, your topics, but the idea of why we will do on this research phase will be to have clear priorities over the different topics We want also to increase the research focus. Again, you already said that but we want to avoid let's say working group like presentation on the updates of drafts maybe more deeper analysis and contribution, more research paper like presentation this is what we would like to recommend And yes, we would like to have also all the types of outcomes and improve in general the quality of the research combs and outcomes. We already discussed that so we're not into any detail but drafts and archie should not be the only target We I think in our question, you'll probably feel that you'll always ask what is a research question because sometimes we lack really what the research question is going to directly to our let's say engineering consideration that should not be the scope of the group of any research"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "group. One important point because we talk about let's say outreach activities and give attracting people we have been the the group of any research group. One important point because we talk about, let's say, outreach activities and giving attracting people. We have been in the past inviting people or people sometimes join newcomers, join the meeting to present and yeah most of the time for for them it's hard to have kind of follow activities because I think on all we are not enough, maybe interacting, I will say, with them, as you say, they need to learn or do something for us. It's just not like they come here and I think it's related to the comment of Corinne They need to learn some things. They need to have all those feedback from us. And so I think, or we think I would say, many cases when new people comes because maybe they are not, let's say, used to the type of format, to the type of meeting, they are not presented as we maybe are used to and so they don't have enough feedback, and so it does not allow to really, let's say, having new participants to the group And I think this last one, right? Yeah but you're in the end of time So we reach the end of the allocated session time. So as Jerome was mentioning, we have, I mean, we would like to direct you to, I mean, it's not on this one Yeah, so we have a draft of an updated research agenda. You can provide your comments We also send an email to the mailing list so please react to that if you have specific position on priorities, areas in the different domains We heard also today I mean, additional areas or suggestions to cover in parts of activities of the group So this will be also important to capture"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "We would like to, let's say, finalize a bit this updates of the research agenda, especially organized around the research questions to also allow us, I will say, to move on with that and concentrate on the different areas So I encourage you to share your views, especially that And so thanks for your participation and see you around We are here until the end of the week And looking forward to meet you in Dublin, if not before. Thanks everyone. Thank you Thank you I'll be a little time. A little bit more going to be. In fact, we're going to start. Thank you Thank you"
  }
]
