[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "okay right now I it\u0027s ten o\u0027clock I think we can start as soon as possible and they leave some time for Daniel and Daniel II to go back to to the band okay okay good morning everyone so welcome to our see cam session so I think this time it\u0027s a little bit different from the previous ones I mean long here sitting by their you know just asked but you know because you know then nearly I cannot make the chip that the keys deal with us is online so we can have the meeting at huger so this the load a very information I think everyone should you know be familiar with this kind of policy and stuff but I\u0027ve looked like to demand you know one sentence it says that if you are aware that I give the Confucians it\u0027s little bit it\u0027s covered by end patterns that you must you know are disclosed the idea or the fact so if you aren\u0027t you are new to the 90th and I think you should take a look at these information documents and you can get more information from the link so this time we have only one session right now so actually I you can also download it or you know a slight from the link below and you know looking at the agenda so this term we still have very busy agenda so please spend your time efficiently and we could leave more time for open discussions so please follow our agenda so as usual we have their audio and the you know video are recording so I\u0027ll please you know I speak in front of the mic and also a please state your name before are speaking so for the admitting heckle and you know Danny Lee and I we assign the material in the way Vermont if there are some comments from the most participants and for the minute takers I would like to ask you know how men are to take a minute and also it will be a much appreciate if anyone can input something that you hear you know a salute they use a pad that will be great thank you so for the IPR distil Amanda on IPR so I didn\u0027t I hear it\u0027s really are very important and the sensitive you know our stuff so you know actually before a walk include document moving to next step and you today are the church will send out IPR polling and for example our before in the video draft you know becomes a working group document or a book include document goes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:12",
    "text": "to last call the church we are sent out to a car pulling on the list and it requires all the authors and contributors of the job to Toulouse pounder you know I kept holding as soon as possible otherwise it will delay on your draft to move forward so and also our edu do we are always you know I encourage people I say can people are to you know to use the list as much as possible so on the list a we could discuss any technical stuff for example we could discuss some open issues on some jobs and also we can introduce some new jobs and some potential our new work include topics on say camp and not the important mandates that you know actually working group consensus it\u0027s determined on the list rather than you know on the face-to-face meeting so even though here on the face-to-face meeting we get some consensus here we still need to print on the list because you know some people may be cannot make the chip to hear so but they can see something on the list so it\u0027s better to we must you know are brewing the consensus determination on the list so for this I think for the working group as Thetas I think my culture and and nearly he would introduce the left part of the presentation then yeah it\u0027s your turn yeah but strike yeah you can tell me next page anything I can change the page for you okay okay next please okay so since last meeting we have two new RFC\u0027s the Ethernet traffic parameters with the availability information and the young model for our management thanks a lot to the others for the huge huge work that was needed to bring these two documents to the direct city status we are nothing in the editor queue at the moment but we have a lot of drafts actually which are and mature enough to be progressed we we\u0027re we\u0027re discussion to on which ones to to move to to to to move on to to progress now the that the types of documents are probably the next in queue and then we will go on with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:12",
    "text": "the topology models and the tunnel the tunnel models next please status there are three expired expired drugs we need we would like to understand what\u0027s what what\u0027s the plan of the others here actually I\u0027m we\u0027re not seen much much discussion and on the very least about them so I don\u0027t know if there are others in the room that would like to spend some words to to to to on on the status of these drugs that thanks for the video now I can see if someone is going to the mic from an update hello how men speaking regarding the first one flex to create the media channel young this work is related highly with layer 0 types W song tunnels and also the Tita knows generica from the t\u0027s working group so this one has not been taxed so far according to the frequent change of those kind of draft and I think code would be updated to the next iteration once those model are stable okay let\u0027s move on drats on the agenda so is we are going to have quite a package and today a lot of a lot of working group documents will be discussed up it\u0027s nice to see the leaves early one type sir so that we can have the feeling whether these documents are ready or not I have actually requested for the young daughter review for both of them and I\u0027ve seen the documents M comments coming from Tom on on them so we can consider them as last call last call comments and we are ready to start with the appear Pollack and and then the working group last call next please so working group drops not in agenda we received I don\u0027t remember "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:15",
    "text": "why some of them are in a list some others are on the other no changes since since the last meeting on on these two but we can we can discuss them offline that\u0027s that\u0027s not a problem next please next for tight prism I already I turn to the last page which one okay it seems his project well let\u0027s keep it the day they document starter said let\u0027s let\u0027s move on yeah can you see the page yeah yeah let\u0027s let\u0027s move it to the next next one let\u0027s keep the document status ok transportin bie ready for what\u0027s working group La Scala the baton and permit verification import info no technical changes probably it\u0027s another draft that is ready for La Scala so lot of work to do to prepare to prepare these documents for for La Scala in the upcoming weeks or so double internal model this was updated accordingly to the layer 0 type sir so 0 types is a pre requirement but it seems so that the DS dependency isn\u0027t as now being cleared we just need some further alignment to the base model which is obviously the one that it augments the idft from TS front ISA which seems to be now in a pretty good shape but I don\u0027t think it\u0027s in in the editor cue yet next please ok we have the classical periodically Asian coming from study group 15 we we are working on on a reply Scott Scott Mansfield is is working on this there is also another liaison coming from from at C or better a communication coming from at C it was presented on Tuesday on in this is I would say a little bit more relevant to tease than see camper but it was sent to to both it\u0027s basically talking about a new work that he is doing we on the wim the one infrastructure manager they are looking at a CTN as a possible reference for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:21",
    "text": "their worker and that\u0027s why this is probably the the main receiver for T\u0027s for this rafter but all technology specific extensions to atrocity and are done in sick episode and that\u0027s why C CAP is irrelevant as well so this was said I forgot remember sound like three four weeks ago so if you have the chance to look at it that will be helpful next please thank you I can enjoy have a good session yeah let\u0027s move to the next humor presentation yeah get to presentation about him yes all right good morning yeah I have to get good morning everyone my name is dieter Beller I\u0027m one of the editors and co-authors of the draft that is providing augmentations for the topology in order to support optically impairments for WDM networks I\u0027m going to provide an update what we did since the last meeting and doesn\u0027t work properly not a previous one please yeah this one yeah the major activities since i ET f 105 we are actually meeting every week so we have an official C camp call a WebEx meeting every Thursday from 4 to 5 p.m. European time where we try to progress the draft and the major topics that we addressed since the Montreal meeting were we actually discussed the road model so yeah we had some discussions about rodeo architectures and I have a couple of slides I\u0027m presenting those the outcome of the discussion was that we added a section in the draft that describes these architectures and we also discussed how to model the optical impairments imposed by Odom\u0027s so we agreed to start with a simple approach I addressing homogeneous Rotem architectures first and then move to more complex architectures in the future might be and we during that discussion we actually identified three paths that have optical impairments associated with "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:23",
    "text": "them so there is an Express path or path passed through path a net path and a drop part that will be used in order to describe the optical impairments imposed by the Rotom we also had some discussions regarding through our regenerators those discussions have just started we were focusing on the road modeling first and I have a couple of slides that describe the two options for implementing a three-hour regenerator and just move on the ticker is not working the remote control get to the next slide yes thank you so this slide is actually showing a Rotom and it shows on the two WDM lines the line West line is we have the ingress and egress amplifier when a optical or photonic signal passes from line west to line East we already agreed that we are going to model the ingress and egress amplifier as part of the TE Ling so that\u0027s something that\u0027s not part of the Rhoden then the Rotom has some optical channel cross connect functionality and of course it also has some optical transponders where signals are added to the line or what the signals are dropped from the line to the optical transponder so the blue box actually is the physical device and as I have illustrated here in dotted line and the transparent the amplifiers that are there are actually modeled as part of the TE link and the red part is the expressed path or the through path and the the signal coming from the optical transponder here on the on the right it\u0027s been an ad path where the green signal is added to line East and the purple signal coming from line West and that\u0027s dropped to do T on the left-hand side is done at the Trop path so we\u0027ve actually identified these three types of paths and we are going to associate the optical impairments imposed by the road to these three paths there\u0027s still discussion ongoing whether the optical impairments will be associated with the path or whether we are going to split those optical impairments up and add those to the ports at the end of the path so a part has to ends and this is an ongoing discussion we are going to use the upcoming meetings to hopefully conclude the discussion and reach agreement how to model that next slide please okay I think I explained pretty much already that the amplifiers are part of the TE link model and I already talked about the three part we identified and we also agreed on at least the three parameters that are going to be modeled so this is chromatic dispersion polarization mode dispersion and polarization dependent loss those matters are going to be a optical "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:26",
    "text": "impairment permits also for the Rotom there are still discussions on going how to model crosstalk due to the imperfect isolation of the Rotom components and we are also going to study how to model filtering impacts so when the signal passes from a source node to a destination node it crosses multiple rotom\u0027s and each node roadmap applies some some filters and as an effect of passing through the through the rotom\u0027s the the filter actually the filter envelope narrows and we are going to discuss how to model those there there\u0027s no solution available yet but this is something that we have to study there are some papers available and we\u0027re studying those out how that could be modeled next slide please and when we looked at the different Rotom architectures that are out in the field today and there\u0027s also some evolution towards distributed Rotom architectures so this is an example of an integrated Rotom architecture so everything is inside the box the OTS are an integral part of the box and from the T topology perspective the tunnel termination points are actually located on the only optical transponders then next like these rotom\u0027s today also provide ports input boards output boards for remote optical transponders they can be co-located or they can even be a you know remote device so this is shown by this architecture so the optical transponders on the left are integrated optical transponders and on the right side you see that external optical transponders and in that case there is a single channel coloured optical interface to interconnect these external optical transponders with the rhodium device next please now the two architecture shown before our integrated thermal architectures where only the optical transponder could be remote now there\u0027s a tendency on a market to disaggregate the roadman to subdivide or odom and integrate it run them into multiple subsystems this is shown here on this slide so you see on at the top the degrees of the Rotom and you see at the bottom the add/drop blocks of the Rotom and the O T so these can be separate entities which are interconnected using optical fibers and the assumption here is when you have a disaggregated Rotem that the optical domain controller is actually when it provides the te topology to a client it aggregates already the this aggregated Rotem into a an abstracted Rotem and that and for that Rotom the optical "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:26",
    "text": "impairments are actually provided so we assume that that\u0027s a certain abstraction is taking place in the optical domain controller so that we don\u0027t have to actually model all the individual subsystems of a disaggregated Rotem next slide please so anteater I would like to have one could come and so on look at in this picture and this is more like kind of architecture so load em right so where is this kind of picture from its from iqt documentation or from some other place like open northern we had the open road of architecture looks exactly the same [Music] but anyway I think you know from the data plan perspective we should you know follow itu-t recommendation rather than you know foreign open load and all but in general this can be an architect an example of architecture when you don\u0027t have a centralized fiber or a lambda switching inside and this is one of the most used in the industry today and so this is applied that whenever we want to let\u0027s say identify if you\u0027re not composed by different come by different modules and then the the goal is to understand here also whether this model can be in some way described using the Ahmadis or not know the debate is still open as a determination for example whether to assign the optical impairments to ports or to paths or internal part of the node and so we think by by nest ITF we clarify exactly the way we want to to motive internally and as a black box they wrote a function and the reason why we\u0027re actually looking at this kind of architecture is we have to make sure that the model that we are defining covers all different architectures so that\u0027s that\u0027s the reason why we did this study and while we also well and why we also looked at this aggregated Rotem architecture so the model that we\u0027re going to define should actually cover all the different architectures of Rodin\u0027s which are out there in the field or which are currently evolving exactly yeah I agree with that otherwise we risk to have something that covers just 10 20 % of what\u0027s in field exactly we wanted to make something that is useful we should try to cover at least a good portion of the installed base so yeah I mean it\u0027s it\u0027s a pity you this is not a fully standard architecture mandated by ITU but I mean I I have the same feeling this is widely deployed so it\u0027s it\u0027s worth having a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:28",
    "text": "look at it okay thank you hello it\u0027s Debra this is really evolved it looks very good the documents really a bomb and there\u0027s a lot of information I would just warn you to be careful and it this is this came up already now I\u0027m make sure you\u0027re referencing standards were you can reference them because this came up on the yang along module remember I\u0027m with that one I think it was when doing them review for the last calling it folks all said where did you get this from and put something in the descriptors to say references to what standards you are going through out so keep track of it now before it gets at the very end right that you have to go back and add all this and even on these models you can simply you can say something reference I to you one and then just simply say that this is a deployed model or something like that but yeah you know just be say exactly well you know what what this is so that people know that it\u0027s not and it\u0027s not I to you and if that way folks can look at it and say well you know this this is not complying or something but it\u0027s something different if it\u0027s just functionally an abstraction that helps you to to define the parameters but it doesn\u0027t actually bb-8 but make sure you\u0027re referencing I to standards I didn\u0027t see any references to the ITU standards like as you go through it you enjoy at the end with the informative references but not so much as you go through it and then just while we\u0027re talking about it and make sure I think as this is getting very developed now you should layers on to ITU it\u0027s time to lay its on and they have the meeting it\u0027s like the third or fourth week of January so you know try to get it a kind of clean version and just get it they\u0027re like the first week of January or something like that save time to review and they had sent us back something on the OTS I so I assume you guys now updated online with that right that lays on I mean we discussed that the previous meeting also that this document is also related to the newer ITT recommendation G 807 and we we submitted ap last call comments which are currently on the resolution we discuss that briefly also yesterday during that meeting that we had among the contributors and co-authors of the draft and we\u0027ll have to see how that ap last call comments will be resolved or what do we need to I think have some further liaisons or interaction with the iqt I think it\u0027s important now before you leis on add those references to where you turn for the standards and clearly say why you chose you know you enhance models to like for example for this and why you did it it\u0027s that they can read it and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:29",
    "text": "understand otherwise they\u0027re just going to send it back to us and say exactly it\u0027s white I said this is you know not compliant honey honey and a little bit cat we need to be a little bit careful when we turn to the itu-t because 807 is different to with the data plane it it also means a general architecture and this is architecture in compliance so we cite UT data planning so we may need to have two groups off you actually have to like to the mandala so adding the calendar you know loading architecture this job that should not only reference to Jesus 807 but also you know R 0 6 7 2 3 6 7 2 this this documentation really talks about architecture for the Rhoden but actually this job didn\u0027t the reference to this documentation so absolute up check you know I think I agree I think we have to agree we have to add some more references to the IQ to your recommendations and that\u0027s that\u0027s a good point here or take that slightly okay we also looked at three are read generators and we actually discussed through realizations of three or agender original Raiders one is shown on this slide this is the what is called the back-to-back configuration of 2 OTS that means that the client parts of the OTS are used to interconnect 2 OTS that forum that we are a generator next slide please and there is another implementation possible where you actually use sorry little question yeah did the tree regenerator is considered just within the context of a Rotom yes they could they could I mean as far as they remember we could we can have regenerators or so without a rhythm right okay in the photon country yes that\u0027s that\u0027s true but again I said initially I think we just started looking at three our generators and these are just two possibilities of where the optical transponders in a rhodium are actually used as a three origin right or there are other architectures or my question is whether the road they regenerate or is tightly coupled with the presence of a Rotom in the network I don\u0027t think so this is probably something that we have to discuss our assumption so far input Bethenny but yeah really speaking in general if you have a regenerator based on lambda you need a Rotom because you are usually under spectral and damage select element want to the region to regenerate in general so that that\u0027s why we combine that a regenerator to the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:29",
    "text": "road market as but in any case is either is a plasma so I don\u0027t you know I mean I I would like not to live out the possibility to cover a lot of legacy stuff where regenerators are used in in the nor Odum notes there should be still some some of them in field right in this case you don\u0027t have editor to the M lines or you just every generator every hour generator that is working on a single channel that\u0027s it one micron I bet one channel margin yes exactly exactly okay we can call it Oh sooty stuff I don\u0027t know I don\u0027t have the feeling other what\u0027s the percentage of those type of nodes in the network clips if it\u0027s maybe I think it\u0027s very very low probably it\u0027s not worth trying to cover it if there are phasma it\u0027s probably trying to model them I think this rigid this kind of regenerator were very used in SONET SDH networks yes now we TWM usually you have multiple lambdas in a single file can it but really it\u0027s not worth it you can leave it out okay thank you thank you thanks like this okay what are the major changes on the draft on the draft with respect to the previous version so we actually edit some text and figures describing these rolling architectures which I just presented and the yang model in the draft is still unchanged because what we need to do first is we need to agreement about the optical interim parameters which we\u0027re still discussing and once that is there is agreement among the or about the optical impairment parameters we will then look at the yang model and we will try to figure out where the augmentation should occur and should be done next slide please we\u0027re using a github currently we are using an individual account and github and we had some discussions between the previous meeting and this meeting whether we should create a SECAM working group organization github account this is the proposal there is some internet draft available that describes that how to set up such an account I think it makes sense to put all the related yang models on it on that on that github so that\u0027s the teehee topology young model with the optical impairments then there\u0027s that that\u0027s using layer 0 types there\u0027s layer 1 types which is a working group which has a working group status so the proposal or the suggestion here is that we should actually create such an see can perk you group account and github where we put all the all the material together and that helps us also to keep "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:32",
    "text": "the material pretty much aligned yeah Toki talking about this we we discussed about to the possibility to ever see camp github we we are happy to do that to do that to put it in place actually I read the draft talking about organization get upset it seems so that sooner or later we will have in data tracker the possibility to create to create one I\u0027ve not yet seen it so I don\u0027t know what\u0027s the timing for the implementation of such such tool from from data tracker if if you believe that that we should have it sooner probably what we can do is to create it and then I\u0027ve seen that there is also procedure to move the an existing organization Geeta but - I let me say ITF controller so we we can create it as independently and move it later that\u0027s something that you can and that\u0027s exactly what we\u0027re suggesting so we can take that offline and ok create it yeah next slide please we have a number of open issues which are also listed on github this is just a screenshot from our open issues list on on github like slide please next steps so what what are the next steps we want to conclude now the discussions that are still ongoing regarding the modeling of cross talk in rodents that lead to an degradation of the optical signal due to and that\u0027s gonna be modeled as an always an hour degradation as I said we need to identify the te nodes node entities the containers in the tea topology yang model that are suitable for the optical impairment augmentations so there we have to take care about scalability because we looked at the connectivity matrix initially but the current status of the discussion is that probably that\u0027s not suitable and we will probably have to find another place or a definition of how to model the optical impairments we had some discussion yesterday during this the the meeting on this specific topic and then we also have to study what the filtering impacts are on signal quality on how to model those we will also have to address then the three our generators which we just briefly discussed in one of our calls and of course we have to address the other open issues listed on github next slide please and that was it further discuss comments questions so I think you already spend the twenty five twenty five minutes [Laughter] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:42",
    "text": "[Music] good morning I\u0027m sorry ability speaking good Bonnie everybody chowder nearly I\u0027m going to make an update about the layer one types and route en topology young model so they this is the main content of fire IDF layer one types they the basic point is that the intention is that to use the definition of different structure audio type and client signal for all the related document that is OTN topology and Tunnel and ITF layer 1 GSM module so the basic changes of in the layer 1 types its that ok we check they are FCAT 4:07 yung gud line and and basically the important point is that we added a section in which we describe the usage of the different grouping in particularly we also better define the relationship between TPN and the root the tributary port number and timeslot that and so defining what is the OT n label that is defined in the drafts that usually represent how the tributary port is assign how the relationship between the tributary port number and what is the tributaries lot on the server that is assigned to carry that this is well described in Ursus at 71 31 and we reference a data in the document and basically we rename a few of the groupings name to fit better with the OT n term so basically they will define the TN label restriction and without Yin level ranging and TN link label at the end pot labeled both with the OT n label start and OT n label hope and we try to define how to use that unfortunately at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:43",
    "text": "the moment in the test there is some miss miss aligning with a with the name so we need to adjust that the basic explanation is there okay then we added the leaf list for audio list type to define which audio type can be supported or not in the label range if it is empty del the range means that everyone every audio type is supported we are also removed in the signal do you see n because is not a switching type and okay we we have we changed the range of TPN and tributaries lot from one to four hundred four thousand ninety five and we add back the coding function that is defining an EF assist III for the usage that is used in layer one GSM so the next step of the draft is okay it\u0027s done the alignment with the I TFT types and topology and the tunnel and the layer one GSM but is still open the alignment with layer zero type in particularly the grouping names that is the funny ITF layer zero is still the reporting the term restoration we would like to align both the types with the correct name our intention is to request the working group last cold and young daughter review okay so this is instead a update for ot anthropology there is a I just we just put as a reference the content busy content of the young tree but there is no real modification of that so there is no changing test but the model has been changed reformatting the tree to satisfy the problem of line line restriction and has been armed own eyes with layer one types and in particular have been added duty any label step and set default at 140 M for next step about the topology "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:45",
    "text": "we request for working group last tool and dr. review together with layer 1 types and Daniele already mentioned that and ok the this is the reference for the to model to check that\u0027s before any comment reported Cisco is it the layer 1 x in layer 0 it touches if you review together of those two models the yang dr. review sorry which model do you are superior together for yang dr. v Valeo 1 we are the chest already send the time to the young dr. love you layer 1 types so we so which one you saying together with layer 1 types what\u0027s that refer to that refer to the OTN topology module or layer 0 times no let me explain this for me Holly the layer 1 types is fundamental identity in Ocean Technology and as well the next one in topology is highly dependent now that they are 1 types ok so that\u0027s why we\u0027re good now because there is that the relationship so layer one types is a is common is used by the the trim year the progress so far is the chairs has sent the two documents layer one types and to the other layer zero types together for your young daughter review because of their correspondence at different switching layer so so there would be also a layer zero topology like w.zahn topology singing to you as well okay next so thanks for you that you help us to have a few minutes back okay don\u0027t good morning okay this huh men speaking and I\u0027m going to present the two documents a actually this is the layer they were correspondence to the previous presentation one is on layers there were types and the other is on with this song young which is the double anthropology oh it works great so we have the similar content as the previous presentation so firstly we focus on what is motor relationship and the first document we are present in presenting includes the Moldy ITF layer 0 types which is the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:48",
    "text": "fundamental identities to be incorporated in post poverty and Hinault\u0027s so here and from this table we also indicate what kind of types we have been included for layer 0 because there are multiple modules would rely on the layer 0 types so currently we have included as a basic identity is used would be useful for DWDM CWDM and the flask great so what we have not included so far would be somehow like the impairment present and also the in face another draft so okay so here we gives a detailed list of what kind of types we include include know that were cleanser allocation combination bandwidth channel spacing in fact so the details are listed here and also in the module of course so the changes from last version okay this is actually the young doctor has already provide one iteration of review and we have some editorial change like that will already change and we also change our central frequency as a type type def into the new type with together the description and the one issue marked as read here has not been changed so far this is how many digits after fraction we should cap keep for both gigahertz and the terahertz so basically we a proposal would be we keep one digit 4 Giga and the 40 DS for key Hertz and the example would be here like we consider the thing for s 119 3.1 terahertz and this would be easier to understand and the read so the one here is has some kind of ambiguity and would like to be changed and we would like to raise this point to the working group to make agreement and then we feed back to young doctors and we\u0027re lucky the young doctor is here today so yeah the next we\u0027ll step including a few steps the first group of issue okay let me finish very severely so the group name change from the OTN modos also impact the corresponding groupings here so we are proposing three different the cooking name changed as follow and that\u0027s how the open issue we have notified and we believe after "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:49",
    "text": "today\u0027s discussion we can provide one more update and then proceeds those portions to you have to reveal a dot okay sorry Greg mercy CT if you can row previous slide because and so we\u0027re you plan to have fractions because here you have in 16 and within 16 you cannot have fractions you need to have the other in 16 would not allow you to have fractions right here is the type that is under it\u0027s 16 which is DW t + - n and we are using the kind of I cannot remember the detail name but which stands for the nominal frequency and on the frequency is the numerical value of the numerical value of the frequency on the spectrum and this is can be the central band would be one ninety three point one terahertz with channel spacing you early twelve point five right but you basically you can have a union of two decimals and then four gigahertz you have a digit one and four terahertz you can have digit 4 and then union of these two types em and then integers certainly right Amira\u0027s thought we and you early married the by gigahertz and the other the other is a nominal central frequency which is you early by terahertz okay I don\u0027t think that because integer is that an integer it\u0027s not a float just to clarify here not on the the frequency is one ninety three point one period and second either you use N and M values at this pointer integer or you decide to use frequency and in this case should have five digits after the comma so the fraction is five you prefer five between forever five digit because you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:50",
    "text": "want to enter the six nine value of two here we are talking about frequency the frequency is six point twenty five gigahertz okay 600 and 25 okay you cheat Plus 3 is 5 then can we say okay to offered bigger and the five for Tara now five for Tara into 44 Giga so six what is false come on this now it depends no you\u0027re talking about egads is five point six point twenty five gigahertz so you have to teach ouvea - Shaniqua translating Tara is five digits right okay twenty-five either was it just to try to Greg we have to type on these are two types one type is when you want to represent the center frequencies not width of the filter is an integer if you want to represent something like the senior or the acai Center frequency then it\u0027s the Terra a surrogate so are two different types of so some I also have uncommon so it seems there are two types of units so can we just use one one unit for example or we just use only a dick Hertz rather than use G cards sometimes we use two coats we used our tech hots 10 hots yeah it depends sometimes is more readable to have terror sometimes worried about 12 G guards so I don\u0027t know we can look at you only if you only want to have one we would slightly prefer to gigahertz yes yeah but you used to have a very big number in front of the right the comment that\u0027s and as difficult to read when you look at JSON yeah yeah Teterboro speaking I mean this actually concerns me a little bit because we also had some discussions when we discussed the carrier frequencies for the TE topology model for the optical impairments and there we agreed that we are going to use a certain number of digits I don\u0027t remember whether it was six or something like that but you can look it up and so the question is really how do we get alignment for the layer zero types across different yang modes that are using this this type definitions so the gentleman stand behind you should feel good also the robot is going back to York what you made about it sometimes more readable to choose different units effectively I think generally and yang be better to choose one and then do that conversion on your client side I appreciate the raw Jason coming through and the protocols you have a longer number any GUI or something similar off see correct it - too easy units yes but then it\u0027s less work we want to compare those values between different places so mostly if you use different units "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:50",
    "text": "different places you putting extra work in convert them more like that or is it that case so I probably suggest unless it doesn\u0027t make sense to try and keep in one in terms of trying to get commonality I think it\u0027s just reviewing those modules together the title address and making sure they\u0027re consistent which I\u0027ll try and do so I\u0027ll review them the same time but but you\u0027re writing the same different sentence writing much what\u0027s opportune you say I don\u0027t know exactly how it\u0027s being used so it\u0027s hard to judge so if you your models naturally have different ones that it might make sense but if it\u0027s a value that you might be using in multiple places I would try and keep it in the same units and I\u0027d probably go I don\u0027t know where the gigahertz with terahertz makes more sense the only other comment I\u0027d make is it seems like the size of these channels getting swore over time so you might a factor that any that\u0027s the case I had so the number of digits you might need will increase over time so it\u0027s fact that in Greg muskie as a prime Mr Hammond look so yes if you want to have a digits decimal digits you use decimal type and then you say fraction digits if I understood the comment is saying don\u0027t differentiate the gigahertz and terahertz just make convert to one and express it with a number it\u0027s so so much simpler so we have upgrade all using only kilohertz I believe yes and then you can specify you can have for example decimal 64 decimal 32 and then five fraction digits for Kika we don\u0027t need as much as five digits okay then to make because because if you if you put here one you probably need to okay good yes but please make sure to be proof a bit because after 6.25 there is a three point of 123 and that\u0027s why I mention something three digits is the next of it and determine again there\u0027s one more comment from my side we discussed yesterday briefly in the in the Innosight meeting if this is going to move to working group group last call that\u0027s going to be frozen so and other work is still work in progress and we may actually have to define additional types for example for the tea topologies the question is do we have then to create a new revision of tea layer zero types for example so this is something that we we should better understand how the process works yes great yeah great so I sorry for my "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "voice etcetera from my way discussing some couple of motivated to the transfer class in yet so one is about the history working group document on the client signal model okay so the status of the worker after it was not presented in the last meeting I was presenting him 104 so the document has been adopted as a working group document in May we didn\u0027t do major changes we don\u0027t do any change to the text after the adoption but we did some changes to the madala we have added for example the new service types which they are intended to provide all these all the types that can be used for describing the client seniors any particular respect a lot of new types coming up from the new work they will result later on performance monitoring the door am the next one and we have added in the trance for a transport service we have added a new container to configure the protection or restoration in case you want to do detection resolution in decline layer rather than in the server layer especially if you want to do a looming and we have added a span a little bit the way you can configure the underlying tunnel that carries the senior the distinguishing between the case where that kinda line telling is an Internet tunnel where or is nutrient and arose an NP STP tunnel reason is that it mainly because MP has to be for example as to cover take care of also absolute wire and absolute while switching that\u0027s one and we have a data so transparent client basically adding a direction attribute that allows the configuring unidirectional and bi-directional a services next one so would we have a set of open issues all of them are tracking into an individual github area and we the intention the next steps are to harmonize particularly mothers with other model eyes performers only to negatory Emma and we are thinking to a standard issue on information we got some feedbacks about people wants to know whether the assess link is an electrical or an optical interface or what is the performance that you want to monitor on this type of signal so we think the document is still open and requires more work before going to working group Luscombe so you get a lot of comments and not only have already a lot of open sure we are getting busy me feedback from the from the operators who are starting to use it that\u0027s one the next topic is a vision individual draft is about the ethernet that he topology we presented is drafting the last meeting and this draft is basically taking care to off two items one item is to discover the assess links in case of Ethernet services and the second item is to provide it a topology in case you want to set up eaten at LSP that\u0027s one so we didn\u0027t make any major changes after that 105 we just follow aligned with the guyline model guidance in RFC eight four zero seven and we have a harmonized with the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:04",
    "text": "other er modules but no other changes the only point this document has been used by the transporter VI design team to mainly for discovery access links we discourage them to discover some back-end which has been fixed yesterday or the day before today and we next one basically within this document is really for being adopted as a working group Documenta yeah thank you any comment feedback especially under any comments no comments so so if then there are no comments I would like to test at the temperature so um you know for the next step you are asking for the WLAN right so uh I think actually this job had been presented for many times so at the first question and how many people have Rarity\u0027s jobs a very many people okay so how many people think that this draft is ready for on top the adoption a pretty good number so how many people don\u0027t support tab the adoption okay none so our let\u0027s take to the list okay thank you thank you okay good morning to discovery Francisco okay so here we have to to drive to draft two percent one regarding the LMP that extended the lmp2 dated a podium interfaces and then this is use to determine and exchange information between the DWDM transponder and the network rodman so this is extending the RFC 4209 and then supporting most or the the optical name in the optical impairment and the characteristic of the W interface defined by activity in the past has been done a liaison with that UT and then we got some recommendation so we extend what is the application identifier adding the output power current current input power and the input power range is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:10",
    "text": "this document is a working document since March we didn\u0027t do any presentation at ATF 105 and there is a this presentation today the modification to the document actually are some cosmetics but the most part of the modification is related to the use cases that I really have to encourage to read this this draft color just DWDM and legacy interfaces so two point five 10 40 and 100 Iike does not support all the information related to the Flex patron for example where those information are reporting in a individual contributor draft that is a second flex interfacial MP now also considering the discussion is going is is in processing iqt about those new parameters we we might decide that either - let\u0027s say close this draft and egg and then go in the rascal or keep this draft open include the information related to the sson and drop the individual contribution contributor draft that is I think is a decision that I would like to ask to their am working group I\u0027m glad to see the slides here saying and our RMP is not for configuration we agree on that but what you added as a use case two new sections three points three for configuration and a straight point for for some kind of operation or maintenance so why we need to describe this use KCI RMP document let\u0027s say did they fought for the maintenance is actually helpful to share information between the roadman network and in case the client network when the client network is reportedly debris or interfaces because those two may have different controllers so share information may help the controller\u0027s to understand what\u0027s going on between neighbors is configuration again three point three the configuration is is not to configure is LMP doesn\u0027t configure anything just a share information "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:11",
    "text": "between the two and this is a let\u0027s say statement for the LNT definition okay then the other draft [Music] the error that we have represent today is again related today interface DWM interface parameters this draft is supporting the definition of the determinant arrest parameters extending or following the other two draft which is w strong in impermeable addition info and w son parent validation and code plus RFC 6566 this model the Yamada\u0027s extended a ITF interface model and then is a parallel document to the optical implement topology and we\u0027re in this in this case in this draft we describe explicitly the interface parameters another question here is whether to let\u0027s say match the two documents they are they are working in parallel no and that they are complementary we decided to keep them as a parallel project in the meeting we got in I think in Prague but again the team is a leader too to keep let\u0027s say any decision from the topology on Modest team into this again no let\u0027s say no modification has been done since last version just he cosmetics and let\u0027s say editorial improvement today as I said we are working for the last call in sense that we are not asking the last call today but we\u0027ll follow the impairment apology young progress so when that will be the time we last telesco that\u0027s it again last but not least we need to keep in line any modification than in I duty because this is a quite a hot topic Thanks so any comments just my comment dealer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:13",
    "text": "speaking this this yang mod will also use layer 0 types or this doesn\u0027t it use it yeah that\u0027s a good question later so we need to understand whether the l0 type will be referenced to from this document or we augment the ITF interface models I need to understand together how to to deal with this because either we referenced the l0 type but in this case we have to add some types related to the today interface over there or and I don\u0027t know we extend that we ought meant the ITF interface type plus the DW we need to understand I think we should discuss offline on this deter I believe I believe that you should also use layer types for the interface yeah model preferably but that\u0027s a 0 type of standard a ikf interface model it\u0027ll be K I don\u0027t think you need to know you can extend the ATF interface model in your draft but you can you use Li as your type to reuse the same attributes and groupings between optical impairments and so you can have a grouping in the layers you know types and then you can the optical power we can say we can use this grouping problem and a topology and your draft you can use the same group it augmented the interface ok as soon as we avoid any duplication so that\u0027s that yeah thank you there you can get a much better alignment among different yeah model so I mean this is this all the the previous of the having the type definitions and groupings defined in the in a separate yang no no that\u0027s ok that\u0027s ok do you know on Kimberly I have one question fatty to speak and so I regarding the LMP on draft I saw the news on the use case were taken from the framework document right so so I assumed that the use case in the framework document will be deleted deleted despite later to be honest I don\u0027t know what will be the fate of the framework so we got some comments or suggestions no document yes I think I think that the frame would now is stuck a little for the last call and the the author we discuss a little bit among the others and we don\u0027t know what what do what to do and what it what would be the next step ok maybe one approach either just leave the frame lock adds idiots and then we we can move over that we can just focus on the solution channel the the very worst case could be that frame would be dropped okay okay thank you okay next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:35",
    "text": "monie monie yeah this is fun young from Hawaii and Before we jump to the problems that much of the flexi interface management I would like to call you back to work that have been done from last two years since I ETF 1998 please next step okay and what is flexi and flexi provide variety of the Makah metrics that could be more flexible than the existing is not fire rate and why we have this suplex introduced to besides the traditional is that three reasons first from the perspective of the after operators new services requires the flexible bandwidth granularity not element to the fixed by weight like 10 g or 40 or 100 etc and second there is a mismatch of the rate development between the is not and also the transport and transport network they say should be decoupled and maybe find a better way for the it\u0027s not for the transport network to fully utilize the huge bandwidth of the is not pot and last but not least on one hand they are decoupled so the only I had on the other hand they must be a simple and efficient mapping madam provided okay here are two figures and I assume that everyone is familiar with the first one above and the second figure is the management architecture of the flexi interface we have two nodes here and the nose could be the routers or the audio equipment and inside of the rule of the node there is a element management function and also the data plane and there are not conf not come for rest comfort sessions between the SDN controller and the EMF for the data plane that we are so mated it should be the flexi shame here the the llamado i we talked about i want to clarify that it is the southbound yamamoto from the from the view of the controller here i\u0027m not going to give you the every detail of the flexi because that is not a scope of this presentation and i just i just want to give the names that there is a flexi fie and flexi group and also the flexi client and also the more information defined in the flexi over had frame that is the calendar configuration a and B and also the calendar configuration others and the requests and the club "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:36",
    "text": "acknowledgement acknowledge of the calendar switch okay and regarding to regarding the problem statement the draft is aiming to provide to illustrate the fact that should be considered when you work on the more young modeling and also the the last line of each problem statement and for information the last line of each of each problem statement in the blue font are the reference reference options that you may check in advance because my colleague later will give you more and information in the following presentation so the first problem statement is to provide a service function of the various metrics that\u0027s the basic function of the Flex II and the second one is to meet the requirements of the of the transport network mapping scenarios the oh I have taxi implementation agreement defines the three scenarios including the flexi am I unaware and flexi in termination of flexi aware scenarios the difference of these scenarios are the how to utilize the calendar slots so similar similarity that similarly that how to manage anind in the young model should be the ones should be the key question for us third one is how to config the flexi and the of\u0027em mentions the there is a static master slave and ostian ways to configure the flex ii but there\u0027s no accurate definitions of them and also it is it is sad there it is not limited to this rate as in to these three configurations configuration ways so so I that it is so how to provide a generic llamado could be how to provide a young generic young model easier to be extended to provide more to provide further configuration way that is the the important or the key question that first here and the fourth problem statement is to as we introduced previously that there is planter calendar configuration a and B are also the signaling of signal information including the CCC RCA we think that we should ask that if they are the they are built it should they belong to the work of the date plan or are they necessarily "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:38",
    "text": "that should be exploded to the to the controller said that\u0027s the question next one is after we finishing the the management of of one flexi client it is it it just intuitive way to think about the second step to manage the multiple flexi client from the perspective of the perspective view of the of the operators and the last way to support the bi-directional traffic or not so far out the of the flexi links are bad reaction nodes and symmetric links that with the same configuration on both end it seems that the unidirectional unidirectional parameters tx/rx is not so necessary and somehow is duplicated there so I think that\u0027s that\u0027s another important important aspect that we should consider and that\u0027s it that\u0027s all thank you and I want and all the views and comments are welcome but I am I\u0027d appreciate if you can propose we can hold this comments a little bit after the following presentation because you may have a lot of questions to this discuss the details of the tracks II but actually the following presentation does give you more details may you may find the answers to their so yeah so Chile are you okay to have more discussion after this Ray Upton yeah it\u0027s no problem they are and to discuss that relate to the details of the Plaxico please go back to the previous slide okay this is about a negotiation protocol for my understanding I think I wish to be careful not to event any new technology huh Francie it\u0027s because I think for this protocol I can\u0027t find any definition if flagship it plan so then so then the soul for - turning if we define faithful and protocol here it\u0027s about not mechanics yes I\u0027m sorry okay yeah I think that yeah we have the we have the the same set that date playing the the elements from the date plan should not be included here so I\u0027m sorry I don\u0027t see the difference John from how we actually are we don\u0027t introduce any new particle here it\u0027s just really using that data plan protocol defined by the Oh F yeah I I think you make yeah maybe you misunderstood the the I I say it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:38",
    "text": "negotiation portico there\u0027s an actually no protocol there yeah you can find the details in the draft and also maybe in the clear yeah I\u0027m a project apologize Brooklyn I don\u0027t call on the next slide actually on these ps5 so you\u0027ve got a comment there about using our our pcs to control adding or removing clients but I would naturally expect that to be just regular configuration declarative configuration so I I would think using our PCP is probably not right because you want to like Reena if you reboot the router or the device you expect to come back with the same configuration before whereas an RFP see would be naturally more ephemeral and you lose that state yeah okay actually obviously this this part is not included in the draft yeah yeah I think that yeah I understand the question please you know speak by sequence not just a champion no no let\u0027s stay understand the pros and the tongues and to clarify on his question in there yeah yeah and actually it\u0027s not quite mature to bring the the RPC here because it is not included in the draft yeah I think that\u0027s the next step that we will consider to this part maybe we can discuss of lying that more about this part because actually we haven\u0027t looked details of this power yeah thank you yeah I have a quick question I just noted that the OIF implementation agreement for flex étude it always listed as an informative reference shouldn\u0027t that be a normative reference I\u0027m not quite sure okay anyway I think we are running time so I would like to count questions and we can have what discussion after you know our presentations okay no later yeah young black state for you well good morning everyone sister Yong Yong Yong from Maui oh so Tauranga Hawaii Kona mobile and fiber home this is a an updated version the opportunity were document he\u0027s a how to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:38",
    "text": "configure the fleet group as a network interface how to configure the files and the clients in this group policy group and how to Maps is a slow us secondly we need to support the fletc estate has a retrieval includes order group files and declines the surveys to put up the interface monument in both a skiing and an amateur we lost lee but it\u0027s not a risky important leader supporter backwards compatible with all versions over for the te this from a user point of view the first set of lengths can be depicted as shown we have a sum of little clans and the own new one and another tool the same setup whereas philosophy clans hug should be used and that between that who knows a flirty group which are consider multiple flexi files and the physician can map the slow first year\u0027s loss request from the clients into the actual files in the teaser for the group so it\u0027s quite a simple diagram and we can also see sim Francis figure first year slot is a basic entire unit for both our client and the file since the abstraction of the first-year monument adapted from the last figure on the right we have a parent of felicity group as an interface and we have a multiple Felicia client as a sub interface and also a summer philosophize under yeah so both 30 group and definite even clients can be modeled as a networking interface and if 50 clients can be added durability or configured with some years laws so it\u0027s a very flexible architecture as a way we can you use idea for interface defined in the FCAT 3 3 this diagram shows Yong Chi as you can see the updates are in the red color we are the supporter of a Felicity content negotiation protocol it\u0027s just their flag we went along then we can use "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:40",
    "text": "overheard channel to support the dynamic calendars region defined in the ORF this area curve of the last term meeting in the second group people think that Sahara is the right place to start the work on Philippi young but we need to check definitely work done in other skills such as the itu-t sg-15 we also need to look into other idea for young wanted to work funding we need to give more analysis on the pros and cons of the existing two young modules first I\u0027d like to introduce in the other sto Fattah in July Oh F published the fullest year total one moment efficient agreement which asks the support of a 50 G Phi and in September Durand who a 14-hour sg-15 in a meeting in Italy in cousin back as a agreement with regard to she taught her 8023 about first year and management information from some of our flexi information need not to be a visible in the external management control interface such as of the SCC a and the c CB c CCR and the CA fun days yeah their peers and experts political configuration should be sorted to the same Vario that\u0027s the agreement in the adhered he and as a nursery is a similar work in the other industries such as a in the ITF and I already defends a lack interface that\u0027s actually a two to three ad lack in our system to 24 we also found three created scissors of a young interface with a pong did evening\u0027s so you know you have 25 pages show up information ie tier for actual year and the om configure all of them have a such a fun drink young modules all modeled as a single interface I will not skip some yeah this why to the reason why we augment has a fleshie from the interface we because we have a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:41",
    "text": "mini advantage we will use some styles to some attributes so the same young father name in style address in the second is why we usually not a model Felicity instance first era isn\u0027t a number can be inferred from a file number and the secondary instances just the internal since the usage it\u0027s not needed in the management plan finally it\u0027s a certain the backwater comparable away see in Google stay in the module this is a CCC RC a since I think or other representative in the acuity agree so I work another to discuss it in more detail about CC a and not C CB actually yeah oh I introduced CCA and necessity Magnuson just for the Hilly\u0027s client configuration one one the Condor is used for active and another used for backup if we were right into the active then all the series will be impacted and the loss of our traffic will be appear cause of all these clients so that\u0027s the reason we cannot use the exposure both CCA and CCB to the external interfaces it\u0027s a bad retinal I think we have an agreement there how to models as not least we use them by as a container for the throttle East it\u0027s more compatible it\u0027s easier to fund unused or available slots in a particular app I compared with the other two options family we compare that with two different modules the first column is a job that young and that\u0027s a second village of the sha\u0027ban as you can see as there are plenty our differences and we believe I don\u0027t want to cover the details one by one but a people can see there are lots of abstractions in the first job but all the details are supposedly in the second one but we can fund them quite a few our advantage it was easier details are shown to the manager or the operators so the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:53",
    "text": "page is some other differences the first job is a fourth year in hierarchy flatten the simple the second wise 70s our Chi relative in the complex the first kids are only modern service laws we don\u0027t need adapt and ways to be provided for the second boosts are provided but how to provide these pathways varios consistently across every application that will be a challenge since if we don\u0027t agree we are actually bandwidth first loss that\u0027s a problem under there that is a only local parameter tok included without any remote have Phi\u0027s be configured for the second both other things are needed so it\u0027s a more complex the first support status retrieval well there is no such support in second so I have one quick comment so I think this comparison table it\u0027s really very good it seems that you did a very good job but what are you in common for this two jobs nothing in common or so huge the difference between these two jobs right what adds conclusion yeah yeah it\u0027s a target is money to the fatigue rules as its assumed but a pathology the further a lot okay okay thank you yes but the goal is a reaching a consensus so just focusing on these thing is much better than the other is is not helping a tutu to put to progress the work I would rather focus on synergies and to move on and not rather on differences and comment and another thing that this is III see enough meat in each row of the table to have a deeper discussion on the mailing list I I would suggest not to be silent between one meeting and the other and then present 25 slides of of content and minutes but rather take the three months between one meeting and the other attitude to better discuss on the mini list each each topic here that could help a lot at the next meeting it whether to work on on commonalities rather than differences Thank You Tanya yeah moment I I see it very very difficult to to adopt one one draft or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:55",
    "text": "the other just saying that is his work is better this work is is worse okay thank you actually we do sit together to have a conversation with with other authors but ever since we have very different opinions on how to progresses this work that\u0027s the reason we brought all that different opinions on the table so that our every day we can have a yeah I\u0027m saying it\u0027s the wrong table the right table is the mailing list is not the ten mean it\u0027s at at the at the meeting yeah that\u0027s a good listener we will discuss more on the details on the Middle East thank you okay okay if if you wanted to arrange periodical periodical meetings like we are doing for microwave like we are doing it for optical impairments just ask us and we will be happy to arrange them for you thanks okay Gregory city you mentioned that there are some mechanisms in your model that support dynamic SWAT switching Oh F mmm we just are in the world and what what\u0027s the scope of this switching is a switching end-to-end or switching within an link because I don\u0027t understand what\u0027s the solution within the link from one node to another it\u0027s a link but it\u0027s also a shinto shin it\u0027s the same no no okay switching you mean the switching as an update or switching that you\u0027re do switching from one thing to another no it\u0027s hardly a switching from one current a computation to another kind of communication I think but it\u0027s not switching its its reconfiguration maybe a someone new concept but okay measure the new concept there is a configuration and there is a switching and we understand certain things with that switching you do switching quake in TDM on the box right and that\u0027s the switching you do switching between different links and itu told us in their liaison not to do switching ok so if you mean it by configuration then code configuration dynamic configuration so but you say that you want to use some channel to communicate switching to me it sounds like you do switching between links switching is a concept in there oh I F "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:57",
    "text": "no we thing no Candace recently no no of line no problem we can better console so you\u0027re aware of ITU lays and not to do switching yeah so I know what I mean I Tod they told everybody don\u0027t do switching between links okay correct I think thank thank you very much I think we got your points we can discussion on the list okay for the nectar and chili hi everyone this is chilly okay I also same topic about the flesh ye yeah and some analysis okay I\u0027m sorry okay okay some updates okay and the comments received I will try to make this brief so still time and updates currently I sink away there\u0027s some update that\u0027s what people are using at the fight so we just at this this is the operating current a draft and there\u0027s an follow the company in traffic analysis draft laser was updated according the way to happiness landing the modeling job it\u0027s just to help understand it and the next we also received some comments the food that is a battle weather for us in instance and should be modeled or not what you think we did think about this and which I will give you some case in point it\u0027s just for discussing the first one I said okay look at the flashy overhaul its replace the fine number with the instance number right now so this is the first time it is another second one okay in a duty document it\u0027s about a comparison for exactly the value and I expected very okay that\u0027s a look at has a writer finger it\u0027s another comparison it\u0027s a bass sound for a see incidents level so we think we should I learn with them this is the case under the next we gave some analysis that maybe sometime you don\u0027t consider for that incident may pour in some trouble okay okay for example in static a configuration mode if one of the flooding is okay there may be multiple lying in one device if one of the flashy instance of fails to be in to be interviewed correctly it will be replaced with represented signal is there were no more signal if the equipment is configured to only verify at a fair level sometime they cannot be typed fought over that instant it\u0027s not about "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:58",
    "text": "the extension twirl the appliance it\u0027s also try to verify whether it\u0027s correct or whether the configuration is a correct from the sauce to a setting and the next another case in point a server that I have available to us it\u0027s a used especially for SEO where trans transport mode here we gave one example for example 150 Giga commanded the follow is it transmitted over one or two upon the ethernet 205 with six available five gigs loss in the first of all se incidence and the fall in the sector philosophy incidence on purpose so I think just based on this use case for the model is to be able to such a distribute available slots over different e instance and this is okay the next one is another comment we received whether the tab calendar configuration A or B is needed an answer from mater with a better to write it because that way can\u0027t per call the possibility with the house of device can be implemented sometimes you just use some before configuration sometimes there may be some flexibility so that\u0027s the also give an example that is a static a configuration in this case okay in for the Southside you use a but you for the same side okay it\u0027s also configure okay it a bit then there\u0027s some inconsistency exist so it\u0027s better just based on this the Conqueror it\u0027s a bite to config the type of calendar at both ends so just we kind of percolate any possibility about how the device can be implemented we should avoid having the specific model is for the model a single we should a cover and must say the possible case and the next okay that\u0027s all I\u0027m speaking I would like to clarify that the 8023 defines the interface between the atomic function and the EMF yeah yeah modal is the interface on top of the EMF and also in the attitude list of 40 we have clarified that though if something is available as an MI doesn\u0027t need to be exposed in the young model okay we are also working question 14 to try to avoid to expose every bits on the wire as an attribute in a young model but we suppose only what needs to be configured managed and and reported okay so my answer about this I said we should give someone elseís about a use case to say I have a problem with this logic you are you couldn\u0027t wrong Oh F CC that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:47:02",
    "text": "a is always active a Conda P it\u0027s never used how to probability that B is the anything with they are not used at all okay why we need to configure the transmitter this our communication to the other side I also theory in the proteins are radical explanation we should not approach any kind of a possibility some time when winner is true to implement to the device in this way in that if for the way sometimes okay another vendor is true to the implementation another way we should avoid so you\u0027re not restricted to one specific case we should not right okay so you are implying some proprietary implementation not a RF dependent behavior right you\u0027re quoting something so in the aware what about some other use cases maybe you can bring it out that\u0027s we can we can see whether a solution or any problems here right we are talking about the Oh absence here I already give like it\u0027s pregnancy twice sorry this from Hawaii I have a different sort here also regard to the calendar configuration a and B if you are going to define this attribute and then when you when you assign the parameters of this attribute to the to the to the device and so the so the the running calendar of the Flexi on the device should be disrupt because you are reading the new parameters there so I think that that is how to do there is the interrupter of the service of the Flexi service so have you I will consider it there is any other way that you make because the calendar a and B a current configuration and be defined in the Oh F that is the main the main target of this two because there are two calendars why there are two calendars because one is always only one is active another one is the backup sitting it\u0027s like a backup then you have two calendars that if you are going to resize or add the slots of the any modification of the client that you can use the different calendar to switch over between them and to have us richly richly switch over but you are going to use the use the parameters there that you always there is a disrupt this disrupt of the service that so I think it\u0027s not the main the initial go to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:04",
    "text": "define this too because you always disrupted the service so I mean do you have any consider that if there is any better way or the other way like to to to us yeah tomorrow this yeah okay for this side is to talk about is a consistency between the source and I think I did not talk about that okay listen to you doesn\u0027t mention this is okay for the unset wheel prize I\u0027ll sing with I\u0027ve already considered about them maybe we could communicate a lot about this yeah there could be something that you think about it I think because we don\u0027t have enough questions just Rob Francisco so my understanding is there\u0027s two competing flexi models here there\u0027s discussions to which to go with now I would suggest and bear in mind I\u0027d see the Cisco or from one of those drivers yeah yes formats so but what I would say is I think rather than concentrate on these details and you can put if you there\u0027s some things that are going to be optional or could be implemented you can use yang\u0027s features to allow those things to be optionally configured a separate question as to whether or not these things should be exposed or not imagine model that\u0027s a different question but yeah if some people want them and some people don\u0027t I think user features my suggestion from a young doctor\u0027s perspective is to try and get commonalities to look at the shape of the models and try and get alignment on the fundamental shapes because really about what things you represent as interfaces or what configuration you take out and not put into config into interfaces and my understanding is that actually with flexi the the issues about when you create those interface and whether they get set up that maybe if you put one of the interfaces you get like a catch-22 of of that sort of issue so it may be that in some cases that having it outside will fit better possibly but I think that I would try and look at shape and get agreement those yeah okay it\u0027s not just a young daughter suggestion is a common sensor please start building something together guys not keep on saying this thing is my is bad mine is better yours is worse because otherwise we\u0027re not getting anywhere and start away that the major issues because to me the calendar a calendar B yes it\u0027s an issue that is not the biggest one I would say that the switching part of the configuration that\u0027s that\u0027s that that\u0027s the starting point in my dammit so what then Nellie what do you say at a shaker you know David to hell more questions no no okay go ahead I\u0027m sorry I interrupted "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:53:05",
    "text": "he\u0027s awake though which was more than and what could be said about 10 minutes ago know what I was gonna suggest regarding what should be shouldn\u0027t be exposed have we reached out to the OIF at all I\u0027m sure they would have an opinion on this right so like why not put something down on paper as a proposal and go send it over to them and find out what they think about this yeah this is a possible approach and also anyway I think actually on if the author\u0027s all of you would like to progress this work you have to sit together to look together to have better understanding on each other\u0027s you know our solutions and you have to converge anyway right if you cannot convince to also see each other how you can convince the working group right so anyway you should work together first yeah okay thank you hello everyone this is a homie okay and okay this this presentation has 5 pages I think you have only three minutes ok ok next so ok this is a new data moto proposed to do the client signal performance monitoring and this is a based on based on the service model we have been we have been promoted in this working group and we have specified two different kind of service one is Ethernet and the other is transparent client signal over the Assyrian Paris tunnels so drafter is gone here to indicate where the performance monitoring is set and where the performance monitoring need to be interacted with each other so basically this is kind of for operation need and the operator need to understand the what is what has been after what has been configured to the network what is the performance and to decide the future actions so the model would be related with a few other models because besides the performance monitoring the OEM alarm and their related concept and we will reference to these documents this are RFC\u0027s and regarding the client service we are generating dedicated performance monitoring models for both Ethernet service and the transparent clients tourism we have been also aware of other performance monitoring models in this working group focus on being and the tunnel but not on service and the other model is from on bass which are service "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:05",
    "text": "but for VPN service so we had we again though we focus on the performance for these two kind of services specified and we currently only have one parameters for performance monitoring that is latency and we use that as an example to kick off the work and what has been our plan included a bit error rate packet loss jitter and so on so first every scene has a specific definition and has a data plane reference to look into we would look into our future follow-up so we don\u0027t have to have the plan to define any new parameters so far so to move forward I think we need to do a few actions including we confirm the usefulness of the work in the working group and we agree on the scope especially we need to think about whether it\u0027s a technology space vehicle or generic we have already received some feedback from the t\u0027s working group and we will talk with other related documents the authors of other related documents so that that means we also need to agree on the model relationship so and then the next step is to integrate more parameters listed the in previous table that\u0027s all for presentation and I would like to ask people to read this and provide us feedback thank you so I think this the Nuge after whisky have more chance to learn to discuss on the list okay so next the morning so this is eeling from our speaking this job day is about the a severe extension in support of protect proactive profession actually it was presented in this working group it is Tuesday and it was agreed to move to the Tisch working group and but still want OSHA indeed in second working group because I think the use cases of the the typical use cases of this job is a very related to transport network so so your comments will be very welcome and I\u0027ll go through it very quickly because I know Daniel yes there have been a difficult time so yeah okay the background is that the listen public technology so step and that could be some indications before failure physical failure happens so it\u0027s possible to toast the failure prediction before the real failure happens so in the profession Minister we if we can catch up with predicting failure then we can create a protection protection past "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:59:07",
    "text": "before the really real failure happens so that is the proactive protection so we make protocol centers to support these kind of functions so so okay sorry so okay thank you and this is the main idea say auntie one does not see finds that predicted their reserve I will cut it will be a fabric art happens in the near future then you will notify to another a and then in t indented the not a in T two can create a protection pass to protect this connection and in T for if the real failure happens then we can start to the one part for example one pass one protection switch to protect connections and if finally the failure hat has not happened if and if we find the either safe enough thing we can tear down your protection past who save the results and for the protocol extensions is a quite simple we actually had two bits to the protection protection object to indicate that this is the proactive protection and these two bits are used to indicate the the intermediate node to start the proactive protection function as we know we have the 48 72 and for the 87 in story about the end-to-end protection and second own protection so distribution for each arc for for each other so for the segment prodigious almost the same and another extension is about the say there\u0027s no D its extension to the notification about the proactive predicted failure notification which is if ik different from the royal failure notification and we also English is optionally we can also include the tongue before which the failure will happen and they if no further happen when on for example in case in this figure then the South node came considering to tear down the protect protection connections okay so for the next step we have decided to move it to the T squatting group and I see as you also copied to the second working group and to get your heap feedback from the yeah foreigner group let\u0027s see thank you okay Gregg mercy City so you do this and to end protection not not a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:11",
    "text": "span protection not a link protection so it\u0027s it\u0027s not local protection you do end-to-end protection okay then I don\u0027t see that they\u0027re required any extensions because if you do end-to-end monitoring of performance you can have some policy that defines dynamics of their service the quality degradation and then you can decide whether you are in a zone when you want to instantiate the protection because you\u0027re really conditions are worsening to the case of close to be a failure so because of that if you are doing end-to-end protection so you do monitoring end to end with any performance measurement method and you don\u0027t need to signal anything so you decide on the head and thus you instantiate associated Channel when you notice that you\u0027re crossing the threshold so I don\u0027t see that need of any necessary extension all the mechanics already in rsvp-te okay so let me clarify at most it\u0027s informational draft yeah let me let me cut classify say a proactive failure is different from for example the signal degree or signal failure because that it from the data plan you can continue to receive the data as normal no data impact so you don\u0027t you cannot catch up with this kind of information see in the source node or other end node one other example is that if we keep monitoring on the SOP this data of the state of the polarization if fiber is say have a precious or sketch the SOP will change greatly but the data is you do not have any we are in the in the working path so it does not do not aware of see this event you still need a notification from the control plane well this is interesting technical discussion I think we\u0027re highlighting why you don\u0027t do sort of draft shopping in different working groups since we said this is going to be in tees if we were going to have a technical conversation we now have to have exactly the same conversation and T\u0027s better to take this to the t\u0027s list and have that conversation there rather than trying to do take up multiple working groups time talking about the same thing okay so that\u0027s just my opinion I can\u0027t understood yeah okay I think me Tina Jen Danny oh really yeah thank you very much I bid to all of you okay say you are next time when kuat thank you back "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:05:24",
    "text": "you "
  }
]