[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "hello can you hear me yes I got a no and a yes from two people sitting within 5 feet of each other so that\u0027s interesting could be louder I am not really in control of it stand closer I\u0027m just gonna win with this just do the whole plenary like this all right welcome everyone to the IETF 1:06 administrative and operations plenary there\u0027s food in the hallway but all of you made the right choice to come inside rather than eating the food we had a really great plan for this meeting we knew that there would be lots of contentious topics on the agenda this week people may have heard we\u0027re trying to encrypt the DNS transports the spring working group needed 17 hours of meeting time to talk about segment routing or so many contentious topics though that we knew would be coming so you planned the meeting in a very hot place knowing people would bring all their summer clothes and then we froze the meeting rooms but the idea being that if you\u0027re really cold you don\u0027t wanna spend a lot of time arguing you just want to get to the end so you can go back outside and warm up well we were thwarted in this plan because but delightful people at the Secretariat brought blankets handed them out to people and as a result we\u0027ve had to actually debate and fight to the bitter end to achieve the consensus that we all are seeking here in the ITF but thank you Secretariat because you\u0027re always looking out for us here\u0027s the agenda for the plenary tonight we\u0027ll hear from our meeting host first then we\u0027ll have brief updates from a variety of different parts of the IETF the IAB the IRT F the RFC series editor the NomCom the ITF executive director and the ITF LLC board have a bit of a preview of hf 107 we have the Jonathan B pastel award that will be handed out here a section in memoriam a recognition section and then we\u0027ll have our three open microphone sessions so first I\u0027d like to express a huge thank you to our meeting host for this meeting nokia nokia have recently signed up yes thank you Nokia recently signed up as one of our global hosts a global host commits to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "hosting multiple meetings for the ITF over a multi-year period so we\u0027re super thankful to them for their support and Kent Wong is gonna talk to us good afternoon everybody welcome to the beautiful senior poll I wanted to say sunny Singapore but there\u0027s a bit of rain this week and it\u0027s very cold in the conference room right so welcome for the beautiful to the beautiful Singapore I hope you enjoy all the meeting so far this week and enjoy the social event in the arc Science Museum yesterday yeah I think it\u0027s kind of cool to have our social event in the museum setting listening so my name is Kent well I had the IP optic routing group for Nokia for Asia Pacific since this is the first time I think the new note here\u0027s host this event I thought I would just make two quick pod first one some of you may ask what does Nokia have to do with IETF don\u0027t you guys just make handset phone believe me my colleagues and I still got asked this question from time to time when we toil friends will work for Nokia eternal in the last 15 16 years of industry consolidation merger acquisition when Nokia is now a collection of many different technology and companies one example solved the Kali here in the room and myself we joined we are from the Nokia IP routing group which originated is technology from a start-up in Silicon Valley called high Metro a magical qualified Alcatel in 2003 alcatel-lucent merge in 2006 and Nokia acquired alcatel-lucent in 2015 so this is just one example and of course through the years I mean with many colleague that from coming from parallel coming from former Alcatel coming from former loosen and formal Nokia seamen and form a new bridge as well so I mean today if I look around I think this year we have close to 30 delegates from Nokia joined IETF and I\u0027ve been involved in many many different standard and areas we\u0027re committed to IETF and will continue to support ITF activities so there\u0027s the first part second one is a bit more personal so I have a confession to make I\u0027ve always wanted to attend IETF never got the chance and this is my first time so I remember 18 years ago when I started in furniture my first project is to implement the graceful restart job for all the routing protocol internet sure so at the time you were still a job so I send a lot of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:07",
    "text": "email to the idea yeah IETF not only is to ask for question make some suggestion always get good response and collaboration spirit earlier this week I did a look up in the IETF and I find my name was in the announcements session for the OSPF quest always the OFC so I feel so proud to be associated to IETF in a small way because you are the organization who continue to innovate and continue to printer events the paths of technology to make the internet and make the industry take so again enjoy this week sure you\u0027ll get a lot of productive work and pressure on this way as always and going to print the path of technology to the industry thank you very much we have a small token of our appreciation here a nice plaque for you [Music] alright so next up is is the report from myself the ITF chair and from the is she I\u0027m gonna keep it brief this time trying to keep the plenary a bit snappier will go through some participant statistics and then an update on conduct in the ITF so here at ITF 106 we have actually one more participant who registered since we created this slide earlier today so we have 999 people on-site well I hear we\u0027re gonna break a hundred thousand sometimes people register late super late in the week so we should be hitting a thousand by the end of the week and we have 147 first time attendees here with us and attendees from 61 different countries about on par with last time we met in Asia for ITF 103 it\u0027s the end of the year so I thought it might be nice to do a little bit of a look back over the last couple of years here you can see that participation numbers the attendance numbers for the last two years worth of meetings the last two each of the last two years were fairly similar to each other and you can see the pattern there fairly similar attendance numbers and we\u0027ve met in the same region at the same time of year for the last two years so there you can compare fairly easily if we look at the remote participation numbers we couldn\u0027t provide numbers for 106 because a lot of people register and participate later in the week and we didn\u0027t want to give you half of a number but you can see there at least over the course of the last year an upward trend and remote "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "participation and these are this is the number that counts any remote participant who attends at least one working group remotely if we look at the hackathon we also see a nice upward trend there becoming a more and more popular event didn\u0027t quite hit our all-time high that we had in Prague at this meeting but still more than we had in the summer in Montreal which is great and just another word on the hackathon and those 300 people who were in the room were working on 41 different projects together again this year this meeting we had the hack demo happy hour on Monday night where individuals and teams could show off their work for the rest of the community who may not have been at the hackathon themselves and the next Agathon that we have planned is same again will be the weekend prior to ITF 107 in Vancouver so for those who haven\u0027t had a chance to participate in this thus far I really encourage you to come and check it out the hack upon itself is is free to attend and all of that work has really had a major impact on the standards development work that we do in the ITF by creating a feedback loop with implementations and the developer community so thanks to all who\u0027ve been participating so for the last few meetings been talking about conduct and behavior in the IETF people may be aware that we have a code of conduct in the ITF and the objective that we strive for is that everybody who comes to participate is treated with dignity decency and respect we want this to be a welcoming place for everyone since the last meeting there\u0027s a few different initiatives that I\u0027ve been working on and that the isg has been has been working on one is ongoing discussions between the area directors and the working group chair is about participant behavior so collectively as the isg we have a set of guidelines and samples of good and bad behavior that we\u0027ve been using to have one-on-one discussions with our working group chairs about how they can foster a more collaborative and friendly environment so those conversations are ongoing we\u0027ve also been getting some assistance from professional resources reaching out to a few different folks who work on conduct and conflict management as their as their profession and they\u0027ve been helping to advise us and we\u0027ve been investigating other ways to get further support possibly with some hands-on training potentially in time for the next meeting so hoping to continue to work with those people and then finally there\u0027s been a few updates in the realm of the sergeant-at-arms these are the people "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "who serve as the list moderators for ietf at ITA org you can see them up on the screen there matthew Miller and Dhruv Dodi Dhruv is new to the team since the last meeting and he\u0027s been really integral of both he and Matt as we\u0027ve developed an engagement model for the sergeant\u0027s at arm\u0027s so if you visit the link there you\u0027ll see some standard operating procedures that we\u0027ve developed for the sergeant\u0027s at arm\u0027s some email templates that we intend to use to make sure that when the sergeant\u0027s that arms are engaging with people from the IHF community that that they\u0027re doing so in a consistent way and communicating clearly about concerns related to behavior on ITF at IETF torgue we did put that out for community review and feedback and I met this week with the sergeant-at-arms team to start reviewing some of that feedback so you should be seeing responses to many of those comments in the coming weeks on a related note just wanted to summarize for people some of the changes that have occurred recently with respect to mailing lists where a general IETF discussion and process discussion happens so we created a new mailing list since the last ITF meeting called last call at ITF org and this is where all of the ITF last call discussions are now happening about about documents that are in last call the moderators are Jared mouch and Ron Gondwana we still have IETF at IETF org which is for working group charter reviews general announcements and general discussion and initial kind of process discussion and brainstorming about process issues and there we have the sergeant-at-arms whoo-hoo moderate and then we have a new working group called Gen dispatch chartered in the general area to to provide a forum for discussion of process proposals that are a little bit more fleshed out so things might initially begin on ITF at IETF but eventually they may move to the gen dispatch working group where they can be discussed and then some determination is made about whether they will be able answered or turned into a new working group or how they will be otherwise handled and for that we have the working group chairs who are doing the list moderation that\u0027s Francesca Pelham B\u0026E and Pete Resnick there\u0027s lots of other topics that we covered online I sent out a report in advance of this meeting to the IETF mailing list so you can check out there\u0027s more information there including the fact that we received no Appeals in the last period since the last meeting and reports from many other groups and bodies that are part of the IETF and with that I will ask Collin Perkins to come on up "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:19",
    "text": "okay Thank You Alyssa my name is Colin Perkins I\u0027m the chair of the internet research task force the IRT F is the research arm of the IETF we do research we don\u0027t do standards development the ITF is organized as a number of research groups we have 14 groups currently those highlighted in green on the slide are still - meets this week so if you\u0027re interested in computation in the network if you\u0027re interested in path aware networking if you\u0027re interested in network management network coding or the thing two-finger research group please try and come along to these groups later in the week if you\u0027re interested in the differences between the IRT F and the IETF RFC 74 18 it was a really nice primer on how the IRT F works and how it differs from an IETF working group and I would encourage you to in addition to the research groups the IETF runs the applied networking research workshop in cooperation with ACM signal those of you who are on the meeting in Montreal earlier in the year well have seen the previous edition of this workshop running and pleased to announce that the 2020 applied networking research workshop will be running at the Madrid meeting will be chaired by Maria and Roland many of you I\u0027m sure know Maria probably know Roland as well if you\u0027re interested in hearing more details about this come talk to me come to me Rhea who\u0027s also here this week will tell you about about this workshop look out for the call for papers within the next couple of weeks papers will beat you most likely in April of next year in addition we run the applied networking research prize in conjunction with the Internet Society the applied networking research prize is awarded for recent results in applied networking research that are potentially relevant for transitioning into the standards community into shipping products that are potentially of interest to this to this community both the a RTF and the AE ETF communities we made five awards this year - Florian straight belts - Brendan Schlenker - Nessa Rosen chef - TJ Chung and that this this this meeting earlier this week - waiting Cheng in the IRT F open meeting we\u0027ve also have one award which has been deferred and will be awarded next year nominations for the 2020 applied networking research prize are open if you\u0027ve read any interesting papers you know looking in the area of applied networking research please consider nominating them the link is on the slide the nomination deadline is the Sunday November thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:37",
    "text": "good afternoon everybody this is the report from the internet architecture board one of the jobs of the IAB is to manage appointments to external bodies on behalf of the IGF community among the most important of them made in the most recent period was the reappointment of Adrian Farrell as independent submissions editor we thank Adrian for his two years of service so far and for his willingness to stand for an additional term thanks very much to Adrian we have also appointed Peter Cook to the ICANN NomCom and we\u0027re seeking nominations for the Internet Society Board of Trustees since our email to the community you will also see a new request we are also seeking nominations for the ICANN governance working group the gwg is part of the mechanism by which I can and the root server system Advisory Committee are putting together a new governance structure for the root server system another thing the iev does is make occasional public statements there was one such public statement during this period calling out the unintended consequences of policy and regulatory proposals this was originally inspired by the statement that went directly to the Australian government but has been broadened and made more general so that we don\u0027t have to make specific statements to individual governments in the future I\u0027m happy to report like the IAS G there were no Appeals in this period during this period a number of documents moved to the RFC editor the first four of these are cluster that came out of the ITF is a to process because the documents they were updating were on the IAB stream they moved from ISO to into the IEP process for community review and approval and they were all approved during this past period the last one here was draft IB 50 years which was Heather\u0027s reflections on the first 50 years of the RFC series there are a number of other documents that are either in preparation or currently in community review which is the equivalent of last call draft IAB for the users the internet is for end-users and the harmful consequences of the robustness principle principles for operation of internet assigned numbers Authority registries and long term viability of protocol extension mechanisms we look forward to your comments on those either directly to the IAB or to the architectural disgust list there are two workshop reports currently in preparation the first is for the design expectations first deployment realities or deader workshop and the second is for the exploring synergy between content aggregation and the publisher ecosystem or escape workshop lastly is all of you know the ID has a number of programs among them are suck as a management program the IB received an Esso W from our sock for the temporary RFC editor project manager after their community cum consultation during his past period and has tremendous transmitted to the ITF LLC on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:38",
    "text": "October 2nd this is now moved into a different phase of the the s ou W an RFP process then is managed by the IAB but just for your information the proposals received are being considered now with the proposed start in January in addition the IAB is assisting Heather on the output of the RAC me community discussions and she is up next to tell you more about this and other RFC editor topics you\u0027re also quiet did you hibernate in the cold no okay um have a fine again RC series editor for a little while I\u0027m getting just gonna go through a couple of quick updates um so you know what I would ask how many of you are aware that we are working on changing the RFC format what some some well if you\u0027re not we need to talk um because it\u0027s already happened so we are not in in the process of we have in fact changed the RFC format and with the publication of RFC 86 51 on October 8 we are now in the process of we have this huge corpus of documents that all need to be converted everything that was in all 48 has been converted and we\u0027re now going through our C editor and edicue and all those other things to to get them all into v3 and oh we\u0027re finding so many lovely edge cases of things that we have to iterate on to figure out what\u0027s the right thing with the tool etc etc this is one of the reasons as you may recall from conversations earlier this year that the service level agreement is essentially on hold until April so that we can we can work through this process and then try and get caught up on things if you would like to help because one of the things that makes this challenge as I mentioned we have a nice large corpus of material including things like cluster 238 it came in at the same time the format was going live so did cluster 340 that\u0027s a lot of documents if you have a document in cube it isn\u0027t in off 48 and you would like to perhaps reach out to the RFC editor and say we\u0027re willing to help do the work to convert this to v3 please drop them a note and tell them that if you want to know a little bit more information as to what would you be getting yourself into if you made such a marvelous request I strongly suggest you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:41",
    "text": "look at the FAQ that\u0027s linked to on these slides it answers a lot of questions that people have had about well what about tables what about diagrams what about all these other things so it\u0027s a it\u0027s a very important resource for you and I hope you all uh come familiar with it um the I did not name this session by the way I VRS eme no I didn\u0027t do that but the session was held yesterday morning and this was sort of the culmination of a of virtual calls we had three in different time zone just to get as many people involved as we could the result of these conversations held at the on the calls in the session and on the RFC interest mailing list is to recommend establishing an open IEP program that would basically drive consensus in the community of interest around any changes to the RFC editor model if you would like to know more about that I\u0027ve already updated the draft based on the feedback in the session that got posted this afternoon so that\u0027s out there and if you have feedback on that in terms of what\u0027s being proposed for moving this conversation forward now would be a really good time to share it because my hope is that the the draft is reasonably complete it\u0027s not going to be published as an RFC but it\u0027s something that I would like to be able to hand off to the IB at the earliest possible moment so that they can actually act on the recommendations this year I mentioned the service level agreement being on hold until April how many of you know that for for everything v2 and earlier there\u0027s now annotated RFC\u0027s our SES that have been annotated with verified errata some of you know that most of you are just staring at me well guess what they are there you can get to them via the data tracker if you know that there is an RFC that has errata and they\u0027re not showing make sure that the outer errata are verified not hold for document update not anything like that and those are out there um we do not have those for v3 yet because there\u0027s just not that many v3 documents at this point and it\u0027s a require a little bit of a different work and a different tool chain to do that so it is expected later and with that that is my last five minutes of fame is the RFC series editor I wish you all the very very best going forward and I will come up with the IV for questions later thank you makes a lot of noise walking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:51",
    "text": "up here alright this is a non come update for this year the first thing about Nam Kham is we can\u0027t talk about Nam Kham actually no we can\u0027t talk about calm all right Singapore so last ITF we assembled the group of folks who will slave I mean work for the community to select the for the rolls coming up this year this Nam Kham which is 106 where we do all the interviews so that\u0027s us we look like silhouettes when we\u0027re in the room and we\u0027re interviewing all the folks who put their names forward and were willing to serve the community this is a kind of a view of the process we we slept we got the NomCom committee together previously back in the early summer we had a call for nominees as we approach August in September we had we started a call for a feedback a number weeks ago and the green areas where we are now where we\u0027re looking for feedback so I may remind everyone we\u0027re looking for feedback we need lots and lots of feedback we need to know what you guys think of all the nominees so we can make the best selection possible for the community and once we finish the feedback period in the interview period we move on to deliberations so just in case you don\u0027t know where to put a ride the feedback in the native tracker you can move on to web page it looks just like that under the NomCom 2019 section there is a section there you can click on feedback and you can provide you feedback on all the nominees Summoner nominees whatever you like and we did come here ready to work we\u0027re working together the NomCom is very sited there\u0027s lots of opinions we\u0027re moving forward we\u0027re interviewing all the folks or having a great time so who\u0027s on the NomCom if the NomCom members don\u0027t mind standing up to show everybody who you are these are the folks not sure who\u0027s all there here they are these are the ones who have taken their time they stopped doing all the other work not all their other work and they\u0027re here to take your feedback please please please reach out to them in the hallways they have orange dots [Applause] the best way to know what happens at the ITF is to be part of the NomCom you learn a lot about the various positions of their various roles it\u0027s a great experience and we feed you so don\u0027t forget that there\u0027s so much food we\u0027re all going to gain five pounds so the number of positions we have IHG positions and we have IB positions available for this cycle those are two years those are for two years and this year we\u0027re gonna revisit the start of the refilling of the LLC and the trust positions and those are three year moving forward last year was the one and only year where we had a 1 a 2 and a 3 year as we sat in and primed those new positions but moving forward every year the NomCom were refilled one of the outgoing positions both for the board LLC and for the ITF trust so I chart no "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:55",
    "text": "I\u0027ll just highlight a couple of things I was told everyone likes numbers so I have some numbers here as I noted in the in the grey box areas LLC board ITF there was three positions last year moving forward we\u0027re gonna have one so what are all these other numbers there\u0027s been a lot of discussion about hey how many people do we have for the various positions just to highlight a couple of things that we\u0027ve noticed within the NomCom just for the community to be aware one good news is we had an amazing number of nominations for transport the summer out it was very very high however not as many accepts so I think for every 15 people we nominate one might actually accept so so we need 45 next year if we want to get three all right the the purple and the black triangles or not triangle started square is one thing we\u0027ve noticed is sometimes when there is an incumbent who also wants to you know continue to go forward there\u0027s sometimes tends to be less people willing to put their name forward for that position that\u0027s one thing we\u0027ve noticed I\u0027m not going to put any qualitative analysis into that however I think it\u0027s important for folks to know that even incumbents want to make sure that we have other people that are ready to take position take the position anyhow it\u0027s good to be part of the process it\u0027s good to go through the process and we don\u0027t know we always want the best folks for the roles so I would you know don\u0027t let incumbency block one from you know putting your name forward and accepting the opportunity to serve the community and a greater capacity it\u0027s very important so what can you do feedback I said it a few times I say it again we need feedback please please please provide your feedback it\u0027s very very important nominate people next time around obviously we\u0027re too late this year but nominate yourself sometimes means someone doesn\u0027t know that you are willing to put your name forward so please nominate yourself if that\u0027s what it takes let the community know you\u0027re willing to take a position and that way if you have an opinion you can help in the leadership roles and if you want to really really help the community be part of the leadership that\u0027s it oh sorry you should tell people the deadline for feedback because it\u0027s very close thank you see is that so the deadline for feedback it but human error some part of the NomCom yes he\u0027s keeping us on our toes so the end of the day Thursday is the last opportunity for feedback so please please please you have another whole day in a few hours to get that in so if you have anything to say please enter that in okay I think now I\u0027m finished thank you very mu it--if executive "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:09",
    "text": "director and I\u0027m sure you know Portia who is the outgoing interim IT executive director ATF executive director before I start with the slides I just want to give real thank you to some people so four weeks into this role and I\u0027ve had considerable port support getting myself acquainted with some arcane customs with lots of different processes with some unusual documents and various other things so I\u0027ve had fantastic support thank you very much from Portia particularly been very efficient from the Secretariat who have been absolutely spectacular from ELISA who\u0027s gone out of a way to give me significant time to help with things and from the many members of the community that I\u0027ve come across and spoken to so thank you it\u0027s been very welcoming and a very nice way to start off in a new job it will probably all go to custard from now but it also now it\u0027s been wonderful thinking so first of all I want to thank our global host Tokyo who have gone out of their way to make this a successful meeting could I please ask you all to do them around the pool [Applause] you may want to keep off your keyboards you will be clapping a lot for the next couple of minutes so I\u0027d also like you to thank I can our hackathon sponsor another successful part of the meeting as we heard earlier the Welcome Reception which I particularly enjoyed was supported by more Italian dough a broadband company who will also hear about later as well so can we please thank them very much the as you know we are in Singapore and we were supported Abele by the Singapore exhibition and Convention Bureau and I think that they\u0027ve gone out of their way to make this a particularly nice event so please thank them as well of course is the home of Jin and I do hope you\u0027ve all experienced that so our connectivity sponsors it connects mortal endo and NTT once again have gone out of their way to deliver fantastic bandwidth to us please thank all of those and our equipment sponsors when I found out how much money and how much equipment they give us I was astonished it is really quite something giving us so please thank them very much Cisco and juniper and our Sister\u0027s program sponsors also "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:10",
    "text": "deserve a thank you that is Comcast and fastly thank you very much so for the code sprint the ITF data tracker enhancements we had a number of people turn up and who are again very useful this continues to be an ongoing feature of the meetings so thank you very much those people who gave their time to help with data tracker the NOC team I am also very impressed by I have been in there and they have explained everything in great detail and I have come over my head buzzing that has been remarkable I have resisted the temptation to tell them how to do things differently so that has been marvelous line speed meet echo and all of the volunteers really are quite dedicated and I think the fact that they are a lot to wager in the day time means that we don\u0027t often see how well they do so thank you to them as well [Applause] so for ITF 107 in Vancouver our host will be Iowa so please thank them for agreeing to sponsor that meeting have a number of sponsorship opportunities available so everybody I know and have known for some time I\u0027m gonna be stealing your wallets at some point thank you very much so finally then on thank yous well actually there may be more we need to thank our global hosts so these are people have made long-term commitments to support the ITF which really is quite something in this day and age who are giving us that money to ensure the longevity of the ITF and who can make our lives a lot easier because we know we have that long term funding so we have cisco juniper Comcast NBC Universal Ericsson and Nokia thank you all very much as well [Applause] future meeting venues we have a number of these pin down now just a note that beginning in 2022 you probably know this better than me we are shifting the order of the regions so that Asia is the first region in the year this is where we stand so far we\u0027re currently still looking for sponsors for some of these meetings and we are still looking at venues and cities so we can\u0027t yet fill this in fully but that will be filled in over time and you\u0027ll hear about that right so for this meeting we have had these are the figures to show you the number of participants revenue is above budget don\u0027t get excited it\u0027s not going to be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:10",
    "text": "an open bar some years and sometimes it\u0027s under sometimes it\u0027s over it\u0027s very good that it\u0027s over but it\u0027s we have to look it over a long term prospect for that but it\u0027s still very good finished this meeting registration breakdown as you\u0027ve heard we still have where we have a breakdown across there of people I\u0027ll leave that for you to have a look at I think one of the things I would be looking at is better data here for the IHG so that they\u0027re able to look at this and do something more valuable with it but for now this is simply a table for you so that\u0027s it thank you very much there will be proper thanks to Porsche and the board session but um thank you all for making my first time Pleasant okay [Applause] all right thank you I\u0027m Jason Livengood here from the LC board to give an update so this is the board I believe at least Peter is remotely participating from his home in Belgium Maya planned to but she\u0027s ill at the moment and ELISA and Shawn are obviously here we have some upcoming board meetings I won\u0027t go through the details here what we\u0027ve been trying to do is basically publish several months in advance when the board meetings are and we invite people to participate when we hold some of those coincident with ITF meetings or ICANN meetings or other meetings we welcome people to attend in person as well so recent work completed we have been busy since the last meeting have importantly gotten some some big things done first obviously hired a permanent executive director J who just spoke a moment ago we also recently finalized the first round of LLC policies and in addition we filed on the website all of the conflict of interest policies or filings excuse me for the board members including two additional memos pertaining to them and some of that will be updated as things change we also had the executive director announced contract rewards for a number of the RFPs that have been put out including CPA that will be in place before end of year automatic schedule builder and in the midst of finalizing the Secretariat services RFP and a number of others and lastly we are just in the process of publishing and wrapping up our 2020 budget which is really the first time that we\u0027ve been on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:10",
    "text": "top of what our expenses actually look like and you know a number of those from the past few months so that\u0027s important as well we certainly sent a welcome email out and did a roll out announcing J joining the organization we\u0027re delighted that he\u0027s come to to work here so thank you for that and Portia if you could come up please I wanted to make a moment take a moment excuse me to really extend our thanks to Porsche so she has served here as executive director since 2017 so about two years and really provided a bridge from the IOC or the original I Assam model to the new model and helped us navigate through a time of incredible administrative and legal uncertainty and did that with the plum so we really appreciate her efforts she\u0027s continuing through the end of the year to help that transition occur so I\u0027d like to please recognize Portia for the great work [Applause] [Music] and we have a couple things because we know that the ITF can be a real pain in the ass or pain in the back or pain in the neck we got you a gift of the Mandarin Oriental in Washington DC if you\u0027d like to have a massage or something like that try to work all the stress of dealing with us out so thank you for that and we have a nice plaque a newly redesigned one so so what\u0027s coming next between now on the next meeting first while we announced the policies that doesn\u0027t mean that they\u0027re really enforced so we have to implement them which essentially means roll them out and then have a compliance program to ensure that we comply with them and so expect to hear more news on those things soon we have a number of RFPs that need to be wrapped up basically contracts that need to be done so J\u0027s on top of that with legal counsel so we\u0027re pleased that that will close out by end of year and then finalize the 20 closure that should occur over the next couple of weeks so don\u0027t anticipate any issues there and then as we shift focus to next year we\u0027ll have a face-to-face meeting in the first quarter and the focus of that will be to extend the initial strategic assessment that we did and focus a little bit more on things like fundraising and sponsorship and the endowment and really sort of go back to square one and say you know what\u0027s our objective for each of these activities and where do we want to go over the next "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:11",
    "text": "few years how do we want to resource them so that we can say increase fundraising responsive or what have you so that\u0027s an important one and then finally and we\u0027re almost all the way through this but finalizing an investment policy statement basically a guide to how things like our reserve funds and our endowment are invested to manage those resources so nothing magical there that should be done fairly soon this is we\u0027re happy during the question-and-answer time to take questions here this is a quick snapshot and it\u0027s a night chart I\u0027m not going to go through everything this is for us a bit of a transitional year because we came in as a board and the March timeframe with a budget that was developed before we really had a clear sense of costs and in a number of cases we\u0027ve had delays from when we projected bringing resources on and so that caused in some cases costs to be a little bit lower in other cases you know things ended up being a little bit more expensive than we thought so all those things meted out we think that our 2020 budget will be a little bit more accurate in those respects because we\u0027ve got real working data to go from and of course lots of ways to contact us we\u0027re happy to have your involvement and definitely encourage anyone to attend our regular meetings so I think with that thank you very much and we\u0027ll see you on the stage later on thank you so I just wanted to give a quick preview of IETF 107 anybody who\u0027s had a great time here should think about joining us again in March ITF 107 will take place in Vancouver March 21 to 27 and we\u0027ve been very pleased to secure a host for that meeting in Iowa so please join me in thanking huawei for signing up to sponsor the idea this will be the fourth meeting that hallway has hosted for the ietf and they also hosted the last meeting that we had in Vancouver IETF 88 so we\u0027re very pleased to have their support and they\u0027re quite pleased to be able to provide it to us and next up we have the Postell award thank you hello everyone I\u0027m Andrew Sullivan I\u0027m the president and CEO of the Internet Society and we are the presenters of the Jonathan beep Estelle award this is a service award that was created to honor the memory of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:13",
    "text": "Jon Postel I didn\u0027t know Jon Postel but many of you did he is sometimes invoked as something of a saint or a patron of in various in various arguments I am told reliably that he was however a truly and deeply human person who consistently gave his all for the benefit of the Internet he was of course the first editor of the arm of the RFC series he authored and co-authored dozens of hundreds of RFC s first director of Vienna etc but I think most importantly he provided us with this tradition of working on behalf of the Internet I think that the Internet is a marvelously human technology it\u0027s something you know it\u0027s very easy to forget that we\u0027re really working here on behalf of humanity and it\u0027s something that I you know I kind of wake up every day and I can\u0027t believe that I get to participate in this along with so many other people and I think that that\u0027s the reason that the Postell award was established the Internet Society this award to honor people and organizations who like castel made these outstanding contributions in service to the data communications community and there is surprised there is a crystal trophy that is right here and there is also a US dollar twenty thousand dollar prize there are many awardees many of these are people that that we all know and of course they have contributed consistently to the development of the internet and I think that that this long tradition allows us to reflect on how it is that that we get the Internet we get it as a collaborative effort something that we do together the fact that we do this thing together means that humans have to contribute to one another and as a collective effort in order to in order to do that this year\u0027s awardee is I think [Applause] [Music] many of you know na as as we can tell and he has been a contributor to the internet community for many many years he is one of the people who brought IP to Africa in the first place he is one of the people who helped in the creation of AfriNIC and continues to this very day working on education and research networks contributing to the development of this you know for everyone and I think that that is one of the most beautiful things so I want to thank him and invite him forward to say a few words [Applause] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:14",
    "text": "[Music] yeah thank you Andrew I am delighted to be here today as Jonathan postel awadhi 2019 my name is Elena but some simply call me Elaine hi Ana so he works explicitly in this community so many people has issues spending my last name I say IANA so wack so I come from Africa and I\u0027m someone who had opportunity to put his fingers in bulletin board system you GCPs tcp/ip as Andrew Jose said establishing the first connectivity in Togo Liberia\u0027s Guinea Conakry etc etcetera I\u0027ve been involved also in building the ecosystem in Africa and these days I\u0027m devoting my time building research and education network because this ecosystem the terrain ecosystem is lagging behind and not playing role we already expect from them in term of bringing engineers creating a new space for community engagement etc but what brought me here today I believe is model impact of my journeys and eternal itself I rested the technologies in mid nineteen were courage and determination when needed to build the knowledge to convince people to let you demonstrate and do what you think needed for people to move a bit and to connect and talk to each other it was also important to really push fight go species talk to government talk to civil society that Africa cannot stay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:14",
    "text": "away from what was going on at a time you all know Africa how government how this is a very important and for them internet was a no-go we have to do that at that time dedications and staff net commitment the sense of services and pragmatics where resources which empower and exerted me reading all these experience they are still driving me today these qualities and attitude come to mind when we think of dr. John Jon Postel the long walk to technologies and quarter difficulties and issues as expected but we seem programmed to never give up we contributed to history had been the foundation by continuously enabling and empowering many African fellows and beyond all along we share our patience spread the virus we activated by embarking orders and we continue to inspire many more today many thanks to those who a part of these journeys I see some in this room thank you very much [Applause] [Applause] I do ask for permission to conclude by giving a special thank to someone who many of us know very well professor Nick we know who made the long trek to be here tonight thanks prof four tirelessly monitoring the flame in me always moving the target and renewing because and for continuously reminders about the unfinished and their own started businesses of Internet on the continent thank you [Applause] okay ask Bob if you can come on up so on sadly we lost a few people from our "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:15",
    "text": "community since the last IETF meeting and Bob here is gonna come up and recognize Sally Floyd first Sally was someone who may not have wanted me to be the person that said this we had our run-ins but I wanted to give tribute to her for how much I learned from her and how much everyone else learned from her and not just from her research but from the way she conducted her research and the way she she explained that research as well her explanation style is what I remember most but for those of you that don\u0027t know who Sally was because she\u0027s not been around for some time now she retired in 2009 she was someone who knitted together the research community and the IETF and the IAB she retired 2007 to two years sorry she retired from active life here 2007 and if any of you heard of red random early detection algorithm there was there was and Van Jackson I\u0027ve tried to find out which it was more of but they were working together and that along with many many of our other research papers but at the point two years before she retired in the top ten cited researchers in the whole of computer science so you know that\u0027s that\u0027s quite something it\u0027s not just in networking she introduced the network simulator and s-two she was one of the lead lead on that and helped also to bring in and it\u0027s three afterwards and she also was the author on many many rfcs here she I mean you think you can go and look at her list but if I pick out I guess she\u0027s most known for her crusade for careful congestion control and she wrote many RFC\u0027s on that she was on the IAB and wrote a number of policy RFC\u0027s work "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:22",
    "text": "on an EC any explicit congestion notification and mostly I guess was all her work on TCP all the the parts of TCP that were brought in over the years to improve it a lot of that was Sally so but as I said it was her explanations that I remember most she sort of put aside time the own see on a sofa with you and explain how you needed to think about something and how to understand something more deeply and I should come to the mic in a conference and she did always explain to the audience the whole background before she gave the comment about and she never assumed that everyone knew everything so I particularly wanted to just say that I think the Internet\u0027s a lot safer because of Sally and you have to think what would have happened without her everything she did about congestion control particularly if she had not done that we might not have heard the Internet we\u0027ve gone now and just that ramming home continually how important it was even though it\u0027s something that had never you know after the congestion collapses in the 80s it is something that never happened you have to keep remembering what never happened so it doesn\u0027t happen and and the other point someone made to me was also all the people who she explained to she would put so much time into that you think if those people had not have listened to her how many dangerous things would have happened on the Internet because of all the stupid research that she stopped okay and so that is why the Internet\u0027s a safer place without Sally and this chap here has got to come on next his comment when I asked him what he would say in one sentence about her he said she walks on water [Music] well so I\u0027m actually I\u0027m gonna back up a little bit I have been to many CCNA classes and that kind of thing during my time at Cisco and educational environments throughout the world and everywhere that I would go I would have the teacher the professor come to me and say would you spend the lunch break with the women in my class because they think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:24",
    "text": "there is no place for women in IT and I would I actually had talked that I would show them and I would say let me introduce you to a few of my friends and Sally was an important one in that talk just the expertise and the persona and all that she brought to the party was very important oh I have to actually use the mic okay so now let me talk about one more Keith McLaury the the SNMP protocol was the outcome of the doctoral research done by Marshall Rose brought to the IETF with four major architects behind it Marshall and Geoff case and Steve ballbuster and Keith now the I went around and I spoke with or I emailed with various people who knew Keith and knew his contributions and asked them for comments and if there was one thing that I heard from every single one of them is that he was a gentleman and a very good engineer so I included those comments on on these slides here Andy Biermann I note is on the deme deco tonight so Andy\u0027s comment and one that I heard from many was that he was completely trusted by the community if they had made comments on a document in something needed to happen it if Keith understood didn\u0027t and he always did once Kees understood them the right thing would happen and he was trusted with which is an important thing Keith made a huge contribution in this community Sten rather who was the man a working group chair that\u0027s the way on October 22nd of this year I started working with Stan probably around 20 years ago we his team and I started working on something that was called ad-hoc Network at the time I didn\u0027t know what it was so we had the pleasure of having him explained to us and introduced all of us to that world of for structureless completely distributed networking at the beginning of our collaboration we didn\u0027t know each other very well but we quickly the whole team got to know him that\u0027s know his humor self-deprecating sarcastic and sometimes even politically correct "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:24",
    "text": "he was a engineer that always put his abilities down he didn\u0027t want to be the center of attention but it was clear from the beginning that he would be what he became he became pillar of the community he will be missed by a whole industry he made very important contributions some of them Allah and he\u0027s also a quarter of a OD version - he was a chair of the many working group for many many years during probably the most productive time of the working group but also the most contentious time in the working he was always there to provide his technical opinion to bring the working room forward to get it to consensus to try to move it along and have fruitful discussions all the time or last couple of years the working group has been slowing down so maybe for the last four or five months he was the only chair in the money where we last had a conversation on October 21st okay before he died and you talked about the meeting the working group and what we were planning to do here so today we actually had the meeting a meeting before right before the plenary and we did probably what Stan would have wanted to do many times especially during the contentious times was working we had a short meeting went through document updates and then we went to the bar we had a same red live tribute barb off-site meeting at an actual bar it was great which well stories about Stan self-deprecating sarcastic and some actually politically correct we drank beer beer that Stan would actually choose from a town in Germany called fuking after very care policy that work it\u0027s a hell you can put two hundred together which in German I think it means like a pale his closest friends from the working group in the ATF were there we will all miss him her stories of a these closing working groups while they\u0027re standing up here on the stage most of them before they leave the Aug I have my iPad here I\u0027m not gonna close the working group don\u0027t worry but I still haven\u0027t gotten the courage to take Stan off the list of chairs so that\u0027s ones there we go we\u0027re going to stand in the ATF in the industry you also good friend thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:24",
    "text": "thank you let\u0027s have a moment of silence to remember these three individuals thank you and thank you Robin Fred oh he\u0027s already here great so we\u0027re gonna move on to the recognition portion of the plenary hi I\u0027m Adrian Farrell and currently I\u0027m serving as an independent submissions editor and it\u0027s my task conceived noon to to thank Heather so Heather can we have you up here so that we can embarrass you publicly I was going to do some history of of the the RSC series editor and and so on but I went for a reference to a draft that Heather had written and frankly you might as well read her draft because I went nearly as good job some observations about Heather then largely speaking on in awe of Heather and this is not simply because my wife is a an editor I have a long long list of things to say about you don\u0027t worry Heather is I think unflappable at least she appears to be she sort of drifts around serenely like a swan and maybe underneath her legs are flapping but we we really don\u0027t notice that and I think she sort of parachuted into a very very strange environment where we\u0027re an odd set of people I I wouldn\u0027t say that we\u0027re easy to get on with in a work sense and it\u0027s not an easy environment to enter but Heather seemed to just drop in and was immediately working and being effective in particular she inherited two issues that have been hanging over us for absolutely forever the the fact that we publish our documents in ASCII and we really ought to go a bit beyond that and that our publication format was maybe a little rusty and old and those seem like "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:24",
    "text": "insurmountable problems they\u0027ve been there forever but Heather just got on with it and as you saw from her slides earlier progress has been made Heather is always polite at least she\u0027s always polite to me and she always appears to be polite to everybody else she\u0027s charming and totally and absolutely professional and every time I see her in a difficult situation dealing with it I\u0027m just blown away by how she manages to remain calm and professional she\u0027s been a great asset to us and I find it hard to imagine the ITF without her but although she will be missed we thank her and hope she will do well in her new work and I think we need it it\u0027s from Alyssa but anyway [Laughter] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] thank you it\u0027s been a character-building experience thank you and we\u0027re on to the IAB open microphone session so the IAB members could come on up Eric when we start with you with introductions Justin Sarah was hurt a good I\u0027m calling Perkins Alyssa Cooper "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:25",
    "text": "random stranger Melinda\u0027s or Minnie Steven pearl mark Nottingham nan Thompson Kris Jenner Eitam Oh yari Ark Michael Cera bass I don\u0027t have a question I really just wanted to stand at the microphone one last time and say thank you - Heather Flanagan you\u0027ve made my six years on the air saw an absolute dream I couldn\u0027t have asked for better I think what you\u0027ve given to the ietf since I didn\u0027t have any of that past history I mean no disrespect to everybody who came before you but if for anybody who comes after you they have extremely large shoes to fill I appreciate the advice that I\u0027ve gotten maybe received mostly gotten and if the C in our stock are saw who stood for classy then you would definitely put the class in classy I\u0027ll miss you thank you job Snider\u0027s NTT first caught the first time Nam Kham member it\u0027s a very exciting that I get to have her hands in replacing six of you I wanted to reflect a little bit on my Nam calm experiences so far and perhaps ask for some help going forward it has been a very very rewarding experience to be on the NomCom so far throughout my professional work I am mostly limited to the internet routing side of things and in interviewing the many candidates that have made themselves available to be considered candidates for various different boards I\u0027ve had a phenomenal insight into how the ITF works what I a bee does how I achieve works very very insightful and cool and in the current set of nominees there there it was a fantastic set of candidates available for aib positions if I look at i AST nominees for some of the positions it\u0027s it\u0027s fairly challenging to make good choices when there is a lack of choices and actually maybe I should now move to this community because the reason we have a lack of choices is that there has been a lack of nominations by you and me "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:29",
    "text": "so what is it we can do to encourage more participation in the leadership roles for the functions that need to be appointed to two people and also part of that process is that people leave feedback and I\u0027ve observed that many many people have provided feedback through online tool or conversations and always or coming to the NomCom office that is great I\u0027m very happy with that but I want us to think in the next 12 months how next year we can make sure that there is not only that there is actually more choice so we can make sure that we make the best possible choices thank you for your consideration thank you for your comments Phil Han Baker a situation arise in a different standards organization that has caused me some concern as to practice in ITF in particular I noticed that note well has no mention of antitrust and there are two reasons here one is the protection of the organization if things pan out as I expect them to do in that case which at this point I expect to become a federal case there will be fingers being pointed and it will become very serious and I think that it it behooves us to at least warn people that even if you\u0027re not officially speaking for your organization if you get up to a microphone and you say if your company offers this service to various people then we will destroy your business oh yes oh yes then that is not only putting your employer risk it is putting you at risk and I don\u0027t want to get into the details of that situation but I think that we need to take this seriously first let me say I\u0027m relieved that this is all happening in a different SDO that\u0027s very good news indeed second I\u0027d like to just point out that the the note well and the documents which it refers to are all actually published on the IETF stream and therefore it\u0027s really the IEEE ASG should take note of your comments the mic lines are open "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:29",
    "text": "is there anybody else with the comments or a question for the IV thank you very much we\u0027ll move on the LLC board come on up all right we\u0027re happy to take questions by st. John\u0027s just one quick question since we put in the new fair new rate structure how many of the early registrations represent people who didn\u0027t actually end up showing up do you have any idea what those numbers are I mean how much money did we take in just gratis that\u0027s a that\u0027s an excellent question that I don\u0027t think we know the immediate answer to so let us take a item to go investigate that Thanks thank you thank you yes yeah Brian carpenter um thanks for the the report earlier I\u0027m not trying to be provocative but as you know the the previous thing we had the AOC dug its own grave by getting far too deep into micromanagement so I\u0027d like to know now that you have a permanent executive director in place what the board is going to do to make sure he does the management and you do the strategy well I think that\u0027s are one of our key jobs is to make sure that that\u0027s the case and you know we\u0027ve said that those expectations with Jay from the start and I think it\u0027s going to be a regular topic of conversation to ensure that we are doing so you know I think certainly habits have to be set you know with the new executive director yeah Adam a bit of color on that Jay started four weeks ago and for the last three weeks I have consistently found myself saying please go ask Jay which has been delightful so hoping as we go forward Siobhan\u0027s ahead so I learned this ITF meeting that the one day guest pass program that allowed "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:29",
    "text": "local researchers and academics to attend the IETF for free for one day the program was discontinued and and as a co-chair of a research group we rely we have relied on this program to get local researchers to come and give presentations so I understand some of the reasons behind why that was why this was done just wondering why it was not announced and also wondering like if there is a plan for like having something similar because it is I feel like it is a goal of the ITF you know one of the goals we go to the reasons why we go to different venues is so that we can engage with the local community and I think you know professors and students are an important part of that so just wondering if there is a plan to either have something like it or reinstate it thank you for your question so it\u0027s true that we had to put the guest Day program on pause we were having some difficulty with people who were abusing the program for the purposes of being able to travel to a particular country and then they weren\u0027t actually local people they were just using it to get into the country and then not showing up at the IETF meeting so we had to make a decision on short order about that but it\u0027s it\u0027s under consideration for what to do in the future and you know we\u0027re hoping to find a way that we can accommodate something similar somehow but in the meantime we need to figure out how to not have it be abused in that way so it\u0027s it\u0027s not gone forever necessarily but we need to work out how to make it functional hi bob Hindon so when Jay did the presentation earlier about future meetings it went by so quickly so may have this wrong but it looked like there was not a meeting in Asia year after next just died see that right or maybe it\u0027s still back here no the year after that we\u0027re switching the rotation so we\u0027re switching Asia from the November to the March slot so basically a time of year shift for when the one one ones occur yeah so from from 2022 onward we\u0027re hoping to have Asia and the in the March slot from 2021 there will be no Asia meeting correct - in Europe one in the US right yeah we thought maybe there would have been like an email to the list about this or something okay yeah I mean because I thought we were gonna do Asia every year so the policy is to have roughly roughly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:29",
    "text": "equal allocations between the three regions but it also says that in any given year we might not make it to every region because of this kind of fluctuation so if you look at the meeting venue policy document that\u0027s that\u0027s what it expresses right but it will we catch up I\u0027m sorry will we catch up that would be - weezing stage in one year right I think the point is that over time we we aspire to hit each region roughly the same number of times so that\u0027s what we\u0027re attempting to do okay will you understand my comment yes I think we do it was sort of would have been nice if it was mentioned thank you hey Jason Elliot here I just wanted to thank the LLC for the opportunity to engage on the discussion about draft clear we gotta stop meeting like this which looks at investigating new modes for from eating it\u0027s that when we met I think I took two things from it the first is that J is gonna take on board to figure out some questions to ask that might might help us in the community deliberate about how we might meet differently or how much resources we\u0027re using as we meet second thing I took from that so that people know is that I continue to engage with this community so that maybe the community can bring forward approaches that they want to try over time and so I just want again one I think thank you guys for not forgetting about that and obviously you have very important things to do like hire J and I look forward to working on this problem so we understand our carbon footprint and understand how we can continue to work effectively maybe even by reducing our carbon footprint and I\u0027ll be talking more with everybody about this soon thank you okay great thank you very much appreciate it yeah you can come on up so for the is G open mic we\u0027re running a little experiment we\u0027re try to keep the questions and the answers short and focused so there\u0027s a timer right here we\u0027re gonna a lot two minutes per question and two minutes total for the answer from the stage we had signs we can see the timer but we have all kinds of analog mechanisms for keeping time "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:36",
    "text": "[Music] Adam can you start please Adam Roach art area director Benkei tuck security area director Alex Eman Nicosia - director chattering ibj rome engineer security area me I could live in transport Deborah guard routing area Barry liebe Hart area or on Kumari UPS area ELISA Cooper general area donors hopes suresh krisshnan internet era green and used by my last name to be the last one internet area ok the mic lines are open going once going twice [Applause] I will I will attempt not to use my full two minutes I\u0027m John Levine I have kind of a meta question here I have noticed I am using the mic perhaps I can shout out do it more loudly okay well there\u0027s 15 seconds out of the way my question is I\u0027m seeing a lot more tribalism that I have in the past and particularly in some of the some of the some of the working groups I\u0027m in it\u0027s it\u0027s very unfortunate that people seem to like you get people onto slate well the obvious places for example is dough I mean there are there are competing people who have very clear ideas of what the right answer is and and not a very not a very good I very not a very good handle on how long one reaches consensus about this and as I\u0027ve mentioned a few times before I know a lot of Quakers who have a process that everybody everybody with them describes it as as consensus and a key part of it is what they call standing aside which is saying you know you get kind of as close to it as close to it as an answer you get as you can and then use omit but it is important that you be able to say I am not thrilled with this answer but I don\u0027t hate it so much that I\u0027m that I\u0027m gonna kill it you know and this is different from rough consensus whatever rough consensus is basically somebody says we\u0027re close enough and the people who hate it too bad here we ask people specifically to say you know I am in the interests in the interest of the entire group you know I\u0027m standing back because it\u0027s more important the thing goes ahead and I\u0027m wondering you know have the rest of you noticed this and I\u0027m Chris Oh many of you have and if so is you know is there something is there any way we can kind of work on our process to try to make it more consensus II and perhaps "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:37",
    "text": "more productive in dealing with the very contentious topics that we are running into thank you very do you wanna answer I think we have to rely on the working group chairs to lead this and Pete Resnick has been having conversations with the working group chairs for instance today and the working group chairs lunch trying to help sort out how to call consensus and how to lead people into consensus and ELISA has been working on getting training for the working group chairs that we\u0027re going to be starting to set up soon so I guess that\u0027s my answer yeah instead of following on from that this sort of taking a step back or being willing to stand back and say it\u0027s more important than it goes ahead than that I get my way is something which needs to be learnt over time if you have some recommendations or suggestions where you see that working that you can send that people can sort of learn from I think would be really helpful often though I see people have incredibly strong views and so having somebody be willing to actually say you know I\u0027m willing to take a step back as tricky but you have to consent hints pointers that would be helpful yeah I think to answer the first half of your question yes I think more of us have seen that and another thing that I would add is that some of the steps that we\u0027re trying to take to help sort of improve the general conduct are related to things that we can do to get people to think about what are the actual screaming\u0027s and what is best for the intern as a whole and maybe felicitate a facilitate that\u0027s sort of standing back that you described okay thank you thank you Wester Tucker is a and I\u0027m here to answer John\u0027s question and I a number of you have heard this speech from me this week alone but the reality is is that we have a culture in this in the IGF where we desire to poke holes in somebody\u0027s technical statements and technical plans without really considering if there\u0027s any good parts you want to make use of and so rather than looking for the good parts we\u0027ll get a line of 20 people that want to you know poke a hole and often the same hole that the person before them you know just just found it does start with the working group chairs it does start with the iesg members and to talk to the person that asks the question about what can we do to get more appointees to the IHG members we need a better environment where people are rewarded for actually helping and actually participating as opposed to standing on two sides of offense and just refusing to even look over the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:37",
    "text": "fence to see the other side and whether the grass is even there that that\u0027s gonna take work not just from the ASG members not just from working for charities gonna take work from the whole community and and I encourage to go back to the NomCom person that was asking about you know how do we select who\u0027s going to be pointed into a position we need to select a culture that\u0027s going to be positive and constructive and not just destructive it\u0027s important to point out weaknesses in a technical argument it\u0027s also important to fix those technical weaknesses rather than just point about thank you two things I don\u0027t like the timer but that\u0027s not why I came up to talk about but I wanted to let you know so there was a disc recent discussion on the ITF lists about the role of area directors and how much work they have to do or didn\u0027t don\u0027t do or all of that and I thought that was interesting and you know as we here you can see from the NomCom report it\u0027s hard to fill your jobs so I\u0027d like to hear from you guys and yeah you don\u0027t need to do it in whatever the timer says but I\u0027d like to get your feedback on you know how how we can make this not such an impossible job so we get a bigger pool of people to select thank you so thank you for your question we had a discussion of this in the is G day before yesterday and we felt that the discussion list had gone in many different directions and that as a first step what we thought would be useful would be to just draw up a list and sort of categorize the various different parts of the problem and directions that this conversation had gone in there\u0027s also a lot of history here many eye issues have discussed this problem then faced with you know similar NomCom statistics so we thought as a baseline it might be useful to just outline what the set of issues are that have been raised and try to structure our own thinking and discussion that way instead of you know that the mailing list threads and another part of our discussion was also around the perception of how much time the ad roll takes and that although we disclosed this and the job descriptions and whatnot that it still might not be clear exactly what the range is of the amount of time that various different ATS dedicate to the job and do so successfully so that\u0027s another item that or one of the items that we might we could potentially try to clarify other people want to share their thoughts Suresh yeah thanks Bob so one of the things we noticed was that a lot of the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:38",
    "text": "things in there have been suggested and tried before as well so that\u0027s kind of why you want to like collect all those things and and talk about previous experiences on some of these things right like the directorate\u0027s like you know what worked what didn\u0027t work so we want to take some time to come up with a comprehensive answer over there on like what you think about what\u0027s come up there yeah and I would also add that the amount of work that it takes to be an ad is to a larger pan to a large extent dependent on what you want to make it take I mean if you don\u0027t feel a need to put in all of your time it\u0027s definitely possible to do the job in less time than some of us are putting ahead [Applause] any other questions all right thank you [Applause] yes letter e is over you "
  }
]