[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:51",
    "text": "yeah that looks it gets this not us and because i always was for an hour ah because I give you for this ring for my meeting set up my stuff then suddenly some other chest and said Oh what anybody didn\u0027t hear much walking to draw me in everything it\u0027s a very thick pencil um hi welcome to Friday this is the last official session of this ITF and things have started to fall apart slightly we have pencils for the blue sheets people kind of having a little bit of discussion up here well that\u0027s going on I\u0027m going to need to browbeat you for a little bit guess what for Magnus can guess what for go ahead and say it Magnus you know we\u0027re browbeating for note takers at former chair of the working group remembers very well I\u0027m not since you answered I\u0027m not going to try and force you who feels like they could write down this was decided along with a statement after I give up now if you\u0027re willing to edit it afterwards yes I will I will take it thank you as well as ours Olli consists of this was decided all right our contributor document author area director and the right reverend rescorla will take take charge of taking notes is there anybody in the jabber who is not like completely absorbed in eating there all right would you mind relaying anything from all right uh so now I\u0027m going to look at the [Music] this wait you have to go back a second because it\u0027s like some really strange aspect ratio since like this oh you saw him gone nuts in was like he really pace "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:52",
    "text": "was like eight feet tall on the pictures that was treat us okay all right well please don\u0027t touch the epson but I know we\u0027re all AV geeks we would like to talk to at least it\u0027s working now kind of a funky aspect ratio no well hum now if you have not seen the hope note well earlier in the week once again Reverend rescorla providing comedic relief in addition to note taking and adult supervision alright next um actually I think we should probably bash this agenda yet one more time and thank Alyssa and welcome our new ad right now because there\u0027s yet more gifts guys yeah for those of you playing the home game she said Richard will be so happy because richard has volunteered to be the Sherpa for all of the records she\u0027s received throughout the week could we come up and address the group for a second and then we\u0027ll have our new ad come up and address the note the chairs are playing for time because I you know I main presenter for this meeting is he\u0027s it was in the room yeah um thank you again RTC web working group for my additional gift um awesome I will need to invent another reason to travel with records future not that I\u0027m traveling this different because Richard is taking all of them um but yeah thnkx attend so much attention to detail always that\u0027s why documents have taken so long here and that\u0027s why you member at everything so thanks what our new ad like to address the group and and put in a request early for what gifts he\u0027d like when he\u0027s tired of us we we\u0027ve worked for three of you so far it\u0027s so I\u0027ve heard you say several times you\u0027re going to close by a Prague I just want to let you know that I\u0027m holding you to that and I\u0027m very happy to hear it so uh i would like to refresh your memory that we what we actually said was this was our last meeting in north america ah that that was the guarantee and that we hoped to close by Prague this is somewhat up to how well you browbeat your iesg colleagues when security considerations and other documents come through so you you get to have the help of our current deities that she hasn\u0027t actually left the iesg in that but we would love to close by prob do you like you want to say something awesome I don\u0027t know if we talked about this before but um I\u0027m going to continue to Shepherd the documents from this group "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:52",
    "text": "that are in the RFC editors Q and I HD evaluation which there are many yeah so just the oversea editors key so we get to share the pain of cluster 238 on with the circus seriously as a point of order I\u0027ll be taking notes in the etherpad so if you wish to assist or heckle or whatever that\u0027s we ok so our next is feck in WebRTC Justin would you approach the queue please I on okay not sure all my camera is not working here but I\u0027ll fix that in a minute I there\u0027s not a lot to say here on the FAQ document on these are the same slides that I presented in the last ITF meeting I got a number of good reviews on the document I won\u0027t read off all the bullet points here but basically this document is ready for last call incorporates the feedback to all the reviews that you know occurred over the last cycle encourage you to read it and then working or move to work group last call and sometimes any questions so could I have folks raised their hand who have read at least one version of this document please okay you\u0027ve been raised half a hand I don\u0027t know okay is there anybody who has an objection to taking this to working group last call now and since we\u0027re taking to working group last called now I would like a commitment for at least two people to do a thorough review you\u0027re all going to review it of course but two people to do a step-by-step review Magnus Oh Magnus Bernard and Moe we\u0027ve got three volunteers which I have said into the microphone so they\u0027re available in the recording okay thanks very much I Justin you might as well stay i believe you are our next presenter as well okay i switched the new set of eyes yeah that we slide should be up this one okay um don\u0027t you okay great so we had a nice discussion I in the last meeting about what do we you know this whole thing around getusermedia and what does "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:53",
    "text": "consent mean and all that sort of thing and there\u0027s a lot of discussion in the room and Martin gracefully accept the works or create a pull request and what happened over then the next the next iteration the document is that stuff all got cleaned up um you know the text that we could have agreed on the meeting around when where do we talk about consent and what sort of language especially the RFC 2119 language I know where does that end up going in the document that has all been fixed on the document now all that uses RC 2119 language throughout we making statements about okay thou must do this and that the other thing on the document now reads as a normative thing rather than as a best practices document which would which was its original intent that had been previously mentioned as a review comment and as all been fixed a few other review comments that came in around what is the exact definition of a proxy and you know in which cases does the VPN situation that sort be at this whole situat-- this whole problem you know is the more definition about that especially about the notion of tunnels and how it creates the potential problem for IP address linkage that now all been integrated into the document so the next thing is really work your class call and getting further reviews so once again a question to the group whose red base version of the document please raise your hand okay that\u0027s that\u0027s a little low so we really need folks to review this and can do a working group last call to initiate the review but I\u0027d like the least one or two more people to review it and say ready for working group last call who can commit to doing that in the next week or two one if they do they have one very small look a very quick read it is I mean it\u0027s like nine pages or something okay this no total it Mikey this is IP handling about all right okay if you if you scrape the boilerplate out of this this is like 45 pages please guys just all we\u0027re looking for is send it to the mailing list with ready for working group last call as soon as we see a couple of those who will omit the working group last phone okay but this is ok I think we have three volunteers now all right does it all right for bones he\u0027s great so as soon as a few of those come in will we\u0027ll start the process thank you ok that is everything "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:10",
    "text": "hey I\u0027m Ben Schwartz and this is returned next slide so it\u0027s been it may have been the long time so the last time you heard about return we haven\u0027t been talking about it a lot recently it\u0027s kind of a settled issue I think but just as a reminder about why we are talking about this at all our requirements document says that we have to be able to provide a mechanism for enterprise network operators to run all of their traffic to return server and we also already provide a method for application operators to run all of their traffic through a turn server so we need some description of what happens when both of these things are on at the same time return describes what you do in that case next slide it looks like this note that it looks a lot like the case where you\u0027re running everything through an HTTP proxy on enterprise network the only difference really is that you at least have the option to have an end-to-end UDP path which should be good for performance next okay return is the draft is referenced in a couple of places one of the places it\u0027s referenced is in tram in the turn auto-discovery draft which just says if you discover something to turn auto-discovery you should use it in a in a return like fashion next slide it\u0027s also referenced actually kind of all over the IP handling draft but here\u0027s the most substantive reference one thing I want to call out about this reference is that it describes a return proxy as configured for the interface so it reflects this idea that a return return might be something that\u0027s only configured for a single interface and of course that makes sense in the context of something like an enterprise proxy if you have a phone for example that\u0027s on an LTE network and it\u0027s on an enterprise why find out where then there might be a return proxy on the enterprise network that\u0027s only accessible on that through that interface so probably the configuration should be treated as associated with that interface okay next slide so this is the only change from return one to return to which i made like monday previously I was to try to describe how to deal with multiple interfaces I was referencing em music ice best interface that draft expired years ago and that hasn\u0027t seen any updates so I\u0027ve attempted to to bring in language that brings this into alignment with the IP handling draft and reference to FG handling draft instead but again this is "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:11",
    "text": "all just guidelines about how clients should behave when when put in the situation of having multiple turn servers and also some descriptions about if you\u0027re configuring a client is producing an interface for client configuration what kinds of functionality you need to support next slide so we want to shut down the working group then we need to do something with all the drafts I think this might be a good candidate for a last call but I defer to the experts okay once again we are looking to be working to see who is read at least one version of this draft okay okay so i think we\u0027ll do this the same thing here and and ask for a couple of volunteers to review it to indicate that they think it\u0027s ready for working group lasko just as a as a check it looked like Jonathan you and Martin were potential Stuckey\u0027s there can i ask you to take that token Duncan says he can take a look Martin is looking now if so it\u0027s be it is unnecessarily long it says the same thing in many different ways several times yeah so that the house Lee principal says that you should try and say things just once and not say them slightly differently in multiple places but we all understand the I did not have the time to write a sort specifications out here is a long one if folks can figure out things to to cut from this as part of your review because they are said adequately and succinctly elsewhere those are about valid review and there\u0027s a question from the driver about asking but implementation status anybody can say anything uh yeah this is as far as i know this is not something that is yet implemented you could say that that maybe implementations have been waiting to see how how auto-discovery turns out that\u0027s one possibility i would really like to to start writing code on this and maybe i\u0027ll get a chance to the next few months but I can\u0027t commit to it what what level of standardization you asking for I am not familiar enough with the process to know okay I would not be in favor of having approached standard that nobody appears to be able they so so I with that or other each other or other thing so I would note that the IP handling draft does refer to this multiple times so you probably want in your reviews of the IP handling draft see whether the IP hampering draft still works if he\u0027s our informational rather "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:11",
    "text": "than or experimental rather than proposed dangerous but I think that it probably does that it\u0027s worth working for taking a swing of it yeah not until sometime from from my reading of the IP handling draft the the references to this would be advisory at best so i think we probably get away with it this is also is there anybody here who\u0027s a tram are you also involved in for him for the other discovery okay so we will take an action I don\u0027t forget okay so we\u0027ll take an action item the chairs will take an action item please contact the folks over at ramp to make sure that if this goes to informational rather than yes that doesn\u0027t cause a problem they\u0027re out of discovery draft and you can go from your Bernard looks like you have a concern just a comment to say I think this does solve a real problem and if you look at some of the stats on what about you see connectivity failures there is kind of a an extra couple of percent in these enterprise kind of use cases and so and so it\u0027s important I think that eventually people have some guidance about what you\u0027re supposed to do about this and if this is informational it could create situations where you these failures could persist over time which is probably not a great idea so you know my guidance would be to choose something it\u0027s not this it has to be something else and if you think this is good why not make this the standard so I mean I have no just be me theatre people are actually going to implement it but I I don\u0027t want I don\u0027t want I my experience you know over the years has been that if no is implementing it the chance that is really not got a bunch of defects is pretty high so that\u0027s why objection all right I think realistically you either need something like this or I don\u0027t think the TLS candidate work is enough to actually fully address this problem so by itself I\u0027m not in any way arguing that you shouldn\u0027t do something like this you\u0027re saying it might it might be a standard than possibly the right thing to do is make it experimental and play with it and then upgrade it later rather than just make it informational where it can\u0027t go anywhere that would also be fine um i would also be i would also be on Brazil it\u0027s been a while since I read this but it seems like we could also punch it to tram and that we wouldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:12",
    "text": "have to worry about the problem of of the we\u0027re trying to call if it\u0027s a wormhole for closing the group down again I\u0027m not opposed as work at all and I\u0027m happy to see it advanced we at out low-level standardization obviously events the high level standardization if you burn implement the only thing I\u0027m posing is how little Saturday shin window got legs I mean I think there\u0027s a goal not only to close the group down but also to clear cluster 2 38 which is a part of and blocking part of so okay simul pebble has trench air we\u0027re also trying to close down our group Alyssa Cooper um you don\u0027t have to listen to my advice anymore but I wouldn\u0027t close this group before cluster t-38 is done so this I think what you really would say we\u0027re closing the group of so you\u0027re not going to meet again but the group should still be here to comment on documents as they elect the ISA to keep up with the rate we where I should be i\u0027ll be dealt with by we want to close the group it\u0027s not gonna be the IHG that\u0027s gonna be standing in the way of that Oh Martin Thompson given the level of connection between kosta to 3838 in this draft which basically comprises of the IP handling document I\u0027m wondering if it\u0027s possible to just find somewhere to break that connection the amount of text in the IP handling draft that relies on return is kind of small and I realize it it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of fundamental for the IP handling thing but can we talk about it in the abstract without talking about the specifics or something like that so a party speaking I would be very reluctant to attempt to hand wave that particular thing away since without an effective mechanism to do that I be handling isn\u0027t even advice it\u0027s just theoretical music little is there some concrete things in there that we were doing i mean this this really only touches on one one of the aspects of the IP handling document and if if the if the discussion was in the abstract proxies and then this talks specifically about the IP handling draft and says this defines a proxy as the IP handling draft defines it then we sort of reverse the order of the dependency and this then pops out of the closet we may be over engineering a problem that doesn\u0027t it this year I actually it looks like an IP handling it\u0027s an informational reference anyway I don\u0027t think this is part of cluster 238 they walk right and I the ITRC editor might "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:15",
    "text": "consider it as such I just have to remind them they are not that\u0027s informational but yeah we may have a messed up at some other doc but we can check the references are cracked but I thought the key thing I heard was we all want this work to move forward and there was some question whether it should be experimental or ps and that was completely dependent on where the implementation status was at the time and when we get a little bit farther out or maybe like when we finish working or how about during working group last call we determine whether we want to change the status to experimental does that sound like a reasonable conclusion yep Ivan looked at the document in a while but once I\u0027ve reviewed it i\u0027ll have an opinion on that and we can we can just go to that out but i think we\u0027re starting to engineer a problem that might not exist for ourselves here fine that\u0027s that\u0027s right we can we waste the time we have available yes but please let Harold hood hide all this jump I checked it to all bull bull drafts with our with our receiver in the names there are two differences both very informative I did not check the tram drafts I believe that the reference from the tram draft is also marked a marked informative okay and i would buy then tripping but transports references the tram draft but the tram draft it\u0027s informational a tram draft I believe it\u0027s marcus i am just looking at my dependency graph here i\u0027m ninety-nine arm ninety percent sure that the transitive closure it\u0027s not normative anywhere I if there are no more question so Magnus do were you about to make you look like you\u0027re about them okay so let\u0027s go back to the Eyrie we had before where we\u0027re looking for a couple of folks on the list to say yep this is ready for working group last call just to get a little bit of review under belts before we take it to the final review at that point during final review we will seek review from tram and from other working groups at the same time just to make sure that we\u0027re getting kind of that early cross cross review and hopefully we can do that relatively quickly if folks can get the yep ready for blast hole buttons pressed all right if you\u0027re willing to review this please ooh we already have volunteers and one Thompson and otherwise okay Bernard can I ask you to volunteer to read this as well and Bernardo Bova because for not clearly consistent okay so there was a very late agenda bash that we were going to do if time allows a gentleman he\u0027s been sitting the back here wanted to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:16",
    "text": "present some work on something called oars so this is not a work item at the working group but it is RTC web related if folks over them to a friend will be a fun I\u0027m estate something else yeah these monsters I have another question and what\u0027s the state just so secured architecture and security so those have to go back through working group last hole they went through a working group last call Oh some time ago now they need to be updated first they have to be alive yes the stages of those is that boring someone else doing them um I will do them once uh what once J set and TLS have both gone to public and I believe they said now is almost a program if not a shi\u0027ite public and it\u0027s at the working group consensus awaiting right up rightly so just once I no longer to do anything unless your documents that I all I will attend to these some I also like to pick them up I would appreciate that as well so I guess that\u0027s that\u0027s a question if there anybody who\u0027s interested in joining ecker as an editor of these to finish though the this part of the process that\u0027s right oh yeah okay get together with Decker and fucked in a little bit about what that anything okay okay so the next step this sort of be ended the agenda it folks who have planes to catch you can go otherwise the gentleman who wanted to talk about oars would you like to come up with your slides and we\u0027ll see if the books are interested in hearing that if you go away okay what which one of us did you send it oh sorry you sent de list okay so for those of you who have your email open this also went for the list a second [Music] "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:25",
    "text": "no se yeah okay sounds here 40 was the opportunity to operate our chapter you know our dr. Connelly go to the first first of his life you know the operator reached the research is acting writing is another solution for the research for the web RTC okay next you know this is the general sub summary for the currency curve RTC you know we renew the icy stunts and the time it is concluded many rc2 salut tous all the different scenarios next on the country stone 20 Parliament synergies like the graph would elicit here you know although the p2p communication unified the paid wave Archie crying the butter the stone console must be deployed by every way web application provider under for our search brother he healthy play Department many breast device it has the Zidian function to do the net religious networker so we see coming utilizing to provide the utility unified Stanton infrastructure with WebRTC application provider so next the motivation for initial teaser and I just said the application writer need to deploy that answer individually which the important because they must tell you is a large amount over the traffic and the and the central I the concern of mine called the indecent the traffic pasta and the surgery is that concern you to do a large amount of daily access the another problem we held a dedicated the solution for different requirement because the inflamed when he\u0027s a very complicated because for example religiously based the kraang to kraang communication ipv6 or horse or mobility different I receipt was talkativeness analysis next so we think we can proper the US House architecture like ADHD since this graph so we utilize the tea steeper decisions device in our network and the central control amo by the release selector so while it is greater we can provide the service for different IP provider the main propyl properly the the operator can provide a unified the delivery for dr. and the APB provider need not care about the complex tongue stone I see single protease under the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:26",
    "text": "appointment this is a general communication presidio the main staple for this communication is the first the communication client should get the release director from the AP provider and then they can get the delay device why is Alyssa Denker so lekha after that they can send as the couple on couple command with the lace rector that\u0027s the resistor to build the methylene haber on the selected Lisa Lisa Lisa so all these complex tingling on phinney an unfinished that you between the RS and the city enjoys the ed powers are just into character DeLeo tease and the seeking of this and get the reflex orders of the chili and to RS this is the general communication procedure next so we also compare the different point of view stone cancer and also you know currently turn stone I see use a different 30 days for every client are an hour\u0027s doctor be allocated the every client under one Lily the same old Leo days and the currently the solution and Tunstall Isis Rosa nudity from the single proteins and potential Presidio and they are ours our Austrian we use the same signal process and get a transfer procedure and the sort of difference is the duly-elected T season it Tom while every client in kindness Rosa value in Austria and the newly selection done by the detector which held the whole system views and the necessary singhania with not currently we require about her about eight message to finish such a function sir but all in all we need only to kind of Singhania to finish the work so we also consider the recent with the constant IC resync also is not in him to be unholy for alternative holding hands down I say we consider it leader and complementary solution for the SP solar power the public criticism and we have implemented SDK fulfilled your tcp communication procedure under oath architecture the UDP communication project in the same and watching her in our we can finish the any con companies and possibility from different organs family you know the client can be run to the ivories for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:26",
    "text": "our IP 6 or QX the communication procedure is the same thanks so next up we also look some feedback from the RTC web and from the IP provider so we either use for work walk off before we get to the micron just a clarifying question from from the perspective of a chair reading through this dist is not in fact look like it\u0027s specific to web RTC in any way that it looks like it\u0027s something that generalized mechanism related to the behaved mechanisms like some turn and ice is there anything in this that I\u0027m missing that that is in fact specific to WebRTC maybe there are some or this is not messager for liberty the client will call it van it should be the client contact with the RS are releasably Lisa were there is a mode is no not easy okay so this is just a clarify Batman it sounds like if this were specified somewhere then Webber he seen or RTC web is working group might consider whether or not to adopt the mechanism but developing the mechanism inside RTC web does not seem like it\u0027s unchartered for us ah so it\u0027s always useful to know what people are thinking about in this area and since we had some extra time if you\u0027re looking to buy appreciate your taking the time to develop it and happy to take your questions of the night but but please understand that you don\u0027t believe it\u0027s unchartered I know I know you know the detailed and proceed europe between the artists and the city out of the scope of our i know but they\u0027re there are some additional there may exist some decent no mercy to the web RTC client and the release elector you know can\u0027t really sing with the clients to the same as a couple message to the desert her to tell Dad elicitor to help them to the other the communication channel this is a loved one kind of the changes to the web RTC client maybe and so people take their comment from the microphone can you go back to your diagram with the residues list yeah right right so for the specific case of WebRTC why does require any standardization at all Amy you already have a web app it\u0027s already talking to that provider and that provider already knows your server reflects address because that\u0027s how you came in for TCP so why doesn\u0027t he simply cut in the really selector get the get the correct coordinates for the relay and hand them down to you as if as it as if as if they were his own his own relays sure I I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:33",
    "text": "don\u0027t know but like that clearly is on the clear let us go for it is you up on I mean I\u0027m assuming they have some prior i was doing they have some business arrangement so i\u0027m assuming that the RS publishes on so i guess i don\u0027t understand why in the case of WebRTC with this require any standardization whatsoever yeah so point is is that from the perspective of the browser which is the thing we\u0027re standardizing here the this is merely another ice server and so the communication channel to which you need to do is some private communication channel between the app provider and the relay selector but once you\u0027ve done that you simply provide the coordinates of the relay to the host as if they were your own the update of RCC I chain you to the procedure leave so I have trained you the change changes slide a little ballet not happy in a country currently the AP product did not and you know the interactive is iris today only the web client no I think Justin\u0027s going to try to answer this question perhaps I see him in the cube he\u0027s on his way this is very small I green so I you know agent and I have talked about this this draft you know I think that there\u0027s some interesting things here I agree that is trying to sort of end the work in this working group I\u0027m not sure this is the right place for it and I\u0027m not sure that I you know there\u0027s any actual mechanisms hear their specific to our key sequel I I think that there may be need for some work on the stun side of things small small work there and so I think that the ice working group might ultimately be you know the funnel home for this but I one thing I\u0027m not clear about is like the the stun updates that happen in tram or is that happening in ice because I know tram is also trying to close down and so if he did any new stun message like where would that go the way to me that the trim chair has as left with open mostly I agree with what ecker so they could probably do most of this debate did you realize that you can already poked in the eye servers that the you can really give what I servers you want to use from current website to see implementations and specs so the only problem is how did you discover RS in the first place so what\u0027s your current protocol for RS discovery is it automatic or is there some pre "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:33",
    "text": "reconfiguration of app providers to two carriers that require the condo data we see the apt pro lidar sure to hold the little piece off Larry\u0027s it is to a protocol or a configuration this is a levy configure easily I mean it in a I\u0027ll cover the scope a power be stopped ok if it\u0027s just configuration then this is already possible today because look in the world can just provide this configuration and pick the real a selector you know Kanye evil look on client Evancho communicate that way first day master DG sterculia ipv server so i think at the decision process of the account get to the leo and the list of its elderly relatives are exid all this you know if we we must the first of the gist under do you know these the protest we can get to the obvious over our eyes even the kind of final RS then the following process can be pro can be continued it is same as a pretty configuration data roche first speaking is an individual i think this is a very interesting problem sped this is this is a little corner of a very interesting problem space which is carrier assisted nat traversal and this solves a small portion of it i think i mean i would like to see the problem sort of treated as a larger space where you try to address more issues than this for example the way that I look at this looks like it only works like if you have two people within a single service provider which is a good thing to fix but I also think that we probably want to address situation where you have people between service providers and aren\u0027t trombone in through a turn the server like way off in some application providers domain so I think that it would be good to sort of back up and look at the problem space edit you know is a bigger thing and then start looking at solutions to address the problems in that space switching to my area director had what I said off the microphone just want it here on the record I think this is the sort of thing we probably should take to dispatch so we do have the right people in the room we have one more comment I\u0027m going to echo some stuff to adam said I think this is there\u0027s a larger issue here that we need to take a look at and I think to a certain extent this actually overlaps in some degree with the sum of the stuff that\u0027s been done with enterprise border turn support and so forth you let you you know you can consider an a service provider to residential service provider and other service friars to be very similar to it into an enterprise border and you could provide turn turn servers at that enterprise at that ISPs border "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:38",
    "text": "so I think they\u0027re like I said a larger discussion of the large issues need to be made and then that once we\u0027ve broken that down I think we\u0027ll have a better idea of what actually needs to get done so I\u0027m an agreement with with him there and I think that should occur somewhere and it I would imagine dispatches a good place sorry miss gravely just stuck it with a very simple scenario for committing a crime had lucky to you the simple sorry spider we also consider reason the client located in different service provider it is usually in some tunnel Hannah Presidio to make the communication hyper they have we can even become ill such a solution next video later for the more general maggiano\u0027s in our own and see is just around one horse town okay I think you let the feedback in the room that the next step would be to consider it more generally and pay yeah yeah yeah so heavily okay I think that wraps up our meeting and so many of its head wraps up the ITF thank you all for coming whether in person or virtually and we\u0027ll see you on the list circuito sister Phoebe I was going to fall in errata making sure that it\u0027s it\u0027s right before filing the key lifetime says to to the 31 I think this is the bug and it supposed to go to 48 for RTP and 22 the 31 for srt-4 rtcp i think is just an oversight yoosh a steam yeah I tried to ask Dave and I honestly I haven\u0027t worked on avalon in irvine right that\u0027s probably right so i\u0027ll give you the two second version those limits only come from the IV construction has up into at the underlying cipher or the case great it\u0027s just the ID construction then in RTP the IV is the sequence number on the rock that\u0027s just 48 bits in rtcp it\u0027s a 31 bit so this sounds right to me but I\u0027d appreciate it if you\u0027d actually send me an email because I\u0027m too tired but I sent the apt but I\u0027ll "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:38",
    "text": "looks crazy you "
  }
]