[
  {
    "startTime": "00:01:48",
    "text": "yeah alright everyone welcome to PIM Mike could not be here today he\u0027s helping out remotely are you there mark Mike hello yep yeah so I\u0027ll try to share this but Mike will jump in when when they can and he\u0027ll also your presentation later so this is our yeah actually before we start we need a minute taker and one willing to take minutes you don\u0027t have to take like detailed minutes just like what decisions are made and how many people are voting for what when we have to do any worse thing okay I have to try - okay great okay thank you I\u0027ll try to take notes while you are with something so okay thank you that\u0027s great all right then it can get started so this is the note well that you should all have seen before and we did if you haven\u0027t also send out the pass of the blue sheets here okay so this is our agenda today does that look good did I miss any requests I hope not you have plenty of time today is so I gave everyone a few minutes extra but we\u0027ll see you\u0027ll probably use all the time we have all right let\u0027s get started done so first of the agenda is Greg I\u0027m sorry to multi-point BFD don\u0027t wait sorry I need to go through the working group status first then they will start on the presentations all right let\u0027s do this so we have a lot of yang models the progress is a little bit slow I should say people have done a great job on the drafts with your little slow at getting them published we have two drafts now that are in the arms he had a thirst queue I think you\u0027re stuck there just because you\u0027re waiting on other young model drafts to be finished with some of the references to other other young drafts so they will go as a whole as a group from the editor to be published so that\u0027s the PIM draft on the IGMP MLB Draft you also have two more drafts MSTP and our MP Emily snipping "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:50",
    "text": "I was trying to get them published it took some time to get everyone to respond whether they\u0027re sending IPR and stuff like that but now I got all the responses on either so IPR anything so I\u0027ll try to request publishing in a week or two then we have some other drafts we have dr log balancing publication was requested for that alvaro or ID reviewed that and had a good amount of comments so as some of the one of the offers I will try to address the comments and I think they\u0027re just minor things but if there\u0027s anything bigger we\u0027ll take it to the to the mailing list so that you all get a chance to see what\u0027s going on and if you agree with the changes that are being considered there\u0027s a Java before prefix or ipv6 next hop that has been stuck forever as one of the offers that\u0027s mainly my fault try to get back to that this is a dr improvement draft we it passed working group last call but last meeting we agreed that it should have a little bit of text explaining why this is different from the other dr draft that we have been discussing in the working group so yes I suggested some text and if the offers are the working group or happy with that we can be long or we can discuss of course what what we want to do but it\u0027s it\u0027s more or less ready to be published or at least go to the is G then we have an explicit tracking draft that we will need to look into again and see you what to do about it whether we want to progress that really want to maybe change the internet status but at least for now that\u0027s not being worked on [Music] we have a pin wizard bits draft it passed workgroup last call and Billy Mike is about to request application for that there\u0027s two drafts discussed this meet meeting non-registered packing and BFD point-to-point mode use cases that\u0027s all all I had for status one last slide we haven\u0027t talked about this in a little while apart maybe bring it up again now so we talked a little bit a couple of meetings ago about implementation requirements and how different working groups have different requirements and we haven\u0027t really had any requirements of all in this working group and yeah we talked about this a little bit and at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:51",
    "text": "least my feeling is that we are fairly happy about that what Mike and I photo is that it might be good that at least the chairs ask if there are any implementations and if people not know about implementations when they you know when you finish off the draft and request publication it might be nice to have a section in there saying something about implementations if you actually are are aware already so no requirements but this may be nice that we as a group now if but know about what implementation status is if we are aware of it does that sound reasonable or any comments on that so no formal requirements just good if we tell each other if you\u0027re aware of anything so basically what we\u0027re aiming for is at least that as as chairs as chairs that we try to ask about implementations but also maybe that documents can mention implementations but you won\u0027t go any further up towards any requirements unless people want that all right then I think we can start with our first presentation yeah it\u0027s right there it\u0027s about there yeah okay yeah just a moment to bring it into presentation about here yes thank you okay okay so this is update to the draft that we discussed and during our discussion the recommendation was to make it more generic so this is to reflect what we have done and just to recapture the proposed solution is to use BFD for multi-point or referred to as point to multi-point VFD to track to enable in sm routers of over shared segments to track status of the router which takes unroll as a head end of a point-to-multipoint BFD session primarily we see that as the benefit to track the status of dr and possibly be there so the mechanics works that the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:52",
    "text": "router that we want to track status adds optional POV it advertises its locally assigned 32 unsigned integer as its discriminator there are specifics of point to multi-point BFD comparing to the classical BFD defined in RFC 58 8 is that there is no three-way handshake so there be if these systems do not exchange there are discriminated values and thus the router that receives VFD control packet cannot do multiplex give these sessions based on its local discriminator value which is in packet placed in a euro discriminator field in point-to-multipoint BMD if this session or the state machine has changed and it immediately progresses actually it starts from the Upstate from the point of view of the head end and head and periodically transmits PFD control packets with the euro discriminator field of zero so multi-point tails cannot different the multiplex different DVD sessions are based on your discriminator field so thus we need the mechanism that boot straps are the point-to-multipoint session by transmitting the my discriminator from the head and two tails and once the tail receives my discriminator and if it\u0027s configured to participate in tracking the status of this PM sm node then it must start with this session as a multi ponytail and the multiplex using my discriminator source IP address and the multicast distribution tree that in it receives on so what we specified is that we\u0027re basically the specification only covers the RFC and did ER improvement draft that gr must include beef DTO v in its team hello message and the TV must be included after they are addressed govt and BTR is recommended so basically recommended is identical to shoot to include b FD t le in PM "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:54",
    "text": "holo-message and if included if to be included then it must follow after BTR address tod so we welcome comments and we think that we are ready for consideration of the last call quick comments the doctor is called something news cases but in reality you\u0027re specifying something sure well yeah the tail the document might be a little bit not not not that good you know lack of creativity at the moment I just read I haven\u0027t read the whole thing I just read the introduction mm-hmm or maybe the abstract says that the enhancement is an optional enhancement yeah to pin okay good so the draft currently says it updates so in turn 61 so don\u0027t put that okay I think you\u0027re right I think it was oversight and it should not yeah actually sorry just from the sentence you said just because it\u0027s optional doesn\u0027t mean it cannot be an update right so I didn\u0027t quite get the semantics of what you\u0027re trying to do okay so again it is not completely clear to everyone what updates means and in general what most people use it for is for an actual formal update to the updated RFC so what it usually means is that if I\u0027m updating the pinyin specification I\u0027m actually saying this should be there with the intent that if I\u0027m implementing that they spin the specification I have to do this again this optional then that probably shouldn\u0027t be there yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s clearly optional and this is an extension so whether go into the story of ICS process it\u0027s not clear and so there\u0027s been some discussion in the eighties you have lists that I\u0027m sure all of you have enjoyed about what this updates really means there is a new proposal that we are putting together that probably will be a draft release next week there actually is going to get rid of updates so that it\u0027s actually clear and so there\u0027s going to be a new tag that says I think the name is something like immense or something like that where it actually means this is a change the base specification must use this new thing you might be like a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:57",
    "text": "parent and child related to distant relative so there\u0027s 3d tags one that\u0027s gonna say I think it\u0027s called the men\u0027s so that the base specification must use this extension not there\u0027s another one there is extends or something like this so that\u0027s how you do it something optional you\u0027re extending the protocol you\u0027re adding something new or whatever and so we it is useful to be able to tie those two together right so that if you\u0027re doing the base expect maybe you want to see what other things are extensions so you can do that and then there\u0027s a third one which I think it\u0027s going to be called something like see also or something so that you\u0027re saying well this is not an extension this is not a mandatory thing but it would be nice if you actually looked at that as well and the reason motors would do that is because those types of those three different types of applications where what people were using in some cases when we talk about updates and so we ended up with long threads so necessary threads and stuff just discussing what this really mean and your there are examples of publisher RFC\u0027s that I should use updates and those three weights of these and probably in other ways so you know for now I guess we\u0027re saying updates as the formal you must do this to do whatever the other this and soon I don\u0027t know hopefully we can get that through community and everything else soon we\u0027ll have those other tags yeah I\u0027ve told the sacred and so the the only reason right now why you really would say you must do something is if it incurs a backward incompatibility right yeah sure in general yes if you\u0027re actually changing something that you wouldn\u0027t be compatible or if you making a change to the base specification that you think is really really important for everyone to use then you would do that for the other normal cases of your change in the registries for example you define some registries you not actually changing the protocol but you just find some registers registries through a in it and now you\u0027re changing those registries not assigning a new clones but now you\u0027re saying instead of using specification required I now want to use ATF review or whatever then there\u0027s a change it\u0027s not change to the protocol but it change to the I have a couple of comments some the draft just one clarification first this is already a working group document yes so that name to draft them you have there is the old one it\u0027s yeah I know preparing slides oops honoring it is a working group draft yes I have a more important technical comment oh so you are saying on this slide here right that the deed that be F DT L we must come after the other yes "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "and I would say in general today we don\u0027t have any requirements on ordering for hello options and I think many implementations just kind of parse all of them first mm-hmm and then afterwards Jan so ok be better to just say that both be present or something yeah okay so okay I will reward so that both must be present but then I have one more comment though there are implementations today using EFT regular point-to-point BFD with him mmm-hmm for you know quickly find out that the dr has gone away so i feel like you know what is in this draft is useful also in the pennant of the dr increment draft so I think at least my opinion is that it will be good to allow people to use this hello option also with regardless so dr improvement to use basically you know advertise my discriminator yeah but yeah the thing is that the this DF DT of V discriminator is needed only if we use a point-to-multipoint BF d if someone is using RFC 58 80 then or 51 probably because it\u0027s a single hop use case then there is no need to bootstrap so sorry what I mean is it can be useful to use announce your discriminator even if you\u0027re not implementing the pin bre improvement draft oh yes and that\u0027s i think that we\u0027ll probably have this discussion later during the meeting because I read their other draft and I have couple questions about it so how to work and because their procedure is a little bit different from the procedure and then the question is since there is no explicit advertisement of dr address and v dr address so if how it will be interpreted BF d TLV i need to might be discuss it with offers of that other draft so at least you do many of you always to the re-election with existing in sparse mode so one router one neighbor is regarded as being the dr yeah but what will happen so if there are more than one router requested to be to become multi point head so and start and sends its beef DTO V so we expect that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:23:00",
    "text": "others will monitor it so basically then okay let me think about location yep okay okay any other comments so do people have any thoughts about working group last call this my feeling is that yeah there might be worth thinking a little bit about okay sure these details but do people think it\u0027s ready otherwise so any any thoughts on whether should go to last call shortly so once if we work out these details before the next IDF meeting we should attentively consider a last call before an excite us people think how our update what we agreed to change remove requirement of ordering but Jessie might be present and then I will think about how it interacts with this another draft yeah okay so yeah we\u0027ll have some discussion on the mailing list and also check on the list later if it can go to last caller okay thank you okay thanks like stop this Hong ji let\u0027s see if I can find it here it\u0027s this colossal no everyone my name is Hong ji I am from erikson now let me introduce um let me introduce some updates about the IGMP Amardeep rousey yamato this is a server version for the presentation after after last the ITF meeting we have about two more quarters money is from cisco and maja shades from to infer now we have totally file all sirs camera covers the five different winners ericsson bottom and walk away Cisco and juniper just update one we obtains a constraint to make sure the upstream interface for our MV MLD policy should "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "not be configured pimp in the old version we have already higher this constraint but it has some limitation in this in the current version we have solved this limitation with the not function in the as pass and they true we have added the fever Fisher I gem he foxy to make the implementation more flexible this is the whole hierarchy for the agency policy we augment the conference hall call as continue a GMP policy under the identify see it has a list of interfaces similarly we also add the official MLD proxy this is a whole hierarchy for the MLD proxy this is the common scenario for the agency policy we generally we all configure the agency policy on the upstream interface once - but the other two interfaces are connected to the receivers this is the configuration data for the IGMP proxy we set the type of the contrary palcohol IGMP foxy and the interface name is 1/1 and the name field enable field is that true there is still some s all comments Mahima is the author of the RC is 1 \u0026 4 hey thinks that the IGMP prossimo do for the pic take a call me into a gmpm early interworking function in RFC is 1 1 for FC 8 1 for provide a solution for the ipv4 multicast service to the ipv4 multicast clients through the ipv6 multicast networks this new function it combines the EMP policy function and the address synthesizing operations this is the Padre in the RFC 8 1 \u0026 4 but I think it is not proper to consider it when designing the HMP falsey llamado because I think I generally in the working "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:29:00",
    "text": "function it\u0027s just the the application of the edge MPI morality policy hmm what do you think that my staff I would like to apply for the local ocean and welcome more comments Thanks yeah so I guess I have a comment on the 80 114 support I don\u0027t have a strong feeling either way but I\u0027m not sure how many implementations there are all that and I guess the yang mellows most attractive or should they address the things that that most implementations have implemented right but but yeah I guess there\u0027s yeah we\u0027re just talking about that adoption now so we have time to discuss that further okay okay so I think okay well I mean yeah if somebody like Mohammed has opinions about the adoption if it\u0027s inclusive of theta or not I would say you know if there is a proposal how it should be done that makes it clear that if you don\u0027t implement that function there is no problem to express that in the model and it would otherwise work I think it could well be in scope right so just when we\u0027re doing the adoption right it would be good to have an opinion off whether that could be in scope or if people really don\u0027t want it here let\u0027s go yeah it\u0027ll be good to know more understand better about this involved yeah so I think we we Morris agree yeah I think they agreed last meeting last ITF meeting to do an adoption call I\u0027m not sure about that but I think we did that but they never actually did the adoption call sorry about that are people finally the stealing another adoption call on the list this time so I know not that many people read the yang model drafts unfortunately but can I see how many people have read this draft yeah it\u0027s just a couple of people at least one of them is one of the authors but yeah unless people have any strong feelings either way against or in in the favored adoption I think well I\u0027ll just do an adoption call on the list and see what people think we have at least support from five different vendors it seems so that\u0027s pretty good all right so do an adoption call "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "analysts okay thank you okay next is RAM key on bail registered patent good afternoon everyone thanks food opps need to present the draft so the draft had been presented in multiple ideas before so so in a nutshell the draft speaks about how to pack null registers in a single message whenever possible so there are a couple of additions were done before in the prog ietf but after that there\u0027s demo additions so we are looking like I said ready for last group call yeah any comments yeah so how many people read this draft it hasn\u0027t changed in and I\u0027m on ITF so can I see if you read this draft before the previous ITF for since that mmm one person two people read it three people okay any any force on whether we should do a working group last call do you see any issues or things that are missing from the draft I think we\u0027ll do our working group last call them I think often we need to do a last call just to get people to read the draft which is unfortunate but I think we\u0027ll do that if yeah if you find any issues during the last call of course we\u0027ll work on those and we also need people to voice their support oh and working group last call it\u0027s not enough to not hear any comment from people law rights both do a working last call and hopefully some of your people will help us out read the draft and provide comments all right okay thanks so yeah we\u0027ll do our last call on the lists then we got yeah I\u0027ve got one more draft let\u0027s see if I can find the slides "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:35:10",
    "text": "yeah so this traffic box talks about how to distribute the user configured SSN ranges in an l2 Network so this is necessary because not have consistent as is some operation so the starchy v2 or v3 joins for the elements need to be discarded by the routers and the switches so if it doesn\u0027t discard those groups starts cooperating in veto compatible mode so what happens is if you get a leave for those groups and the router may send a v2 query to the horse so the SSM hosts so the SLM host will think that the router is operating in a v2 mode and it will downgrade itself to the way to operation so the SSM hosts will fail in will fail so they no longer send the viiiage joins so the draft proposes to distribute the SSM ranges in a film hello option so that the l2 switches can learn about this user configured SSM ranges and draft the reports for the v2 groups so so this this will ensure like this is consistent in the network and and also it was dynamics we know enough like going and configure a CLI on every l2 box yeah so that\u0027s this raft so in comments on it so is this implying that the SSM range is named out of Lenny Giuliano Jennifer um is this assuming that the SSM range that has been configured for something other than 230 2/8 yeah so okay the draft allows it to be used or configured for we - how how widely deployed is people do it configuring a different range other than 232 /e I\u0027ve seen few customers doing it but I don\u0027t know exactly like what is the how many customers do for the customers who do do it would this be applicable meaning are they doing it for strange odd reasons that might not have they might not have actual end users running IGMP that would be dousing each other because they have different SSM ranges or is that too difficult to speculate I don\u0027t know I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:10",
    "text": "bought that like so there are most of the users use the 232 range but there are there is a possibility of customers using to that user configured range or the network when you can specify in the host stack as well so they want to use this as a sim range so I\u0027ve seen few customers using it and I\u0027ve seen one of the customer running into this problem where the esses impose were stopped working after it needs spin for Deutsche Telekom Lenny to your question there\u0027s actually a good reason for using a different range than in SSM 32 range which is due to a strange behavior in the linux kernel so if you have a device on your home network which sends out an IP version 2 message and govern IGMP version 3 s sm device also on there it for its specs sometimes to IGMP version 3 with a SM so with stock emoji at least we have the situation yes and that\u0027s in 232 and as long as it is in 232 your home gateway will discount a packet and if you move there the range outside of 232 you don\u0027t have that issue anymore because the home gateway says this is not a necessary so that\u0027s fine tell us Eckert I think that there is a good reason why we have administrative scope multicast and company video announcement where the boss tells all the secrets only to the employees right so I don\u0027t want to have SM not be able to do that I know I know we should all stop using ipv4 completely and go to v6 where the problem solved because we have all the administrative scopes but for the few billions of us left that you know operate on before addresses at least this has been given out you know to 39.2 32 as a recommendation to configure forever i I\u0027ve seen a lot of networks that just have also their to only that don\u0027t even have layer 3 large switch networks right three tiers broadband aggregation networks you may not even have a pin router so I strongly suggest to figure out if you cannot also do that as an IP extension yeah so let the driver mentions that part as well to have a high jumping message right to distribute this ranges from the courier yeah yet if that would have been clear in the title or so I I hope I didn\u0027t overlook it in what you said but if there was an option to have it in a pure layer 2 yeah yeah whatever hello option or whatever it goes in an IP packet I haven\u0027t thought what\u0027s the best place but if we have a solution that works without him then acting it\u0027s but yeah some I\u0027m a quaver all the drafts speaking as an offer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:41:11",
    "text": "I believe our people doing SSM inside 239 because they want to do sculpt as a semi that it it\u0027s not leaking outside their domain which is yeah pretty much what Tyler said I wonder a bit if it would be useful in maybe I\u0027m buddy I know to have some draft or like operational issues to the SSM deploying SSM and pleased is this I know but at least is this this fallback is one of those issues and one problem are seen is in the our GPS back it says you should fall back to star G but then you have the s of this SSM draft that says you should must not or should not fall back but if we are implemented idmp draft and not sort of the SSM draft you might claim your compliance this this is simple enough is it I mean sure present in and only but I just have this is it as a document in him go forward Fisher don\u0027t regardless regardless of this document that one if it would be helpful to discuss operational issues and then bounty or we can discuss the not all I\u0027m saying is that it\u0027s this is two or three paragraphs to explain the examples this can all be in one document yeah take off load from the ITF just have a single document that also has a paragraph on the operational reason why we need this right so I think we\u0027ve often enough run into you know legacy receivers that are just sending the group address and then basically all the SSM receivers are screwed right now all the receivers group because you needed to have the source address to be handed up whether it\u0027s being handed up by a proxying the router or a GMP proxy or or by a pimp router so I think it\u0027s not too difficult to describe the operational things also the protocols running how many people read this draft three people yeah so I think it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s bit too early to do an adoption call today usually we need a couple ITF small s what is one ITF for people to have read read address for this work okay yeah sorry I have one person supporting it yeah I would say please read the draft please comment on on the list if you have any questions and it\u0027s one of the offers yeah we offer to also try to start a thread on a mailing list and get some input and hopefully by next ITF several people will be familiar with this and we can see how to proceed okay "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:11",
    "text": "all right okay thanks thanks my cue and next if you can hear me yeah I can hear you can you start yeah let me just get the slides alright you\u0027re good to go okay so this draft is something that how you and I put together to specify requirements of on path telemetry for multicast traffic there are a few telemetry solutions out there such as I am and PBT that are being worked on in the AI ppm working group and we see that there\u0027s a seems to be a lacking of support for multicast to traffic in that kind of an environment so we put this together we are presenting it here just kind of to socialize it and next ITF we will likely ask for time which is limited in the AI ppm working group but being that this group is multicast of experts and maybe you have already thought about this that maybe you have some solutions I know Greg mirskiy and others are involved in AI ppm work so maybe maybe this is something that\u0027s been discussed and also part of the background is we represent a few potential solutions to have multicast supported in these telemetry solutions and maybe what we need to do and this is another reason that I wanted to present here is that if those that are interested maybe we do need to spawn off a requirements draft before discussing some of these solution so we do we do have of course existing OAM techniques that are out there M tres et cetera those of you that are familiar with some of the on path to elementary techniques they are promising there progressing and there are some implementations out there Gregg ice-t lined up go ahead okay it\u0027s great that you decided to look at this and be very much interested to work together I can point to the document that is in a beer working group on applicability of alternate marking method its RFC 8321 to beer because alternate marking method can be not on "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:47:11",
    "text": "can use be not only important to point packet to us and delay measurement but in point-to-multipoint the author\u0027s working on multiple draft basically which is the to impede scenario in Peter Peter to MP 2 MP but RFC 8321 is applicable and we have a document in here which explains how it\u0027s used and what what it gives so we can definitely look at more generic scenario how it can be done in general multicast okay thank you and we do reference your document your OEM document that\u0027s in beer we reference that in this in this draft okay yes so the current on path telemetry techniques do have some flaws at least for multicast with I am every packet carries the entire trace data so there\u0027s a lot of data redundancy and with PBT post card based trees there\u0027s no branch identifiers so it\u0027s you can\u0027t correlate the postcards and so we\u0027re trying to produce a solution that addresses these these issues great thank you okay I I missed this draft I would have read and probably my comments would be high quality I can point to another draft individual draft that exists in IP working group it\u0027s uncalled hybrid 2-step method what hybrid two-step does is it uses the trigger to do measurement and then measurement packets are transported as a follow-up packet collecting measurements because they share the same encapsulation as the packet that triggered the measurement so that might be interesting I haven\u0027t actually I I admit I haven\u0027t thought about using this method and what it will result for the multicast but it will be very interesting to discuss that too thank you okay hybrid two-step okay I\u0027ll reach out to you after this and let\u0027s maybe we can collaborate further next slide stick yeah alright yeah so and there\u0027s only one more slide after this so there are two solutions there\u0027s a per hop postcard which is an enhancement to the original pbd scheme and then there\u0027s a per section postcard which is an enhancement to the IO am scheme which is pretty popular for the per hop postcard idea each branch adds a branch identifier to the instruction header and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:13",
    "text": "so you have a postcard with a branch identifier there in brackets and then the telemetry data is in the squiggly brackets and that data is being sent up at each branch node next slide yeah okay example perfect and then so there\u0027s a per section postcard example as well and and another proposed solution is that a section is the path between two adjacent branch nodes or between a branch node and it\u0027s leaf node and then a postcard is sent at each sections and node and that postcard contains data for the entire section and they these postcards for a packet can be stitched together and there\u0027s no need to I get modify any IOM header format we just need to refresh the header at each section head and send that information up to a telemetry collector so these are again details that can be hashed out more in the I ppm working group if you go to the next slide the last slide yes so this is really the only thing that we\u0027re asking is just to review this you\u0027re welcome to contribute I already know one grade that we\u0027re gonna reach out to discuss this further and we\u0027re not going to be asking anything of PIM and this will not be a document that\u0027s worked on in PIM any further comments or questions if not thank you yeah so um yeah yeah I read this myself by the way and so the main reason for the postcards is basically so you don\u0027t need to send any additional data in the data packet downstream right right yeah okay all right okay yeah I\u0027m gonna read it myself again thank you thank you all right all right well ahead of schedule here so next presentation on my Farrar MBL remind people already now that there\u0027s also an Bondi meeting in this room afterwards so you should know please please come up but yeah just a reminder that I\u0027m bound these sessions in this room later so I hope you all will stay for that yeah see okay thank you hermit "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:53:13",
    "text": "children from Hawaii and present present eighteen MOF are based on tra fade here is some backgrounds ofa introduced by unicast it\u0027s based on the algorithm that packet campus in the two it\u0027s directly collected the labor and the packet won\u0027t go back to the router itself so in this Ringo Oh topology are force in their packet to r3 and the target are true it can issue a that are three won\u0027t go back to our four so Marika\u0027s can also use this feature it is described in the FC 74 31 and then Yoli cast had advanced the LFA to remote Arif way the the left picture described the RF a lot the the cost in each link it will cause that that direct labor of our r5 cannot ensure the Kannada issue as a loop free for example our file send a packet to r4 and the target are two then the packet will go back to our file so in this example the RFA algorithm will have to calculate remote point R 3 so our 5 send it to R 3 and the target are true then it will not want to go loop and then in the second routine to introduce the gif a this is example topology are from our 6 2 r 2 there is obviously obviously link directly click the link how can we find a backup backup path clear here we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:15",
    "text": "can send the packet to R 4 and then through R 3 and of course this packet from our for to R 3 and then R 3 who won\u0027t then no back own own own happen so that\u0027s the that\u0027s the advance of our fake and we can now see what\u0027s the problem with MOF are here as just introduced ours are six can have a backup pass through r4 and earth are three and this can be this can be done in unicast by explicit repair knees are four and the in the face one two in F is 2 and then then target are true but the problem is that sorry I missed some background in the in the MOF are there is a pin vector attribute concur in the explicit point that a pin joint can can go through so in this example are six can add that attribute of r4 and r3 and tend to establish the backup path but here the the problem is that when even between r4 and r3 there are four if you just included the load the load the load ID r4 country centre the pin joint to r3 because our for though r3 that directly corrected labor but for our for it is not the it\u0027s not the RPF pass so the solution way proposes is that we add a team actor actor appointed out there interface from individual to in the fist to and then they are for get this vector "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:59:17",
    "text": "and can no no that it don\u0027t need to send the team joy across the short short is the pass but through the vector carrying in the packet so this is a proposal proposed extension to PIM RPF vector currently attribute AB 0 and the attribute type for is defined as pin vector you say in our presentation we propose a lil pimp vector attribute to the AF F it will be 0 repeat or your indicates the last joint attribute the value it\u0027s the unicast address of that direct directly collected labor and the type the type tells that tells the rotor not to use the normal RPF RPF interface but use their in the face indicated by this by this vector this function can also be used in a multipy but today I wear a lot cava ml DP so that\u0027s the let\u0027s say an introduction of this idea any comments I [Music] have one comment so for this extension you specify your own interface address and the neighbors address to uniquely think uniquely identify this segment right there is an existing RFC for route an interface identifier pin hello option that can be used to also uniquely identify an interface on a router so wonder if maybe that could be helpful so hard to explain here but basically the way that hello option works is that a router can announce say a new pack address or something plus also a unique ID for each of its interfaces so for a given router on each of your interfaces very soon up in hello we will announce the different identifiers but yeah I don\u0027t know if it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:18",
    "text": "helps or not but at least that suggests just thinking about it I can send you an email with the RFC number issue a thank you thank you okay any other comments see everyone comment Bishop Eric Cisco so there\u0027s already RFC for an explicit RPF vector in pin did you consider extending that sorry there is an existing RFC that defines the explicit RPF vector in pin jong-kook messages did you consider extending that before before doing this forward sorry kiyo taker this through the list okay thank you okay so encourage people to please read the draft and comment on on other mailing lists okay great okay then we have one one last presentation on IBM PM Modi evolution no it\u0027s this one of course hi good afternoon my name is olafemi caramel Ave Ave me koala Faye and I work for a star networks and they\u0027re a bunch of us working together on this work and nobody volunteered to give the talks even got me recently yeah so busy to set some background so the idea is Stig and sent an email to the list I guess a few months ago saying that the working group wants to move IGMP v3 and MLD v2 to fill standards and looking for some volunteers they can all help with this work so the idea is before we can do that we need to follow the IETF process "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:05:18",
    "text": "and two big things we have to try to do one is to determine what features and heiresses are not widely used okay and then also to figure if there are any kind of interrupt issues that arisen from these two protocols and there is and these the the answer to these questions will kind of inform how the working group what the working group does going forward so how should we answer these questions well there was a similar process character for sparse mode half a while back so the suggestion from the chairs was to use that approach which is basically to do a survey of the community so sorry vendors and operators and ask them questions to help us try to answer this to bake questions so there\u0027s a team assembled and the authors are Cannella so at this time we\u0027ve been kinda having regular meetings I guess already a few months and we\u0027ve created a draft of the survey which is listed there and so that\u0027s like in the background so the survey like I was seen is gonna be targeted our operators and vendors and also because IGMP because of iterative protocol yourself to maybe try to get some post implementers to can help answer the questions like I said the questions are in the draft would be really good to have a look at that to have some kind of feedback from you guys and then the results will be kept confidential so we\u0027ll just do exact same process like was done for pen sparse mode okay so next steps please review the questions I\u0027ve said that thought type and also carbs is one kind of open issue that we\u0027ve not quite resolved and it\u0027s what to do about features okay so should we all should we the less features at all or should we list features only in the RFC\u0027s okay because the idea is there are if you ask people tell me some IGMP v3 features that you use they may actually see some features I know in RFC so I should we can resolve that so that\u0027s maybe one thing that we\u0027re kind of looking for some input about so we can discuss that here on the list and once things are finished and the kind of working group chairs that can happy with it they\u0027ll be useful to try together as distributed as widely as possible so that\u0027s so our GMP an emerald RGB v3 and M LDV to have lots of stuff in them and a lot of stuff that nobody ever did it never never implemented or use lightweight IGMP v3 in MLD v2 was a spec that was written kind of as a response to that what if what if we discover that lightweight IGMP and MLD is more accurate is a more accurate state of deployment could that become the new internet standard or possibly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:18",
    "text": "give I guess the first thing is just to get the data forced and then we can then decide what to do with it Thomas Eckert CSI the initials when we started out there were questions and I haven\u0027t been able to catch up with the latest date of this for the last two a month and I\u0027m kind of thinking that you know at some point in time my function of is something ripe enough or not is also there is a time factor II said somewhat hamon to say go forward minutes distributed but I\u0027ll certainly do another run through it yeah there was also when when we started this one of the interesting question and that\u0027s why there was specifically the question there about execute note you know membership reports of anybody using them even at the risk that a good population will ask our what what is this which typically would mean no so exactly to figure out if we could reduce ourselves to the lightweight model as the future standard at least from the requirements perspective right so I think there is this other round that we need to do which is do we really feel very safe that there is no interoperability issue right because I think my perception would be nobody needs for ia pb3 but nobody really has widely deployed pure limited IGMP b3 constrained implementations so just because they would work doesn\u0027t mean that the protocol the way it\u0027s specified because I think we waived it through very quickly right when when we did that protocol I was standing up the right way yet so when I was standing up and saying hey I\u0027m representing one of those vendors that have implemented all the old crap that I know we didn\u0027t need but you know and now basically you\u0027re challenging me with me having to figure out if this is intolerable right but yeah I don\u0027t I don\u0027t think more is required that\u0027s what we\u0027re going to figure out whether it means it\u0027s good enough to also feel safe that we only mandate that specification or evidence that\u0027s another step we can take afterwards and I think that\u0027s a question that earlier thinking the draft we also call I in IGMP v3v to lightweight ask a question to see what flavor are you actually rotted right yeah I\u0027m just say this because I think there would be a lot of value in getting rid of all the crap that was in that we didn\u0027t need because it can make future implementations a lot easier to do and it would be great to get rid of things like exclude mode and and this is kind of hitting home because you know I\u0027m working with somebody who ended up having to write an IGMP implementation for VLC to get a MT gateway into VLC and you know that was part of it was what is this exclude mode crap but we\u0027ll have to do this it would be really good give guidance especially to people outside of this room what actually is needed so ok this is good work and I would say sure but to the to the to the team working on this I would say you know be brutal and cut you know don\u0027t be afraid to cut "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:11:19",
    "text": "things you\u0027re adequately it\u0027s just what question so basically if we cut out questions that allow us to conclude that we don\u0027t need exclude mode I think we\u0027re doing a bad job because then we can\u0027t come to the conclusion right so and the question if you find a way to make the question of whether we need expert mode or not in a way that most people in the world understand it please write because I mean we just put in you know do you use expert mode yes I I know a lot of people won\u0027t understand it but what\u0027s what\u0027s the best question how we can come to the conclusion that I think you and I want so please review the question say that let\u0027s get it out that it has all the important things you think need to be in there and cutting down the software afterwards that\u0027s after we get the feedback that\u0027s all those are first Truman is just a survey step 1 although framing the question to get answer the you want seems a bit controversial actually doesn\u0027t this point of a survey same things in the way but you get the answer that you want I\u0027m just joking oh just a joke it\u0027s ok no that doesn\u0027t mean that we\u0027re not trying to do an honest job of representing really what what the community is telling us back right so even if we don\u0027t like the answer I\u0027m just joking yeah so the way I see it is you know the the RFC might have multiple features exclude mode is just one of them and there might be many small details like fallback unique house messages or other things and every every one of those different things you should ideally get some input people are using them or not and then it can decide later and based on what we get can this be removed from the spec with I should say and so but right now it\u0027s just about asking the right questions yeah hi future way I have a question I\u0027m not an implementer I have a question about adding stuff so you\u0027re asking there if you\u0027re asking there if you should inquire about only things that are defined in RFC s or other stuff how much other stuff is out there is there a lot of people have implemented that are not really documented that you might come back and say look at this you know 90% of people reply that they do snooping proxy okay but so stupid proxy example is knowing the RFC correct so if their goal is to see if you want to take the RFC and you want to kind of distill it down should you then include things are not in that RFC well it\u0027s an open VC right so it\u0027s wrong I\u0027m concerned about the other way which is if there are many features out in the field that are not documented I\u0027m assuming that one of the reasons to ask maybe to document them at "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:19",
    "text": "some point so yeah soon the survey we\u0027ve we\u0027ve got a couple of open-ended question let me get to that but there\u0027s a specific question that you think we should add either so we do have a couple of questions saying you know would you like would you not like about the protocol what some of the challenges but we could add a question to this thing I\u0027ve ever featured that you don\u0027t use or in many ways if we have a if we have a what we think is a definitive list of all the possible features whether or not they\u0027re in the RFC and we could put them in the survey then we could but because you know what I\u0027m thinking is that if there are other features that are not defined in our seats you know maybe that means work for the work but on one hand on the other hand maybe and this is just a maybe what the team needs to consider is whether the specification is actually complete or if there are other features need to go in there now if you decide that if we get to if we even get to the point we\u0027re ready to balance the internet standard versus adding functionality right so if I understand correctly for the way to become internet standard we can\u0027t add in a new stuff right all we can do is take stuff away clarify things so I don\u0027t remember exactly the text but I\u0027m assuming that it says something that it can\u0027t have too many changes which probably means that it\u0027s safe to take stuff away but it probably comes from what you take away and I don\u0027t know I mean it would be hard to say if you take half the RFC away is that okay right so in the same way if you add something that now it is something that is actually used then it might be okay as well I guess the main thing is whatever we add needs to be very mature right something that has been widely used while implemented right I mean you know right now well yes we\u0027re just assuming things but we\u0027re gonna have to think about those questions yeah but but the point is I guess yeah is it useful for us to find out about additional stuff doesn\u0027t make the story better or more confusing more is it good info for us to have well my thought process was framing the initial questions so reverse engineering what is the output for the progression of the standards that we can do right so and that\u0027s when basically your points came in in the first round of review right what is the input that we need to elevate ijen pv3 to a full standard or IGMP v3 light what questions do we need to distinguish which of the two could be elevated to that right and so all the stuff like what would the other cool stuff to make people more happy would be certainly on a on a degree lower because it wouldn\u0027t help us to elevate to a fuller it\u0027s something else the nitrogen pv-1 that we have so that\u0027s still kind of the most limited scope and you know if we manage after ten years to have one "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:17:20",
    "text": "questionnaire out maybe we have in one or two years another questionnaire out for pool additional stuff but and maybe we should track it right now right I mean if people have these interesting questions and we just feel that they\u0027re just you know scope low we will just check them otherwise so um so I think you want to send out this survey fairly soon so it\u0027s a big creative people can review the questions and and we cut it\u0027s a lot of work to get this survey out to people and get their responses so we should make sure that they ask the right questions before we do it but they also want to move on with this and I think one of the key question to the community here in the room and the mailing list is whom whom else could we send it out alright I think we have a couple of usual suspect like you know it in a to mailing list in the u.s. some many news people no equivalent in the research base in Europe maybe accelerators people that work with a lot of customers so anybody who has an idea on whom to send it to please do it by yourself and if you don\u0027t want to do it by yourself give the suggestion home to send it and it will repeat the question on the mist right so basically well we\u0027ll have I\u0027m not sure exactly how we plan to do it if it will be like a PDF or some document or a URL somewhere but we want to help I mean yeah want everyone to contribute to distributing this is hard to reach out to all the customers and the prices and so on so yeah basically wants everyone knows someone to just spread this as widely as possible but yeah money little bits how you will send it out I mean would just be like forwarding an email with my attachments or pointing to a web page somewhere or so I was it done when this guy mr. Venus was doing it for him right yeah I can try to figure out what we did for what you were just mentioning in terms of having it on a web page obviously you know allows people to go back later on and you know potential we can have an update or a status report or something right they whoever kind of gets involved in the process has a more direct point to go to and so that what even if you haven\u0027t done it in PIM it might be good idea to basically point to a URL yeah I mean yeah the reason I\u0027m saying it is you want people to you know forward emails or so on forward request their requests but attachments might get lost in the process or something so I was on all the exact same process when we get them you know to enter in standard and as far as I know us Jeffrey as far as I remember we created a survey monkey or something like that survey and then Center the link obviously due to the participant so and then somebody was responsible for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:21",
    "text": "collecting the data and then anonymizing it and so forth so I think that was the option we used right yeah and the the same person that collected those responses and anonymized them last time it\u0027s also volunteering to do it this time right did Tim then do all the job to set up the Survey Monkey I think that team did I think he just had an account or whatever I could collect the results that\u0027s my understanding but yeah great if you can actually discuss with Rishabh and jeffrey here and buddy and what you\u0027re asking from you guys now i would say is this reviewed our questions and if they if you have any questions to add if you find some questions confusing or that they could be improved or whatever we need all input we can get to make them that the best possible and then I think hopefully sometime before the next ITF we want to send this out and we would unlike you all to help us distribute this yeah does that sound reasonable thank you any other comments all right okay I think we\u0027re done them so yeah we finished a bit early here for for a change thanks everyone so in about an hour this is an hour thing so at least the next session is embody in this same room so please come back for more multicasts all right thanks Mike if you are there yeah I\u0027m here thanks a lot Big Chief all right [Music] "
  }
]