[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:06",
    "text": "boom boom it\u0027s 10 after anyone see Tony yeah I just asked where anyone seen Tony can you sweep the bar and see if he\u0027s under table somewhere ok he had another with your fusing all right excellent so you asked for a one-hour slot and you show up late you just killin us no pictures or didn\u0027t have it I didn\u0027t hear a thing about hard problems you\u0027re after welcome you\u0027re in the brewery you\u0027re not the right place stick around you\u0027ll have fun anyway is the beer working group meeting 99 before we start can have someone volunteer to take minutes before I assign someone to take minutes and I\u0027ve done it yeah it\u0027s all those hands going up I\u0027m least the making eye contact usually you\u0027re going down your keyboard pretend like you don\u0027t hear me it did get quiet though that was good figgy pudding I don\u0027t know what did he say uh anyone come on go on Jeff you\u0027d love to do it you K really wow you got cover no you\u0027re presenting you\u0027re presenting twice that\u0027s not right volunteers come on someone hey Pierre [Laughter] you\u0027re hired I\u0027ll do it for you in your ex working group yeah see I usually tit for tat exactly can you do it we need you all right thank you very much all right jabber scribe we have one person on jabber we can respond against here if he comes up unless someone\u0027s gonna be on it any hands you\u0027re on it Oh excellent we have a volunteer thank you Tim yes there\u0027s one person on it perfect thank you note well I push it faster because we only have an hour and I like putting time at the end for discussion because we have items discuss even it\u0027s just kind of updates so I carved some of the times off that you guys were asking "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:07",
    "text": "for because someone asked for an hour time slot instead of the two we normally fill there we go no well noted well please this is a new note well please take note noted noted well excellent all right does the current agenda some of the names kind of flipped I think we got everyone represented here and we\u0027re gonna give a status update at the end anything missing what\u0027s March on okay so first we have Tim tunneling Tim stitching cities is again will give us time to discuss ok I gotta find it hang on bear with me yes you\u0027re all talk that might get stay in there you get this running for you stay inside the box inside the box perfect perfect human beat goli Nokia I\u0027m here to talk about first of all I\u0027m a first time well I\u0027ve been here a couple of times but I\u0027m new here take it easy on me no initiation procedures please so I\u0027m here to talk about draft the beer tunneling we change the name of the slides to pin stitching because it was creating some confusion some great comments came up thank you very much if we can go to the next slide so let\u0027s talk about the problem what we are trying to solve here the problem is threefold number one we are seeing some providers that they\u0027re trying to go to the next generation core this next generation is a converge core is a lean core and what I mean by a converge core is that previously for from core point of view there was a fixed core for business services verticals and fixed type of services and then there was a wireless core now as you guys have been hearing about 5 g 5 g 5g this wireless course there is a need for data centers there\u0027s a need for cloud services caching points so from some of these provider it makes complete sense to converge their core to converge their services to actually start saving money and operational status I guess so they want this court to be clean meaning that they don\u0027t want to have any multicast assets they don\u0027t want to have any bgp protocol single protocol that does unicast and multicast now that takes us to the second problem the problem becomes as soon as you converge the core and you put a mobile backhaul over a core the access network becomes very large let me give you an example some of these providers wireless providers they have in Access of tens of thousand radio unit radio towers each radio tower in the LTE network has a "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:09",
    "text": "router sell-side router each one of those sell-side router is gonna be a multicast leaf so multicast had to branch out to tens even maybe more 10,000 or more of leafs so scalability is the next issue last but not least is when you start converging the core the access network engineering unit and the business units are different than the core so they want a evolutionary path to start deploying beer as happens it starts from the core and they want eventually to go to the axis so this is not going to be a Greenfield deployment of beer we need to have some kind of marriage between the legacy multicast services whether it\u0027s in the GRT whether it\u0027s in MVP n to a core of beer and this is a lean clean core as I keep saying over and over again meaning that they want a single protocol for MPLS and for unicast and multicast and go to the next slide so in the next one please so this is what we suggest from a solution point of view so what we are doing from solution point of view is there\u0027s going to be two pieces to it there is going to be signaling and there\u0027s gonna be data that actually this is not my latest slide but from data path point of view there is no changes whatsoever multicast packets comes to the bier core vehicle forwards it to the other beer edge router when it comes from signaling that\u0027s where we\u0027re introducing the changes from signaling point of view in the beer core it needs to be very simple signaling so this will create a ping domain and a beer domain the edge router that connects the beer to the pin on one end it\u0027s doing PIM neighboring PIM dr joins is complete PIM negotiation but when it goes toward the core it needs to grab that SG and somehow similar to the other beer edge router that\u0027s signaling we could have done via a sub TLV we are not trying to create a pimp adjacency through a beer core there\u0027s going to be too complex for this core providers they just one simple SG join and prune through their core so basically we will terminate the PIM adjacency when it goes through the beer if it figures out that the source is sitting on the other side of the beer domain we will terminate the beer we need to signal the SG somehow and as it happened right now we use a pin joint or a pin prune to signal sg2 the other core so that\u0027s the signalling point and that brings up a couple of terms here that we are willing to change if it\u0027s confusing that brings up the pin be fer and the pin be fi are "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:09",
    "text": "basically what these are is these are the edge routers that terminate the pin toward the beer core next slide please so here\u0027s an example in this example as you can see one thing before I go through the example this solution will work for multicast data it\u0027s not really MVP in solution or it\u0027s not really a GRT solution it just in multicast in general it just so happens that some of the MVP and multicast as you guys know better and I do like graph Rosen use pin for signaling of the provider tunnel from one end to the other end so here\u0027s example so in this example the PE is on the edge were let\u0027s say that the cells sell side routers are sitting they are trying to provide their pin joint they go to the pin edge routers the pin signaling will become terminate you try to get that SG somehow through the core beer to the other a beer edge router and the other beer beer edge router we\u0027d remove the beer header from the ping packet and we\u0027ll create a new pin joint whether it\u0027s the same packet or not doesn\u0027t matter and it will send it all the way to the source one thing that the pin edge router the one that is egress pim edge router needs to do is it needs to track which one of the pin PF IRS is sending the group and it needs to keep track of the idea of that beer router in that case when it comes to the data path you have a mapping of reach between bf IR is actually interested into that group and you can multicast through a pin Gore next slide please one more please so here\u0027s an example of the data path as you can see we we have a table at the bottom that says lookup g3b fer that\u0027s it that\u0027s our kind of implementation so we are keeping track of all the groups and which one of the team B I are that are interested in that group so when the source gets the join it is start sending the multicast PDUs to the peer edge routers the beer edge routers they have their tracking which group is interested with which PFI are router and they put beer header this in the packet toward the piaac or the other edge router removes a beer header and just simply forwards a multicast packet toward the leaf expect just question for clarification this is non chair craig francisco the bit assignments are they all the way out to the p es or the beer domain stop at the p2 p1 p3 p4 so the beer domain has stops in this example at p1 p3 p4 p ok so that the bit assignments are on the the leaves of the leaned course yeah again sorry this is not the latest of this but you\u0027re absolutely correct so between the p1 and p1 p3 in this picture yeah that\u0027s the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "pim domain between p1 p2 that\u0027s the beer domain between p2 and p3 is a pin domain again so the map in there of the SG in upper right-hand corner says p e1 for group 1 really it\u0027s p1 for group one\u0027s the destination right that\u0027s the bit that gets set on key 1 yes ok ok that\u0027s correct alright so that means between the PE s and the peer outers we\u0027re going just IP multicast UDP joins alright got it yes thank you Oh Tala Secord sure what what\u0027s uh what\u0027s the unicast routing between the left and the right exits it could be anything it could be or between the access and so between the p e1 and P if P we include the ending it would be IG PBG don\u0027t know p1 to p3 so in this example we are using dry frozen as an example so for ad it\u0027s BGP but for provider tunnel signalling we are using P so there are verbs in the P easy back and the PIM join is there for contacts in the pin joint so it knows which one I came okay then how does the PE know which verb that came from so I\u0027m totally not understanding what\u0027s missing right if I\u0027m using draft rosin right or you know with the same signaling in BGP I\u0027ve got my you know PIM overlay or BGP overlay p2p signaling where the upstream knows every downstream receiver right okay so an early draft rosin you couldn\u0027t do explicit tracking but you just need to do a explicit tracking eval are you have the information on the ingress so on DB f ir so what\u0027s missing yeah right no but I mean that\u0027s what the overlay signal already does right in MVP n just forget oh forget about the MVP in here yeah name but even if every name no no I mean I don\u0027t need MVP and I\u0027m just saying that if I have the overlay signaling from the egress into each with the ingress PE right I have on the ingress PE the list of egress piece that want to have an Eskimo G and that means I can build my beer tree so I\u0027m trying to understand what Ramirez neptr is what do you mean okay sorry whatever the right term is right the beer bit string right all the masks the interests mask okay right so I I don\u0027t know what\u0027s missing what what what we need to do new here well the new thing is that on the on the P 1 or P 3 you need to actually keep track of what "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:09",
    "text": "groups are interested in that what what beer edge routers are interested in that group because otherwise you\u0027re losing that information so you still have a P PIM domain exactly right the p es aren\u0027t part of the beer domain yeah that\u0027s yes of course yes so you still have a provider pim domain that that joint is representing I mean I can take this offline we can go over and a ping and you know discuss this that seems to be the core of the work here right that you basically try to explain how you tie in whatever you\u0027re doing between the egress access and the egress PE and the ingress P into it so beer I think of it that way what what you are what you actually think is you\u0027re removing the stay and yet and you\u0027re removing any different applications just because the size of the domain is so huge so even if you\u0027re running it on my PE levels and we would run a beer from PE ones at the tens of thousands of scale ok we all have the hardware limitations none of us will get to tens of thousands so by pushing it one level into the car we we can we can scale better without the need no sense or areas or anything or revving 10,000 Hertz or 10,000 runners yeah again I do apologize this is not the latest version but I think I son gave all right next slide yeah next slide please I\u0027m one more so this is exactly what Andrew just explained so what this will give us is in the core it\u0027s gonna be a clean chord that you don\u0027t have any multicast states you don\u0027t have any extra BGP running between the P 1 P 2 P 4 because everything all the signaling is being tunnel through the beer and oh if this is not a completely broadcast domain if it\u0027s truly a multicast domain each one of those beer edge routers will have a limited multicast state which will help the hardware and will actually help some of these providers that\u0027s all this reminds me a lot or name Tallis I think and so 10 years ago the you know rsvp-te point-to-multipoint when they also had scale with the number of Ellis piece they could put in a tree and they also bet pulled the rsvp-te trees only to the egress P notes and I think then the the only question was always you know is the edge state that you have on these egress P notes is that you know more you know functionality then you would like to have on a P note right so I think you\u0027re trying to make the argument that the overall complexity "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:09",
    "text": "of having you know PIM on an egress side and B fer that that\u0027s very lightweight so I think that\u0027s what exactly the the major we review point is what operators think about that right the author list or less no no I\u0027m just saying that it\u0027s not always all the authors said that are in the drop if they are that\u0027s fine but that\u0027s I\u0027m just trying to understand all right one more question stay with us so if you forget about MEP ends writers know des really but you have certain routers of course at the are at the edge we are beer domain and in that draft to say that you know you say that how to basically figure out where to send the join what the e PB ers is kind of an otoscope and it seems mean I have some idea how we could do it but it seems that is the most tricky part of this perhaps you\u0027re absolutely right I mean there are multiple ways of skinning that cat depending on how the operator wants to go if the operator isn\u0027t I\u0027m just giving an example if the operator wants to make that p1 and p3 to be a ABR router which summarizes the route you know then the ABR router it starts the route with its own loopback IP address so that\u0027s one way of thinking but I definitely we are open to two ideas alright thank you just one more thing I think it would be good to use the beer prefix as a source address for the pin joint B basically because the the beer header is not necessarily available to the premium commentation it processes the join message okay can you can talk about that thanks for the concert it\u0027s back to the doing where they my exit points are so we already get also some other comments so we\u0027ll add this text cleans under stuff last a little bit here sorry guys and one portion of the new variants come to the mining with Mike Mike oh okay yeah thanks thanks thank you thank you right next so so basically the action item is the author\u0027s are encouraged to clean up the draft after all these comments and then stick you or the next guy on the list to actually go and look over the thing and you see he already asked for the source of catch up this time you\u0027ll be fine deuces write notes and concepts within names you don\u0027t have to do word by word there\u0027s a beverage I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:09",
    "text": "trust you yeah it here here I know your work ethic and you have not seen the crap minutes we\u0027ve gotten in the past so trust me you\u0027re doing just fine no no no none of you you\u0027ve always given me great minutes all of you well you can arrow but it won\u0027t Oh got you Blaine alright so babble first right Rivera later died that\u0027s not a flexible one such a snit cult will be the consumer please Hey okay the first thing okay good afternoon I\u0027m Sammy Sam from the EE this afternoon my first presentation is the further update of a bearing Babel structure I think most of the people most of the people in this meeting room are familiar of a severe protocol so I think I needn\u0027t read this page let\u0027s see the brief brief introduction of a protocol like PDP pebble is a distance vector routing protocol and it can be used in world and the various networks and the ending the latest version of the protocol of fc6 1 to 6 P it\u0027s draft sub T of V has inter as the be defined to carry extension impure protocol Olimpico protocol so your information can also be conveyed by this way next it\u0027s a similar way to do this the pure information can be carried in verbal update message and we use a news sub jovi to define this and because there is a manager repeating pebble protocol so we the beer the monitor repeat of appears up to be issued be said to 0f other cannot recognize the sub T of V doesn\u0027t work can ignore is actually and we can use pebble protocol which has further PR information so "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:09",
    "text": "every node in the network can receives in the Biafra d and the VFR prefix and other information I\u0027m just sandy are just a minute sense of time I don\u0027t think we\u0027ve a lot of babel experts here right so we can go into the detail blonde we would think we get I think concepts we understand what the requirements are at an IG P this is a new IG p yeah so can you give us maybe feedback because you presented this in the babble of working group let\u0027s cut to that because I don\u0027t think we have any babble experts in the room right now okay good have you if you read then digested this draft okay all right were you in the working group the beer working or the battle working group for this firm r2 or the information stole okay that\u0027s good oh okay yeah the extension has been implemented in in source code alpha Eunice team so you can find the information through this link that\u0027s working Oh got you so you\u0027re trying to how do you address non-beer speaking battle routers in the network that\u0027s what you\u0027re talking about that that\u0027s only contra pain here yes tension yeah and there\u0027s an implementation yeah implementation Wow actually stop or my personal point of view I\u0027d like to do this structure here in this group for because I think it has more relationship oh yes yeah I respect it is opening and I will follow the ad is I should so minimal context Babel is now pretty much considered as no strong candidate for the whole net protocol and the homeless guys are still looking for a multicast solution so there\u0027s opportunity to talk about beer with in reading home that okay Julia scrubbers like I\u0027m described in the Bible working group and so just together quick we are looking at that with a lot of interest however right now in Babel we are focusing on the core specifications and trying to avoid spending too much time of extensions until the cross specifications are done so we are not adopting that yet okay and it doesn\u0027t mean we\u0027ll adopted that we\u0027re looking at it was a lot of an interest and we\u0027re excited about that yuria said before he said I must add on fear death of thing I think that\u0027s a bigger project Yeah right right what was the other question okay so just what you represent before is we\u0027ve done the IGP work in here because those iGPS "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:10",
    "text": "are fully cooked right for the most part and we\u0027re just doing extensions to them and then when we go to last call which we\u0027ve just done we get feedback from those appropriate associated work groups as well I think in talking to alia if I just provide your words in this conversation that\u0027s okay Babel is still like you said you guys are busy you\u0027re doing a lot of other work so it\u0027s I think it would be I think the beer stuff is fairly well cooked what\u0027s not cooked as the Babel side of it it\u0027s not as understood as like is I as our OSPF is being cooked so the suggestion was it may want to live there instead while you guys bake the rest of the solution and then we stay on top of it for you know make sure that the right beer informations in the signal tell us Eckhart is there in them Lee and AM blondie working up charity in the room I was wondering if the you know home net folks ever came to an Bondi and asked what would be your recommendation for the best you know multicast solution a home net so that\u0027s that\u0027s I think that\u0027s actually a direct question and it could I can jump on a soapbox and go on for hours because we\u0027re we used to have a multicast kind of steering working group and that\u0027s gone and buddies kind of pick that up but the mechanism within the IETF tends to be the published us to be able to come as opposed to G multicast us and there\u0027s an idea let\u0027s bolt it on later and then not talking to the people who do it so I think this is happening already here to Arles but let\u0027s not talk process and procedure someone no no but I\u0027m just saying that it would be nice if yeah we might use us for that time wise man let\u0027s move we know it would be nice it didn\u0027t happen yep yep you said I went to a moon and him they didn\u0027t care they didn\u0027t care about toilets that\u0027s not true that\u0027s not true excuse my chair young lady at the mic oh yeah oh yeah yeah so Babel is the place for this work to happen because there are aspects of the encoding z\u0027 that are different from most PF and is is that are not as well understood in the broader community because bo depends on say advertising things what\u0027s worked well in link state but and obviously there are ways of doing with bgp but fables are just inspector and so there are mechanisms to do it but it\u0027s not a trivial jump in everyone knows how to do this so i want to make sure that the babel expertise actually gets to look at it and be very comfortable with it on the home that piece if you look at the home met architecture all that it says about multicast is pim and i am not aware of any other discussion but i think personally this has some interesting promise tim chai and editor of the homie architecture there was some discussions around I do remember things like discussing the scope I\u0027m pretty sure it was discussed here at one point very briefly but people like Ted lemon got involved with it as well I think he was ad at the time about some certain guidance on scope and other things I think also Babel is the home net routing protocol isn\u0027t it rather than a routing okay I don\u0027t to open old wounds with anyone that\u0027s a yes time but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:12",
    "text": "I think this is important question one address what would be the proper procedure to make sure these working groups work together not only just didn\u0027t get the beer specification correct but to work with a broader multicast expert community within the IETF to give direction for HomeNet sure so the great thing about works are illios so the great thing about mailing lists is you can actually include more than one from a process perspective of course things like adoption calls are very nice to include other working groups on so that they\u0027re aware that you\u0027re coming to a pivotal point if you hit a point where you\u0027re like we think this is you know there\u0027s a good implement in this case you know there\u0027s a good implementation we think you know here you can go take a look at it let us know concerns you know those are really good check points to check in with the other working groups that are not paying as much attention and of course you could all come to babble and here is some old-fashioned observation after all the procedures a little bit of running code goes a long way these days okay my second operation is analysis of who use peering embryos three network let\u0027s see the left figure the last figure is a three generic reference model there is alright they working group document about multicast of reworking and we Austria Network and the ping and the beer is also be mentioned because they can also be used as if him I promote him multi custom under date technology let\u0027s see the red figure let\u0027s see the red figure I can we can use the example taken topology of a memory under a network we replace this part from the virtual arena overlay network into if I\u0027m spying the project and as your general topology used in a data center and we know that we have we used p m-- as multicast underlay and the team will must build motive has the tree in leaf and spying devices leaf and spy device or have their multicast the flow stage and in case one of the source and receiver leaf changes the multicast this data along the trees needs to be changed and let\u0027s see beard "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:13",
    "text": "her apology so the first of I don\u0027t need to read it okay let\u0027s see the beer requirements every edge nodes include psi R and the PFR he needed to be assigned a unique EF ID and the aged nose should exchange PF ID and bf a prefix and other information by IG PPP extension and the beer ingress nodes for our multicast flow encapsulate Samadhi the multicast packet in a beer header which tests at a destination as the BF r ID set of a beer egress notes so when we do the study of using be area military Network you found that there may be two ways to achieve the goals well the first one is the tracing beer boundaries leaf switches and the second one is putting the beer boundaries on VE to achieve a better efficiency next let\u0027s see the first method the first method leaf devices we use the leaf devices as the AGR nodes so we know that our relief devices will be assigned a unique appear ID and the leaf devices and spy devices exchange is a ADP or PDP extension to build a beer forwarding plane but lve the beer and Flo\u0027s wanted to send from mve to leaf underneath must know the destination leaves p.m. Rd protocol must be used between MV and the leaves leaf devices so the body cast a group the information can be changed so this way but and the Purim flows must be mapping to one special group at address so after the exchange the mm-mean stand is AB um packet to leave device if device will encapsulate the flow with pure headers which the destination is if devices and we know that from this method we know that idmp MRD is still needed to run between m ve and the leaf devices and the the multicast the group for poor attendance and the specific multicast application still needed and the the third one is the PS error limitation i think it\u0027s a general question let\u0027s see the second method we use MBEs Sabir edge "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:13",
    "text": "notes so every MBE will be assigned a unique er PF ID and the steal BR forwarding plane must be viewed from the IDP OPP extension and alica encapsulate the package with your header straightly and the forward at a to Leafs leaf device underneath device car forwarding the packet straightly to the spine network so from this this method we know that we know in some situation I mean you cannot run PDP or PDP extension and can not exchanges their IDP or bgp information with the network devices so the MBE SPF ID and the BFI prefix must be advertised by any other race and the second thing is still the PS imitation so we we know that from this way sir we don\u0027t - wrong maybe much complicated protocol and we taught you better fancy incants comment is this pin presented nvo 3 hey I wanted to make a presentation in peer at first and as I want to know if fetters make mixes yeah so how does multihoming work Tony 20p Draper so did you give those two multihoming especially the previous model that will be my only comment please I eat some model for multihoming I mean if someone sends a joint no IGMP joint over two interfaces to two Leafs then you need to resolve the somehow not to not get duplicates we know that because the existed solution of all multicast is use a beam between these you just start to IG MP theories of matter yeah because we must be encapsulated the packet of with some said no because leaf cannot know the destination and the yeast information so leaf devices bus to know the destination devices information let\u0027s like we talk yeah its i guess actually got a whole but you input on this as well and i don\u0027t want to bury it too much but let\u0027s if people are interested in this working in anyway let\u0027s take the list let\u0027s see if we can provide her some feedback and get an architecture if we want to take the n do three thanks next is I think it\u0027s me it\u0027s that poreless guy just just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:13",
    "text": "a quick comment to this one right actually it\u0027s perfectly valid to present to n vo 3 with respect to this is the value it gives they don\u0027t have to understand how it works in detail just if they give the feedback that yeah the service that they get out of that that would be interesting but they can\u0027t figure out if it actually works then basically that would be a lot more motivation for us to just understand all this crazy and do three stuff which I don\u0027t currently so I must clarify that this draft is under the discussion with my colleagues that who works on lettuce and her so he view much information to you yeah if the working group says hey multicast would be nice if these people think that you could do is that\u0027s fine but we can\u0027t judge yeah but it works please get that check by then we have the motivation to check it because to say beer has to be mentioning the frame multipass the framework okay so alia atlas there is a multi right so as sandy just said there is a NVRAM cast frame architecture framework draft which is in my publication queue which just went to pim and amber andy for review so and got you know for during the working group last call and such and it would be very nice to have feedback I\u0027m certainly happy to have extra reviewers during IETF last call yes so just for the sake of minutes Pierre yeah my requirement as a chair is to reach out to them and get that last call sent to the beer list as well the working group last call is done it\u0027s in my queue oh okay but technical considerations are always but that doesn\u0027t mean that if there\u0027s any issues it\u0027s a bad thing and there\u0027s always IETF last call to comment during I\u0027m happy to forward it along okay thank you the man with note or go ahead next slide so basically I wanted to bring back the dear te draft we have a beauty architecture draft and a beauty efr drop and so basically we had some you know issues that made them expire both from the author\u0027s side and then also I think early on when we were doing the first call for adoption there was more things on the on the plate and so we got the notion that so from chairs I would say it when this first beer was getting off the ground right so we were focused on getting the general architecture in place and there was some serious concerns that came from a particular contributor from the working group so did you read it - yes that was done that was done but then basically we didn\u0027t review because we didn\u0027t renew the call for adoption because then was also we have so much things in last call and the author said issues that was done "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:15",
    "text": "so what the afford was actually you know so I didn\u0027t do anything new on the beer to eat stuff that was fixed in before but the last things that we got back was that the whole fo our story that we had was first you know spin it out we had done that last time on this time around the O - we did Reese pin and and put the scope of the fr completely so that it hopefully better matched what the feedback was we got okay next slide so just quick summary here for people who haven\u0027t seen beer - E right so it\u0027s basically just like beer except that the bits now can also indicate intermediate hops not only B F ers and that way you can steer traffic through the network along paths that you would like to do and the trick of that is that you only look at the bits indeed are adjacent to your nodes so that you can exactly only care about how you get it you don\u0027t even need any IGP routing protocol or anything in beer 2e because the stuff gets steered purely by the bitmask and we feel that you know the hope is that the beer te forwarding rules can easily be added to forwarding machinery so if basically the industry is starting to look into the beard forwarding machinery it would just be lovely to have an RFC so that the chance is not missed to get that added into the next generations the there is a lot of you know work in the beauty architecture draft to try to minimize the number of bits needed because obviously when you want to indicate all the hops through the network you need more bits so that\u0027s the majority of the complexity and that\u0027s all in the control plane and not in the forwarding plane next slide ok so beauty air for our so basically now we did come up with a very complex solution to do it natively in beer tea and basically we sorry what\u0027s your time oh okay right so we basically went through the different options right the first one is live life next slide and that\u0027s basically this wonderful thing where you send a duel through the network and obviously want to have engineered paths to send things around right so that\u0027s basically an ideal use case for beer te that you can engineer the traffic next slide you can also then simply reduce that complexity and sending only one copy at a time do failover to the other one and what actually helps you greatly there is the fact that in beer and beer te you can indicate the receivers very quickly so you can very quickly without signaling changes change the set of receivers right then basically link protection just use whatever link protection you have that is not nothing new next one no protection that\u0027s obviously where existing mechanisms are really bad because you only have point-to-point met backup tunnels so you want to have something better than point-to-point backup tunnels for no protections next slide so now basically how would you do no protection with beer te two options beer te and beer te and cap that\u0027s probably the most reasonable option and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:18",
    "text": "then basically this native solution that that we had invented which is cool optimization but it doesn\u0027t work in all cases so that\u0027s basically the summary of the rewrite of the beer te fr draft last slide so there was a research prototype implementation is done by co-authors and and their students before you can read up all on that and so we\u0027re asking for working group adoption for beer te architecture and the fr draft and yeah we would love to you know see the chip vendors be confident that the working group review has been passed so that we basically you know that this stuff works so this shaker time and and just consider charter be damned with this question who thinks this would be work that we want to adopt and do here in the beer or here all right who thinks it doesn\u0027t belong in the ITF or doesn\u0027t belong here all right good so I\u0027ll dress the charge next we talk about this all right questions improve recovery yeah yeah exactly it\u0027s gonna go to the list it\u0027ll go the list exactly I just want to see where the room was on interest yes can help you yes thank you sorry oh yes as the question I have is who thinks if this has Hardware impact is this something that\u0027s going to stall that where we need to hold off the architecture or the encapsulation that\u0027s the key point the Charter we can work with but the question is is there enough enthusiasm for the delay in finalizing and implementation and so on so I\u0027m dusting off some old brain cells here tortoise if you will give you a two seconds here to jump to the mic from what I recall the beer fib doesn\u0027t change I know it\u0027s built but and we\u0027d have to set it would be it like a separate set but I\u0027m a long time since I white board of disco there was napkins I think sorry just give me give me the concern again even if there is additional forwarding things to be done I think it\u0027s up to the vendors to decide if they want to do it right we\u0027re not saying that they must do it in the same round or so but if they have the opportunity they look at it and whatever you note but if it changes the beer architecture should be part of the be architecture draft is over point I think it\u0027s an addition it\u0027s an addition to it and you know we could go through our use cases for example just might be here yes right I know we have limited time we need to talk about it on the list but and I need to look at the draft in more detail I\u0027m looking at the most recent slides which said want to get this in so people can fix their implementations now but that\u0027s the concern I would not delay the pictures I agree because this is no I also wouldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:21",
    "text": "want to hold up anything and yeah well I think I think it\u0027s just really the the working group getting through with this so that you know what the implementers can check it it is it in this heart war or not I mean why would I want to you know I don\u0027t know how they built these things how it ends but there evpn Thank You Carlos here we\u0027re trying to talk as fast as we can that\u0027s okay so this work is about using beer or you know VPN net EVP and network we have co-authors myself Tony Adi and Jorge next slide so well for you VPN the you can have all kinds of provider or under a tonneau it\u0027s P 2 MP ingress reading all kinds of those things and now we can all see it\u0027s beer and when you will use a beer or for any VPN tunnel and it\u0027s very I said it\u0027s actually very similar for the effort for the MVP in case so in fact we borrowed quite some text from the EVP and MVP and beer yeah maybe a draft so with Avakian there are auto discovery routes in particular I\u0027m a rouse and some odd as pins reroutes the defining that draft that announces what kind of what tunnels to use for certain flows that routes carries a PTA is pimsy panel attributes their pta basically identifies the panel that\u0027s used to that is bound to that route the PDA including the tunnel type identifier label and flags next slide next slide please ok so when we use beer for a me VPN that the P th the fields will be encoded as following the tunnel part will be settled to beer this is already defined for the beer and VPN tanner ID again at the same as an VPN includes a subdomain ID and the if I are prefix address notice that this appear tunnel is considered as an aggregation tunnel which means that no matter how many bridge domains you have you only need one tunnel for it and because of that we need to carry a label in the case MPLS infrastructure that label is upstream assigned by the PFI are this in a central scenario it identifies the bridge domain I will not go into the other scenarios here because I don\u0027t have enough time and if you are using "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:21",
    "text": "the V excellent or MB gr e then the label field of the PT will be the VI or BSI and that is globally unique right now we don\u0027t cover and we H nearly that could be edited in the later version and then the flux field there are two piece could be used why is our leaf information required bits the other one is if information required per flow bit I\u0027ll get to that later next slide so for beer to each PA firearm is to find out which P F ers need to receive the traffic so that you can construct the bit string how do we find that out this procedure is called leaf tracking if we are using inclusive eternal the EVP I met routes which is equivalent of the inclusive IP and zero out in a making case that can be used to attract peas that need to receive the traffic and also there is this s mail routes that is defined in the IGA as MP ml d proxy grafts that\u0027s basically for each PE to tell others I need to receive traffic for a particular SG or star G so that\u0027s their routes can be used for live tracking purpose now there are some other scenarios that we need to use Espeon zero outs for their purpose and that requires cross bonding leaf ad routes that is triggered because of the those two bits carried in that PTA so the draft talks about that the slides talk about that but our spirits in the presentation now next slide so now come to data plane if the underlay uses the X now or MB gr gr e then the packet that payload is eternal frame comes from the seas and then you will have a GRE or V excellent header and then and the outside is the beer header notice that here we do not need a high P or UDP header anymore for that the beer headers proto protocol field we need to specify a new type new two types two new types for the big sandwich GRE and when comes multihoming sweeps with horizon procedures for the X now on this year is local bias based and that still works because the PFR ID in the beer header identifies the BFI are you can use that information to do the local "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:21",
    "text": "biased split horizon procedure now if the infrastructure is MPLS Network then beside the ethernet inner unit for Ethernet frame you will have you may have a ESI label for spirit and purpose and then you have a label / PT here if it is per bridge table or a broadcast domain it\u0027s the same thing and in more complicated situation you can have a label special specific for the pinzhi I\u0027m not going to there so notice that\u0027s here it\u0027s possible that we have to upstream assign labels when the traffic is coming from mark on the Ethernet segment next slide segmentation procedures it\u0027s it\u0027s quite it\u0027s some more complicated how much time do I have okay alright so segmentation independent of a beer you know EVP or MEP Network segmentation could be used in following impure situations where maybe it\u0027s required or maybe it\u0027s desire to use different tunnel technologies in different guesses or different areas and it could be that for exam you use our CPP don\u0027t be telling a story in ml DP or in our areas for area use beer and then when it comes to beer there is another use case where you have a large European or MEP and domain where you have many many PE routers and but you have your B string lenses only 256 so you could sell multiple copies using the Magus module success concept another way to address that problem is you divide that beer domain into smaller sub domains so inside each sub domain you just need to send one copy to the smaller set of the PFE yards those peers could be EVPs or it could be a segmentation point and that the segmentation point will further replicate the traffic into the next beer domain or next MLP domain so that\u0027s the general concept of the segmentation so to do that segmentation points will update the PDF field when it realized those routes into the next one to specify a new tunnel type or Newton OID that\u0027s the general concept of the segmentation next slide please so here is an example we have five PS here there are two we have two sub domains in the middle there is area "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:23",
    "text": "border router and we have two auto discoveries routes with here we call them SP NZ routes r1 and r2 advertised by PE one now ABR received those two routes the he it reordered has the into the next subdomain it still r1 and r2 but in the it will update the PTA in these two routes to in those two routes for the in the rows received by a br the PDA Co says specified that\u0027s a sub domain one and B F IR is p1 and the a stream a located label is l1 for this particular flow and and l2 in the second router for different flow so when when I BRE dog has in the next domain notice that it will change the BFI R or 202 ABR to itself and change the subcommittee to s2 and more importantly now the different labels are otherwise there are labels 3 and label for now the ABR was set up the 14 path so that\u0027s when this is labor one you will label switch to label 3 wins his neighbor to you will label switched to labor for so now when a beard package comes in arriving from people arriving on ABR from p1 it does the decapsulation peer header is removed and is this is label one he will label switch to label 3 and then it was sent into the next sub domain as to putting onto a new beer header is the two sub domains are completely unrelated the day BR does is teaching next fact so next steps we are requesting or in group Commons in fact the troll who read the draft all right this should have been presented in the best group as well but I forgot to request I know they are also round a patent anyway so alright the comments should go to both working groups and next time I\u0027ll try to present it in the best working group as well actually yeah thanks all right one more you\u0027re with me Thank You Jeffrey so there\u0027s just status update I kind of liked the conversation Dan but we\u0027re out of it and so I\u0027m just gonna happen right there done that all right we actually have something to cue and I think we have an open discuss right now that I\u0027ll just address it directly it\u0027s uh operational considerations so Lee and I talked about a little bit I\u0027ve kind of worked out a little paragraph it\u0027s not like we have to go into a complete operational architecture under the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:23",
    "text": "architects draft it\u0027s more like you know what is operationally different about what we currently do versus what beer offers and just so people can read it and I guess expand their head a bit about what fear does for the networks I mean that\u0027s the best I can describe because there will be operational documents coming out of this group that dress that directly they don\u0027t details that they won\u0027t be in an architecture draft all right good question I saw finger going up so the rest of these they\u0027ve all gone last call they have all been I guess well vetted with response except for two is is and the ID are extensions those two have gotten no feedback at all in the list so I\u0027m gonna kick the lists again for both of those just to get some feedback and then we\u0027ll progress the other four and Tony here is gonna be looking for shepherds so who here is looking to you know scheppers an opportunity to get your head into how the process works it\u0027s not a big time-consuming requirement any kind there\u0027s just a QA sheet there\u0027s a whole list of questions the draft that you go through to say answer these questions with respect to this draft so that we understand that it\u0027s properly gone through the vetting process the working group before we progressed it oh yeah let\u0027s just to be clear you also have to actually review the document we\u0027re doing the document to answer the questions half the time you got to review the document half the questions you have others are like did the list go through the work to the direction right but it\u0027s a really it is a really good way of seeing like sort of the ietf process through particularly if you haven\u0027t had the joy yourself and joyce yeah joy and it\u0027s also a really helpful way of indicating the strong interest in the mailing list in the work that there are people who are willing to volunteer to actually help with the process load and getting it through so the chairs can continue to push on the other things yeah thank you so if you if you guys are interested right about this would want to do grab us this week otherwise we\u0027re gonna offer the request list and get some feedback there again it\u0027s just jump in the middle of sausage factory and house see if things are chopped up but it\u0027s a great way to learn and get and get engaged boom i Leah I\u0027m sorry I took your notes at lunch and then I didn\u0027t put them in this deck but basically what we\u0027re gonna do is get the architecture draft through once we have something through then I Tripoli will address that rather than trying to get it curtain Wars in caps trap I\u0027m sorry yes I oh yeah so what we need is we need the encapsulation draft Tony sent me some fine text about what you know what the architecture is the encapsulation is doing by preserving the common header format and that\u0027s something I\u0027ll be able to put into the request for I Triple E given how soon the MPLS encapsulation is happening and given that I have not heard publicly or privately of anyone having a really strong need for the ethertype being allocated more rapidly than we might expect from our very "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:25",
    "text": "collegial relationship with I Triple E I\u0027m happy to wait for the impact MPLS encapsulation to pass the iesg which has just cleared last call so it\u0027s gonna be sent to you thank you yeah I guess it\u0027s gonna be busy I just heard you\u0027re looking for things to do so I\u0027m just want to help out your generosity is overwhelming I\u0027m here for you okay just going back to the Charter again run a time please bear with me a couple things on one addresses this is important our Charter is specifically talks about this work being experimental it also gives us some hurdles to jump over to make that migration we\u0027ve learned in Chicago that we can go to the art we can go to RFC process get a number as experimental and if and when the group makes the justification to jump to standards it happens without revving the doc so that\u0027s a clean process we also got great feedback from operators they were more concerned about getting a number an RFC rather than the track that was on so because the chicken horse requirement is we need to get bits in the field get some feedback other than the bits in the field there are four things to talk about what\u0027s wrong with the current solutions what\u0027s the advantage of the new solution how does it impact hardware 40 and how\u0027s that impact the internet architecture all of these needs we\u0027ve talked at at length in groups and on the list so we\u0027ve talked about putting this draft together from the hands in Chicago we\u0027ll get it out there for feedback and it\u0027s probably gonna sit there and stew for a bit until we get some field feedback but it\u0027s the next thing we need to do from there we can reach Artur and talk about what what\u0027s next work to do here this isn\u0027t something new in the forwarding plane right we got IP we got MPLS then we have beer if you think about that and the use cases are just going you know coming out now I think we\u0027re scratching the surface I think there may be a lot of work to do here going down the road so think about that and we\u0027ll take it to the list one more thing so Linda Wang from ZD has moved on to Australia she\u0027s watching this video anywhere so everyone just say hi Linda can you let thank you very much Oh blue sheets everyone sign blue sheets that\u0027s crazy yeah I could meet your bitch face "
  }
]