[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "beep and also it\u0027s part of being a just a working session the intent was not to have a jabber scribe okay in the usual sense it\u0027s really just us here in the room the only problem is we really do need to plan to speak into a microphone because we do have remote participants okay so please try to hand around the microphones in fact if we kind of get together if there\u0027s something going on you can you know grab the microphone out of the stand and just pass it in the group I really want to try to make it convenient to be a working session so you don\u0027t have to line up at the mic we can pass a mic between each other and we do have the two here so if we need to have two and that makes it easier let\u0027s just plan to do that okay we\u0027re actually right at 1740 here so again this is the registration protocols extensions working group as I said the intent is to make this working session so there are no planned slides except that Roger did have an outline for the topic that he has here in terms of registry mapping and you sent that to me a little while ago I\u0027m going to take the time to put that into something that I can display so I\u0027ll get it up on the screen and the remote participants can see it I\u0027m gonna help I\u0027m gonna turn this meeting over to Roger to walk through the discussion and make this a working session all I\u0027ll try to manage the queue over here so that he doesn\u0027t have to be distracted by that and I\u0027ll also tried to get the slides I\u0027ll try to keep them to the extent that we\u0027re using whatever\u0027s on the screen and the outline that he gave me I\u0027ll try to keep the on screen at that place for remote participants so that you can see what we\u0027re doing and with that let me turn it over to Roger I\u0027m gonna hand out the blue sheets and then I\u0027ll take care of getting some slides going so Roger over to you thanks Jim I think we started talking about this maybe even last year in Chicago when we are trying to find out where to put launch phase details into the fie mapping document and we decided that it actually didn\u0027t belong there so it was suggested that we actually find a new location for how to define what launch phase information is actually required for a registry or a feed installation so it was lucky that Verisign actually had already started this idea some time ago and Jim actually suggested that we go and take a look at that and see if it works or not Jim and I have spent I don\u0027t know last six months back and forth probably looking at it and deciding that for the most part if it fills what we were looking for with some slight changes that we\u0027ve already started making on it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:06",
    "text": "and this idea of the registry mapping is is I suppose twofold it\u0027s a system level information so if you if you\u0027re looking for your connections how many connections you have the timeouts on the connections and things you can find that in there but the the purpose that we were really digging into was some of the TLD more specific information that the registry mapping provides you know what what host names are they\u0027re allowed what contacts what things like that but taking that one step further it\u0027s also led to an extensible registry mapping where when a new extension comes in thinking of launch phase and fee you can actually define those in this registry mapping and how that RFC was actually implemented by the registry for that TLD so we\u0027ll get to those details with but I just wanted to provide that high-level item please so just to be fair he keeps saying Jim and although I I do frequently go by Jim it\u0027s only fair to acknowledge he\u0027s talking about Jim Gould here he\u0027s not talking about me every time he says Jim at the moment so I just wanted to be fair and and acknowledged that the source of all that I should also acknowledge that our co-chair Antoine rashon is out there in the remote participation for this meeting just wanted to make that known to anyone I\u0027m sorry so back to you thanks James all right so let\u0027s just kind of run through what the current registry mapping kind of looks like again I sort of describe it the two main parts are the registry level system items and then TLD specific items or zones I think it\u0027s called in the registry mapping so again the when you look at the core system items it\u0027s not a lot of hila or a lot of information but again max connections idle time ops absolute time the command timeouts those type of items are in that system level and then when we get into the zone level this really is about the gTLD and what it you know its parameters are said inside the SRS so when you get into the zone level you\u0027re talking about what services are available for that TLD the point deployment groups management information like create and update dates "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "creating updated clients other items are like batch jobs shared object zones so if there\u0027s certain things that get shared across one gTLD to the other maybe you can share a contact from one to the other so you can use one contact and you can put it in multiple different earths you know use it in multiple TL DS let\u0027s see domain policies obviously and under that you know the domain name rules rules around ID ends domain contact what those rules are nameservers child host registration periods RGB periods DNS SEC domain check policy and what the supported statuses are any any rules around the auth info expiry policies and again these are all within the main core of a zone definition for a TLD so moving on from the domain policies get into the host policies you know what are the policies around internal host external host can you share the IPS items like that post check policy host naming rules and again the supported statuses for the host as well moving on we have the contact object as well what rules around the contact identifier and again any sharing policies on contacts how they can be shared postal info rules contact check policies so how many checks can you do or how many contacts can you put in a check disclose disclosure support policy you know does the TLD recognize the disclosure flag and won\u0027t disclose certain information again supporting statuses and a privacy policy contact support alright and that\u0027s basically the core of the registry mapping and the the big item that gets attached to this of course is the extensions so when when extension is created you know you we can start to define those in this registry mapping and in Jim Gould actually has already done a preliminary one of launch phase so he went through the launch phase RFC and pulled out everything that could be "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "configurable off of that RFC so all the maze and shoulds all the options he pulled all those pieces out and said okay for a TLD you need to define these things and how the TLD implemented it so what if you let\u0027s look at the launch phase extension itself you know you you\u0027re talking about policies including it more not at the RFC but at the phase so it\u0027s kind of an embedded embedded policy where it\u0027s you know what type of phase is it the name of the phase what modes first-come-first-serve pendings and it\u0027s in an application or is it an actual registration create some other things or start dates supportive validators supported launch phase statuses you know our pending creates allowed is it poll messaging policies supported market validation methods actually Jim actually just mentioned to me you know there\u0027s multiples in there I never thought about it there\u0027s multiples in there so you please so sorry for the interruption anyone have any had the magic HDMI to two Mac adapters I did not pick one up from the registration desk I didn\u0027t realize they don\u0027t have the dongle if nobody does I can I could go to the desk and get it but I think I\u0027ll just stay for this I did upload the document that he gave me with the outline that he\u0027s reading from here into the meeting materials so you could go to the meeting materials for this meeting and you\u0027ll find the outline of discussion up there let me see if opera is so that he\u0027ll be here sorry Beck you Thanks and really I again he went through all these and just went through it item by item and pull out all the amazing shoulds so probably one of the big things to talk about is is this policy concept of when a when a extension is created we all sit here and talk about it and design it and everybody has to add you know one or two pieces to it but that implementation is not that you always have to do those things it\u0027s we went through the fee document and Jody if I can talk to this better than me but when we were implementing fee what said five years ago even though the fee document isn\u0027t even done but when we implemented it five years ago every registry that we worked with we had to sit down with them and they kept asking us well what about this piece of the fee document do you need this one and do you need this one so we had to go through "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:09",
    "text": "with every registry and said you know we don\u0027t use it I mean you guys can implement it if you want the document you know makes it optional or whatever but you know we don\u0027t implement you know we\u0027re not going to use it so we went through this process just you know 300 different companies and had to go through and do the same process with them what this will do actually is provide that information at htlv so all 1200 TLDs that are coming will provide that exact information that we need that we can do it with and we don\u0027t have to go back and forth and miss one with one register and pick it up with the next one so so I don\u0027t know Jim did you have anything you wanted to speak specifically on for an introduction I guess when we can get in questions yeah what I would say is that the experience of being an author of the launch phase extension and then trying to take that and create a policy extension out of it was very worthwhile I\u0027ll just gotta say as we go through these internet drafts we keep throwing stuff in I mean in essence you\u0027ll see it I\u0027m saw it in the registered fee extension things are getting thrown in and in essence you\u0027re gonna implement it as a registry the way that you\u0027re going to implement it based on the option that you chose but the point is is that in the case of the launch phase policy there were 15 different maze and shoulds and lists and that sort of thing that was thrown in there so as an author really clarified all the things and all the thought that went in there but it adds to the complexity for the registrar so in essence even if you didn\u0027t do this extension you probably want to document it in some place right you want to have an artifact that finds exactly how it is that you\u0027re how you implemented a particular extension but for me personally it I prefer writing code than it is writing a word doc that goes to legal so just to my choice but I think it\u0027s worthwhile to go to that exercise anyways as a author of one of these extensions hey that\u0027s a good point I mean that\u0027s it\u0027s something you bring up I mean actually I mean for the fee document I don\u0027t know it\u0027s about four years old now I think from the original and you know I didn\u0027t get heavily involved in until last year so there was a lot of things in there already that and it\u0027s probably doubled in size since you know the beginning of last year so it\u0027s all those I don\u0027t know if you call them compromises but agreements that yeah it needs to do this and it should do that and they need it over there so let\u0027s put it in there kind of features that just need to be documented somewhere so I agree the policy document really pulls that out and probably really helps you know when you start to think about true implementation of it and it\u0027s like oh yeah so how do you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "technically do that then I mean everybody agreed that that makes sense to do that in the RFC but you know okay now that we actually have to make it work how do you make it work so so yeah one other item is the fact that this would in essence result in two extensions for every extension oh yeah right so just think about this so you create an extension around a registry fee in essence by creating a policy extension of the registry object as opposed to an extension of domain what you\u0027re doing is that by defining the policies of how you\u0027re implementing an extension pretty much creating another extension of something different right so you may think that it\u0027s doubling your work but to me personally that it\u0027s something that you should be doing anyways actually when I create an extension I typically will always always implement it myself on both sides I want to understand how it works or how does it work I look at all the different options but being able to capture that in something that\u0027s concrete that can be consumed by software I think is really beneficial so I don\u0027t want to start with a negative there\u0027s two extensions instead of just one I think it\u0027s it\u0027s absolutely necessary okay that\u0027s really the high-level overview of what the registry mapping is intended to be I don\u0027t know if anybody has questions concerns I mean I think Jim brought up the biggest concern that I mean I can see authors having this is really it creates two documents for every extension that you create so does it have to be two documents it doesn\u0027t have to be two documents right I mean I guess that\u0027s the question you\u0027re trying to get on the tape on the floor here right yeah and it\u0027s something we actually have talked about is you know do they need to be two separate documents can it be a section within one document that explains all this I Alex may oppo speaking like thirty centimeters above ground well um my general impression I\u0027ve been reading through the word document that here that you posted on the meetings materials and I think that I know roughly the internals of photomania registry but some of the words that you mentioned there I have no idea what they actually are so Beth show bet chops is one of the words or points on that Word document "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:11",
    "text": "I don\u0027t know what what I would need to describe their I\u0027m saying to you like created that from that exit that you sent to most of the registry yeah so it\u0027s like a living experience of what you require from right histories yeah good yeah actually that the Badger was coming back from maybe a five seconds so I think before we equally we can work them on the document we should actually understand or this some of us should understand what each of these items actually are unless the extension is so generic then essentially it\u0027s a key value pair it says bitch job domain expiration yes whatever that means yeah you know I would say that yeah we need agree on the terminology yeah I think number one I thought that it was well I guess my mind it was no but obviously it\u0027s not so just to let you know the fact is that it\u0027s generally something that we\u0027re going to run on the schedule that the most important one that we have is the the dilly batch that runs at specific time that will actually purge the domains from the system but the timing of those batches is really important for the registrar\u0027s to know when you know like the nota renew is going to occur when the domain is going to get to lead it when is a transfer going to get auto approved you know one of those batches that run on the schedule execute that\u0027s what that particular section is about so if you have another term that is better for that great to know yeah and this Roger Alex yeah I think for the for the core items it\u0027s definitely not going to be a key value pair I mean they\u0027re set items so Chris from core Association of course i think thats always what if the registries implements this extension differently right so we need to be if we define something sweet strict or not but there is little room for additions same thing I think great of an extension that we can use for example you have XML and you can you can generate a number of tests who Mazda in content if you can automatically generate sound the sound took months for registers who bleeds when they come to the registers you can just put the case in TECO data immediately feed their system try to connect see if there\u0027s any boxes that are on all the test cases and then it need to be there they\u0027re far further into having discipline but we\u0027re definitely needs and you especially thanks Christy I think he make a good point again going along with the Alex says that core said it\u0027s got to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:11",
    "text": "be something that everybody in Greece and you know maybe not everybody implemented every one of those items but agree that that\u0027s what that is and that\u0027s what it\u0027s for come up here Scott this one\u0027s a little higher no this is okay Scott hollandaise in terms of the question of do we do this in two documents or do we do it in one I\u0027ve got a very strong preference for trying to find a way to do it in one it just you know from an overhead perspective it makes things much easier and if that means that we as a group you know think a little bit about adopting some kind of a convention for what we might expect to see in terms of a section you know in an extension document that addresses this that would be time well spent thanks guy um this Roger I we went through this discussion and one thing we kept coming back to was how complicated will how complex will that one document get and will it get confusing when it\u0027s talking about maze and hoods and shoulds and and then you get into a section that is detailing all those out does that complicate you know how that first draft is written okay any other questions online any questions no is everybody understand I suppose the goal here and is it a good goal something that the group would like to move forward with yeah thanks Alex here again maybe I can try summarizing in a single sentence the goal is to transport the configuration of the registry and all the aspects of that in TPP know between registry in which that\u0027s a good summarization of it yeah so Alex does it it\u0027s a nice understand it it\u0027s a nice goal it\u0027s a hard one I guess you know because there\u0027s so many ways to do something in a different way yeah and again I think that the core piece of it will probably be the hard part to do and get everybody agreed that these are the main things every does the extension you know an e an extension sends it\u0027s probably pretty easy because it is a little more dynamic but yeah I think that the core would be the where we would spend our time trying to get "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:12",
    "text": "agreement on what that actually means and you know just everybody call it that or not as long as it\u0027s there you know the the the I guess the meaning behind it is known that looks again I try not to be the elephant in the room but shall we include information regarding previously policy with regards to what type of data is being published on the other end as well listed just the provisioning end so which of the data is going to end up in buoys that\u0027s interesting I mean again one of the items in EPP was the disclosure flag so you you\u0027re starting to touch on it but is it more yeah I would like to try to stay away from that on the other hand my question is with the configuration information being complete to you then I would respond to that and say that\u0027s around provisioning if there was an extension like for example like you said that the disclosure element that outlines you know what is possible that that way what how the registry implements that particular feature would be described in this particular extension so I\u0027m not sure if you want to go beyond that at boundaries yeah I think that most most registry is Utley that I\u0027ve been talking with in the CCT of the world might want to go beyond of what\u0027s possible cities collective samhita might not even display a handle or a contact ID for a domain important yeah part of my concern as well and doing something like this is trying to capture every possible combination of implementation that may be kind of what I would call snowflake kind of one-off potentially the issue is that for us to have something that\u0027s common across those I would see that if there are some registries that do things in a very unique way then they want to create a separate extension of this to be able to communicate their particular unique policy so I wouldn\u0027t want to bake this and making it so big to cover every possible little nuance but so what you are saying is that we are going for the 8020 Queen\u0027s exactly here just to add on to that Alex 80/20 where you can still define the 20 just on the side of it so it\u0027s not it\u0027s that we had to agree with every 20 here it\u0027s an extension that you can add into it since it\u0027s an object in EPP you can create command response extensions for that so therefore you can define whatever it is you want to find palsy Chrissa component one of the ways may be to prevent people from writing they want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:12",
    "text": "and causing ability is if if there is a way that allows you to generate it\u0027s not maximal definition and then you can in in actually finding the extension versus register you can define it on their own and they say okay Aarthi extension is supposed to look like this therefore here is what you should use to generate for the c\u0027mon create this what you should send to us and rivers then uses are periods and immediately generate what certain service or in any way kind of bypasses people if I write something combined a person example okay someone because they look at it and say okay this but it\u0027s it\u0027s called problem okay they defined something straightening actually we\u0027ve already implemented our proprietary version this and you know what 150 plus TL these yeah we have everything data-driven to be able to generate a policy but the intent is to help the registrar\u0027s to be able to see those variances between those TLD ease so that\u0027s there for the Registrar can auto configure their side of things and we have we use this ourselves for our own monitors so no one would like launch phase particular TLD Ireland and what you can it can\u0027t be done it\u0027s very very useful so yeah it\u0027s it\u0027s got to be Dave driven as much as possible good all right we did have a few I guess suggestions questions that have come up since we started talking about this Anton actually brought up a question I think the last time we talked on this was you know should the key relay mapping RC be included in here and and I think that the easy answer is yes the hardy answer is you know isn\u0027t an extension or isn\u0027t in the core and to me it seems simple enough just to make it part of the extension you know leave it out of the core but you know that\u0027s just my opinion but actually antenna might be able to describe this so I like to know what options there are in the key relay that you would want to communicate something like this it may be just that the TLD supports it yes or no if it\u0027s a yes or no then the core already supports that because I already enlists the the XML namespace is supported by that particular TLV so if you connect to a registry that supports 150 TLDs you\u0027re going to see an aggregate of all the different extensions supported by that system but in essence you want to be able to query for a particular extension "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:12",
    "text": "I mean it\u0027s particular tle why they supported when I says if key relay was only supported by a subset of those TVs on the system you\u0027d be able identify that but if there\u0027s more than that then you\u0027d be able to identify those specific specific options in the key relay that would be useful okay and actually Patrick gave us quite a few different those talking points to look at he brought up a few different attributes of zones the rules around domain names number and type of objects and policies on unlinked object relations which is an interesting one because we\u0027ve been talking about that for a little while now as you know what are the deletion rules around an object that\u0027s been sitting there not associated to anything for a year you know I said you know after six months you get rid of it you know if it\u0027s not linked it\u0027s an interesting one that I think could be useful in there Alex Alex again I\u0027m I\u0027m trying to turn my head around the fact that this can actually be depending on other effects like for example registries can introduce new again scripts yeah which changes that rule but in turn registries might want to introduce those idea scripts in like samurai style so we have like combinations of those things and I have no idea how we could ever convey that in a machine readable format that would enable you to like press the button through Yahoo or take E is enabling Cyrillic yeah next months and it\u0027s applications so yeah see to it so we could either focus on the like I like to say the stable operations mode of the registry and try to include like wait from Wendie to thousands or we could go for a winter to actually try and look at whether we can manage to represent those combinations there will be a launch phase with la you audience creep that creates applications I\u0027ll respond to that one um actually a launch phase is pretty unique in the fact that it has schedules defined schedules something like they\u0027re talking about I that may be better suited we\u0027re in essence there\u0027s an updated date for the policy so the idea is the fact there\u0027s two different forms of getting policy information for what we call the zone when does it get a list of all the zones and then there\u0027s an updated date in there to be able to support updating you the cash on the client so in essence if you\u0027ve loaded it all up then let\u0027s say "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:12",
    "text": "that we change the IDN policies let\u0027s just say right and let\u0027s say that we\u0027re able to code the idea in policies effectively inside the zone what you\u0027d be able to do is do a query find out that it\u0027s been updated then query for the specifics right so in essence what you would be doing is that you would be having the data provided from response to be able to drive your logic instead of saying I\u0027m going to schedule ahead of time and look at you know at this particular day you\u0027ll be able to do it dynamically in that instance not not in the case of launch days okay another thing Petra prophet brought up was the the epp transport content number of connections which i think is obvious time outs and to me those were the the obvious system ones that we actually had in there I don\u0027t know if their TLD ones would be specific or not so registrar content this was an interesting one that password policies you know lifetime pass to password can you reuse on complexity things like that is that something that we could design into this so that it\u0027s defined and you know anytime anybody logs in they know hey my password expires in 30 days so it\u0027s another context that is useful today is obviously fairly manual we just went through it with filius not too long ago but another good idea I think so I have fun like year with two things one thing is I think we should reuse previous word so I don\u0027t know whether there is some XML or whatever that describes a password policy if such a thing says exists we shouldn\u0027t reinvent the wheel for example IDN scripts we should use LGR yeah because that\u0027s already existing and they\u0027re groups actually describing the policies for every script so if possible which we could include LGR here and the second thing is that there are so many of those things we should maybe at one point goes through all those things and try to figure easy not that easy but doable hard very hard yeah and then inside which of the things we would want to include the most pressing ones I would say if the most pressing wants out of that are very hard to do then we have a problem if the most if 80% of the most "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:13",
    "text": "pressing ones and easy ones let\u0027s go for the easiest ones first and try to move up from there so you\u0027re thinking the hardest technically to solve yeah and balancing that against the the cost of how it\u0027s currently being done basically I think it menu yeah yeah what I would be asking for is the other registries specifically out there take a look at this a lot of the elements in here make sense to me because you know we get Verisign one hasn\u0027t implemented it so that matches our way of doing things but our is not the owners is not the only way so you\u0027d be great if other registries take a look at this and and think about what kind of policies you have on your end that could be communicated to the registrar\u0027s in a structured way if you can\u0027t you may want to think about it I\u0027m just just throwing it out there if you can\u0027t represent your policy in a way that\u0027s easily consumable then it mean it may be too complex of a policy right but take a look at this and see if it\u0027s something that is missing something that could be adjusted because the idea here is to be able to come up with one way that registries can do this so um Jim Galpin just speaking for myself here um since I guess I want to say two things first just in response to Jim Gould air immediately you know we are carefully looking at this you know we Phileas and trying to decide what we want to do here we want this to work this particular register our content stuff and password policies not actually sure this belongs here I think it probably belongs somewhere else I just don\u0027t have an alternative to suggest at the moment so you know with that in mind it\u0027s okay to talk about what this might look like because even if we move it somewhere else we will have had the discussion about what this kind of this kind of information looks like and so you know I mean I like the fact that we have an opportunity to talk about this line item and the second thing is yeah you know since Roger just mentioned that you know they meaning meaning GoDaddy and and Asif Ilyas we actually tried to go through a password change for all of the registrar\u0027s that are with us for all of our TL DS and found that to be I\u0027ll just call it an interesting exercise so we\u0027re very interested in trying to find a way to better manage this kind of information I\u0027m not sure it belongs in this registry mapping but at some point it\u0027s either going to go here or we\u0027ll have a suggestion on a different kind of framework to do that so I just wanted to put that out there for discussion since all this is just under discussion it\u0027s it\u0027s fine to just take that in for right now I\u0027ll chop it on that one actually I kind of think that it does belong this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:15",
    "text": "it may be that warning messages and that sort of thing about expiring password would be more for an extension of the login response or something but in the case of defying policy if you\u0027re going to on the registry side expect a password you changed every 90 days right that would be a basic system level policy that you could communicate to the registrar so their systems are aware of it so I guess the interesting is the distinction that I would make and why this is just sort of a discussion for us is are we talking about the registry as a service provider so that I mean for example you like us you know we have a couple hundred GL DS you know so are these policies about that or are they about a TLD because on the one hand it\u0027s not clear that these passwords are purty Aldi which is what the whole mapping is for as opposed to that and I think it\u0027s it\u0027s just it\u0027s an interesting distinction and if we\u0027re going to come up with a framework sort of manage these things we have to decide what that distinction is going to mean and and how that would apply to this particular content so make sense oh yeah it does and actually based on the connection policy and the timeouts and that\u0027s where those are system level and that was added so there\u0027s a different area for a system and then the system contains many zones or TL DS and then you have specific policies at the TLV level so it supports both and in the case of the long face what roger have referred to is the fact that it\u0027s a a sub element of a TLD so our TLD has many phases so we look at the policies of a phase they\u0027re unique per phase but there\u0027s no way that it will limit limit in this way by the Knesset\u0027s what ones have happened is that by having a system level set of policies have a TLD level policy and even have the option for sub policies that I think in terms of the password policy do you think it is actually a good thing because there is typically in a registrar there are various people working with worse than some people - barely - typically these are some people - the technical hospital and every time there is something like a password change it has to go through multiple people until it reaches the responsible person that can actually change if the system camera already notified legally technical person but there\u0027s Batanes about police power changes or something and yeah one item that we discussed actually today was whether or not this would be strictly policy like for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:15",
    "text": "example you could say yeah if the password expired with 90 days the other is that you could tell you based on your log and when your password is going to expire next based on that request right that may be better suited for separate extension related to telling you proactively that your password is about to expire but it could be done that so I\u0027m not sure whether or not that\u0027s something that you just put as policy within this extension then you put the other somewhere else so I mean I\u0027ll complicate this even further I mean there are multiple passwords that may or may not apply at different times and all of this which is part of why we\u0027re in - that\u0027s right I mean there\u0027s the epp passwords and the connections their registrar\u0027s have access to portals you know and on our website and there are different passwords that go with that there are multiple role-based passwords that go and this is why for us it\u0027s a it\u0027s a larger question of an overall framework for dealing with authentication and whatever we do here just needs to fit into that larger framework and you know that\u0027s kind of why I bring it up I mean it makes sense I agree to a first order since this is about EPP and you\u0027re talking about credentials for EPP and sure I don\u0027t want to disagree that it should go here there may or may not be more things to say there so I\u0027m just observing that we\u0027re thinking about it in a larger framework all and one open the door for you know there may be something else that this this work has to relate to for you know for it to make sense well actually you bring up a good point now if this was broader than the actual system I\u0027ll say that you know for FTP or whatever other passers a there would be there I don\u0027t think this that would be applicable to this and actually this is specific to each system so in essence each if you have multiple registry systems each registry system would return back the policies of that system and any TLDs on that system so in essence if you are looking for a central place to look at all the systems and then all the deities within all those systems and that would be even a bigger problem where in essence the the password broader password issue may apply but this is kind of targeted per system so in essence when a registrar connects to a registry system this would be target for that one system and not talking about a different system so I\u0027m not sure whether or not there would be a desire to have it be broader than that but I think that might be too big right well and then in those lines if we go down into another layer so we\u0027re talking we\u0027ve sort of casually thrown out the idea that you might tell the tell the client when they log in that their password is about to expire well if we\u0027re talking about an EPP client and this is an EPP server on the other side there\u0027s probably no place for that kind of notification a notification probably needs a different mechanism to get out there so that the Registrar knows that kind of thing that\u0027s why I\u0027m thinking about a different framework for dealing with credentials that there\u0027s a relationship here but you know I\u0027m not sure that all the details are in here or not I\u0027m "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:16",
    "text": "actually with you on this one so I would say put the policy in here for things like warnings about expiry of passwords expiry of certificates expiry of or insecure cipher Suites and that sort of thing could be an extension or a login security extension or whatever it is that would provide additional information in the in log in response which would be more useful or more real-time than it is taking a look at policy of that system I think that\u0027s my okay so like great things in just a time check 15 minutes thank you okay any further questions comments chris is coming up there Paul messages notifications does the system of the Registrar recognize what this poll SS is it\u0027s a whole amount of story but if we want to send something right I would say it doesn\u0027t make sense to make an extension since this and I know that wasn\u0027t registries or sending some watts of this type of format so it\u0027s not exactly a notification of things that are not within the spectrum of what is typically so Jim Calvin Jim cool will come up next just to say I mean all messages are interesting because and I\u0027m sure that Jim Gould would say something similar registrar\u0027s willingness to actually react and take on board poll messages varies quite broadly shall we say I mean I think you know as a registry and we\u0027re very much in favor of trying to migrate more things to all messages as opposed to individual email messages and other kinds of things because there is greater opportunity for automation and and you know a little more stability and and standardization in it but I think the problem that we have is we kind of have to do that a little bit at a time would be what I\u0027d say because not all registrar\u0027s are the same they don\u0027t all react to the poll messages so we have to begin to figure out how to get traction in the parsing of whole messages and get more registrar\u0027s on board with doing the right thing and that\u0027s that\u0027s a that\u0027s a real problem for us especially with with smaller registrar\u0027s I mean GoDaddy obviously is not a problem in that respect but there are many that are actually what I would say is that I equate the pool cue as to email so in essence imagine that you\u0027re a client is on your website they have to change their password you probably tell them right there on on your webpage and send an email so I think it would be better if you\u0027re able to return the information right within the response to the login is that way what you can do is provide additional "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:18",
    "text": "information related to that particular connection like what like I say they\u0027re not your certs could expire whether or not the cipher suites are insecure those sorts of things could be returned but again I don\u0027t think it\u0027s related to the registry mapping because I think that\u0027s policy CalFire some of this material relates to actually connecting to the registry in the first place how do we bootstrapped this how do you communicate a password policy before you have a password and to communicate certificate information or cipher suites before you connected to the registry in the first place thanks Kel were you talking to Jodi cuz I think he brought this up before as well yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s a good question as to how you can do that because one of the biggest problems that registrar\u0027s have is is really onboarding the TLD so by the time we get a password into this system we\u0027ve answered the 500 questions that we needed answered so it is is something that we need to look at and figure out how you know where does that information set can you get an OT any that describes the production system but I don\u0027t know is it\u0027s something that we\u0027ve been throwing back and forth it how we can do that so good question and I\u0027ll tell you that you know we\u0027ve thought about this issue ourselves because we very much like to do something like this I mean this would just be a super thing and I\u0027m sure that you guys would think of it the same way and and that is that is an issue you know I mean there\u0027s a certain manual process associated with onboarding a registrar and what you want to do is find a way to get to a point where you can set them up so they can just go do this and get it automated and at what point does that where is that point time in all the set of manual things that you do and we haven\u0027t decided that yet so what that is a discuss we have to have and we\u0027re hoping to bring you know we\u0027ll give that some thought and decide what we think and we should have some discussion maybe it isn\u0027t really clear we\u0027re gonna try to standardize at point time or not we\u0027re if that\u0027ll be left for individual registries to decide but it would be a good point of discussion at some point this is a crazy idea because I was I was just saying I hate Word documents but I think honestly this is consumable definition so in essence whether or not you were formally defined in a structure like this and put it into an artifact that then could be worked in and then use to configure you can do in batch instead of doing it real-time not that I\u0027m suggesting it that way but it\u0027s consumable all right so a related idea about this is what happens when this changes the apology change if the policy changes over time you know you\u0027d really like to set up an automated way to alert registrar\u0027s that there\u0027s been a change and they should go grab it again or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:18",
    "text": "should they just grab it each time and there\u0027s a policy for that no yes that was the purpose of the updated day honestly so the point is is that you would expect the registrar to be able to periodically query efficiently which provides a list not all the detail with an updated date and they see that it\u0027s been changed I would anticipate that the registrar\u0027s will cache it on there so you see it this change that you can go in query and reset configuration no that\u0027s a that\u0027s actually a good point and how do you announce that that changes upcoming as well Jodi go ahead your mouth is moving but we cannot hear you can you get Shirley now yes nice and loud sorry about that you know one of the one that may be one of the options would be to be able to add this to be updated it has an attribute in there to say that the registry mapping will be updated at this time for this TLD it\u0027s just a thought in case it you know if it\u0027s going to be updated in three days put the next updated date in there so I mean I think in principle I agree with you there needs to be some kind of early alert that a change is coming as well as the fact that it changes but it still just brings us back to this this basic problem about you know whether people even if you automate that and put it in here and I do think that it should be there you know we really do need to migrate people to dealing with it in an automated way and that really is a bigger problem for us we do want to have that and have that feature but you know how do we move the community to doing it in that way is kind of the issue but the only way I could see that work and it\u0027s kind of the way that the launch phase policy extension was done where you\u0027re like segmenting it off to allow for multiple by dates and that gets a lot more complex I got to tell you by implementing this yes it\u0027s data-driven but in essence you have to like restructure your data to be by schedule so in essence when you\u0027re going to schedule your deployment of your new logic you\u0027re gonna have to like load it up I\u0027m saying it it\u0027s technically feasible you could do it it\u0027s definitely much more complex to produce and to consume yeah I was thinking similar lines Jim did it yes know that the I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:23",
    "text": "mean it seems simple enough that there could be an attribute in here that says hey there\u0027s a future mapping coming up 90 days from now you know I could say on August 1st there\u0027s gonna be a new mapping and then technically the registrar could call it and say give me the mapping for August first yeah again a lot harder but can you actually do that I have to I don\u0027t remember in detail enough if we you know can you can I actually asked for a mapping of a particular date that would be kind of interesting I\u0027m not sure that that even the the spec that you guys had would let you do that but yeah anyway yeah it\u0027s a it\u0027s a good topic for discussion to figure some of this stuff out I mean especially since for for cctlds I mean they\u0027re they\u0027re sort of individually different I mean for us and you guys - you have gTLDs a lot of things especially certain changes are are have mandated notification periods you know so all this stuff has to be sort of tied together into your processes you have 90 days out 60 days out that kind of stuff that\u0027s all there are just issues and making all this work right no this is a relational place are we really talking about to fully automate the running of EPP client adapting to different registries changing to specifications on-the-fly kind of automated code generation whatever to do this that there you go guys all web client would like deploy a new style of connecting whatever without going through testing just by getting the new definition online so this is Jim Galvin and I\u0027ll give you my partial answer to that others may have a different point of view in fairness what I imagine this registry mapping encompassing is all standard extensions and and yes a standard registry plus extensions that are known and documented and standardized the reality is there are registries which are going to not map right on to this thing it will be different for whatever reason there\u0027ll be things which are unique to them which won\u0027t necessarily be standardized that kind of thing so I mean all of that applies what I do imagine is that at least for us when we have a new service that we\u0027re launching you always have to go through testing or you have to go through three delegation testing so not pre delegation testing you do have to go to OTE it\u0027s gonna Gatien testing yeah right but but I think is as as the other Jim I\u0027ll be the Jim he can be the other Jim said you know you can imagine these "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:23",
    "text": "things being available in Oh teeny first you know so the registrar\u0027s can connect and do their thing and do their own testing and you know then they can you know make their appointments for for being accredited for doing things the the ability of a registrar to do anything that\u0027s in a mapping is dependent on the Registrar having been accredited to do that and so that\u0027s a separate check that the registry has to do on its side even if you see the whole thing you may not be able to do things so there\u0027s yeah there\u0027s there\u0027s still some steps in there it\u0027s not fully automated because there there are some particular decision points that have to be made that are outside the scope of the mapping I don\u0027t know if that helps or not and now we\u0027ll let now I\u0027ll be the the other Germany can be each other but because what what I think is if we talking about now what you say is okay we will have this otome system where we would do it all first then we don\u0027t have you know that we can reduce the complexity in the in the extension because we\u0027re not expecting it to fully automate it work only actually expecting that there is the system aware of the changes coming so I mean that makes a lot easier terms of definition that you want to do what we\u0027re saying is we have a note when we put in the new things we have when a client connecting see that it does the right thing and then the the actual extension on the production system will somehow tell them okay now we change today with at this point in time we\u0027re changing to the new thing but the system is already aware of it because it\u0027s grown testing so we put this way we like I said we currently use this today and in our monitors so in essence our monitors have to react based on what\u0027s going on in the registry based on changes and phases changes in policy so in essence yeah in a perfect world yes you would Auto configure the whole thing and be able to react based on changes if you\u0027re saying that you need to be a little certify that on the client side before that change occurs well that\u0027s what the other Jim said you say the other Jeff said that\u0027s why you do have a separate environment to be able to do that kind of testing so at least we\u0027re getting a notice you have an environment to go to to test it out beforehand before the change actually does occur right yeah I guess the only closing comment that I would make is at least from our point of view the intent is to automate things to the greatest extent possible but there are some manual decision points that have to happen along the way in this and that\u0027s just because some of this is based on contracts you know I mean making extensions you need approvals got to be accredited all that stuff and that\u0027s outside the scope of automation so there are limits but we certainly like to automate it as you said to the greatest extent possible okay yeah and the time check is we are now at the end of our hour so I\u0027ll give you a moment - yeah I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:26",
    "text": "was just gonna say yes now the works time it good discussion today again I think I think that the reason we brought this and continued I I think we tried once before to bring this forward is we do want the group working on we do want these questions you know when I say oh yeah but what about this you know can can we build for that or not and how automated can we make those things now from again the earlier mentioned for GoDaddy this will be great because you know we\u0027ll put the resources to automating this we do have to make considerations for the other registrar\u0027s that don\u0027t have the ability to adapt to this so we can\u0027t say yes you know you\u0027re in configure your system by reading this well you know a few registrar\u0027s may you still have that manual process for other registrar\u0027s as well so I\u0027ll turn back over to the gym all right thanks very much so the blue sheets are up here if you haven\u0027t signed a blue sheet please come up and do that and we will see everybody on Wednesday and I should know off the top of my head when the meeting is on Wednesday but I actually don\u0027t but it is one of these late afternoon meetings again too but we have a 90 minute time slot at that time and so we\u0027ll have a more formal structure to working group meeting then with some discussion so other than that thanks very much everyone see you on Wednesday we should work "
  }
]