[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:22",
    "text": "all right it is 12 30. i think we'll get started um chris thank you for being in the room oh emile's in the room as well [Laughter] all right um this is cdni emil and chris you are in the right room there's no one else here so we can move on um and i think we have glenn on the call i can't see who all is in i see benson yes kristoff i see glenn and a few others yeah good night brothers yeah emil do you want to check if fred is joining because he has a presentation to make all right so here's the note well um please no well you should have seen it many times this week all of your contributions are governed by the policies listed there on the slide if you haven't read them you should go and read them this is cdni um i think do we have a jabber scribe i can see it i'm going to take notes uh if you for the blue sheets you have to log in to meet echo to be counted please do so chris in a meal we are required to wear masks in the room chris and emil uh i think that's it let's move on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "so our milestones um the milestones have been updated you'll notice that uri signing is now in gray we have rfc 9246 congratulations to everybody on getting that across the finish line i did ping phil he's on vacation and couldn't make it but he asked me to take a victory lap for him so congrats everybody yeah i'm happy to have that one done you also see we added a milestone for uh subsert delegation we did the call for adoption there on the list there was support there were no dissents so we went ahead and added that as well any questions and then we still have the acme star the triggers update and the footprint types which we'll talk about today remote access everyone in the room please sign in to meet echo everybody remote has to be on meet echo please use me that go to join the queue and we will call people here's our agenda for today um we will get an update on footprints we did a working group last call sanjay's going to give us an update there we have the triggers update draft acme star and sub search for delegation uh delegation we did do the adoption glenn is going to talk about cdni metadata and the proposal to split the draft chris is here to talk about cta wave the common access token andrew was unable to make it today but capacity advertisement i left here because i do want to discuss it there was a request to adopt this and um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "i think i think it's reasonable i think we want to discuss it a little bit at the end as part of the wrap up uh there's uh one large open question that we're going to ask everyone to please go to the list and weigh in on but otherwise this is the plan for today hopefully it won't take the full two hours any questions comments or dissent all right then we will move on and first up is sanjay all right i think i'll just get the mask out here while i'm speaking um so uh we made some changes in this draft um and um let me so we went to the working group last call and so that's where we are and there are some comments so before i go there let me just quickly give you a recap of what this draft is all about next slide okay so the rfc8006 um in section 4.3.8 defined um country code based on the iso 3166-1 so that's already enshrined in 8006 based on the implementation that we have done on the streaming video alliances open caching working group we went into a situation where we wanted to limit the delegation on within a country plus within a state so as we started to look through that we realized that we can actually achieve that with uh adding a subdivision code which again fortunately was defined in the iso 3166-2 so what we did as part of the implementation and as part of making sure that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "that gets again enshrined into the future rfcs so we came up with this draft where we wanted to add and define this particular subdivision code next slide so how do we really use it so this is an example of the implementation that we have done so i only will speak with that so just as a recap the iso 3166 basically is the country code and to use the iso 3166-2 um you have so here's the format so you have the first two letters that basically follow the iso 3166-1 and then there's a separator and then you have up to three alpha numeric characters to define the subdivision so as you see in the example here the you would define a new footprint type subdivision code and then the value can be for example it can be name of principle subdivision like a province in canada or a state in u.s so footprint value here could be us-ny or us-nj as an example next slide so the the not the rfc but the internet draft is pretty straightforward intent was to define the subdivision code so we've done that and when we went into the working group last call there were a couple of uh feedback that came in one was from benson where he pointed out that there is a more precision if needed within the subdivision and he quoted which i have in the footprint here one and two examples where you have the earth-based coordinates so that gives you know uh granularity to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "the local areas within a subdivision so that was one and then the the next one is um since we have added the footprint type question is in where do you define uh where do you register the uh footprint footprint type so um jensen had suggested a couple of ways so anyway so these are the two items that we have that we got to resolve so let me move to the next slide and kind of talk through each of these two so on on issue number one um the the sense that i i have as we know what we have done with the implementation um was with with a very specific and known use case where we had um wanted to limit delegation based on state and based on the country and state and typically we do cover the uh the local area in the sense that when the content is delegated the content provider the content provider would either use the asn or would use the ip subnet prefix so they are already aware of what local jurisdiction this isp is supporting and where the open caching where the um but the isp has its caches deployed so i think that already kind of uh in a way limits the distribution to that particular local area um so what i'm saying is that you know based on what we have done um our implementation is is quite well met with the requirements that we have on hands um and we don't have any requirements today to be able to do anything more with it but um i i really wanted to just say that maybe if in the future if it becomes a requirement maybe a straightforward draft can be created and submitted um so at least that's that's that's where i stand you know that's what i was thinking but uh certainly um uh you know open to you know feedback"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "here on the in the in the working group session here does anyone want to make a comment at the mic i i agree with it personally as an individual i see chris standing up chris chris uh chris lemon's comcast uh i agree with the approach here um i i think that this problem is very very difficult and very gnarly and solving more than what you have is possibly impossible um implementations would be quite challenging um if it becomes uh significantly important for people to tackle it uh i think that's the time to tackle it uh i think trying to tackle it too early is going to lead to frustration and failure okay okay i think that makes sense thank you okay so um why don't we move to issue number two so um i think there's a wholehearted agreement that we need to have a place where we want to register this new footprint subsection so the when we were talking about it at that point the i didn't write down the rfc number here but i think it's 92 something but they were already in the in flight it was kind of too late for us to be able to you know do anything there um so the option is that we either create add this into the existing draft but then we have to somehow point to the alto entity also if we do that the the second would be a simpler option where we submit a new document to the alto working group um where we can update the ultra entity domain type registry with this new one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "so i have to discuss this more with near but i think we're thinking on maybe we can follow it up by taking the number two option but i would say that i'll keep it open we want to i want to review this with near and see how you know what's the best way to do it okay i think either option is okay um i do want to get this draft out it's pretty much done i would love to just push it to the isg so if we can make a quick update i'm happy taking it uh if we can't i'm happy to say we'll submit a separate draft so okay and and i know you had posted some more comments earlier today so uh in the next trap we'll definitely have those updates done yeah those were those were all just knits if you want to sneak this in with it go for it if not then yeah yeah [Music] i think i'll probably stay here be at the next next again is this your last slide uh this is the last slide yes question sorry go ahead emil i'm not sure it's going to help but do you hear me yes so i am immune from orange just uh perhaps you can add you see in the iron section what you want to be added in the alto registry directly i don't know yeah i mean it shouldn't be a lot of text right the registry is now created we know we want to add it i assume that the expert reviewers will accept it it's not a huge threat i don't think to being in this draft just to be sure that i'm trying to help but naturally let it help perhaps it will uh avoid you to to make a document for the alto just putting in the ayanna what you want in the registry and yeah i think okay i think so just to recap just to make sure that i understand what you're saying what you're saying is that in in our draft in create an inner"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "section and edit in there yeah on a double check it's the same but having a document going back without yeah i think yeah emile's point is it would be more efficient for everyone if we just put it all in one draft right yeah simple yeah yeah all right but we will see yeah yeah thanks okay sanjay you're up again all right so this is the um rfc8007 bis um and there's a there's a quite a bit of history here so i i thought that maybe i'll just take some time to quickly walk you through what we have done and also the motivation for some of the the fixing up that we we think would be appropriate for this rfc8007 in a way that it can it can um stand on its own and allow for future extensions done easily on it so keep that as a living document so um that's what we have so i'll just give you a quick background and what we have done and what still needs to be done so if this slide is basically just showing that the rfc8007 when it was created was simply intended to to ensure that the upstream cdn has a way that it can communicate down to the downstream cdn and tell what it needs it to do so the way this rfc807 was created was to allow to have a trigger mechanism where ucdn can can trigger something to say send a metadata or content and then have the downstream cdn execute that and then also let upstream cdn know the status of it so that was the initial purpose and and it did well you know for what it did so and the essentially it was addressing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "the preposition invalidation and purge so it did that part and let me move to the next slide and show what we added on top um so what we have done is that we we added um we extended some of the capability uh in this draft by adding error propagation meaning that associate the downstream cdn because you could have cascaded downstream cdns going up to the ucd ucdn so have a way that we can identify where the error occurred uh by associating the dcdn where that error occurred when it sends up the propagation so that was one thing we added and also on the trigger we extended that a little bit more to have some more precision uh in terms of adding the time policy and also the location policy and then um added more flexibility in content selection to be able to have regular expression and also define the playlist so this was um from um eight zero zero seven two eight zero zero best what we actually um added in terms of new content uh to the to the rfc next slide so um this is kind of really i'm repeating the same thing again so this already existed and now if you hit kevin one down arrow so trigger extension as i showed in the previous slide was something that we added one more hit and then again repeating the same thing from the previous slide we added these two items as well so this was all good in terms of what we edit but what it also meant that we needed to create from version one to version two in order to add anything new because we can add it but the extensive the um there was no way that you can add"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "into what was previously defined so we ended up creating a new version v2 now the concern we have is that if and this is still not future proof that if you wanted to add something more then you would have to create version three so if you hit one more time kevin so let's say if you wanted to define a new content a new method then that would require you to define a new trigger v3 and if you in the future define something else then it'll be a v4 so as you can see this can become very soon very unwieldy so um what we thought was that either we can just you know be done with our changes what we what i showed you previously and um you know say that we're done um but i think as we looked at it and we discussed this with kevin we thought that it might be uh useful to make this rfc more extensible so what we have what i wanted to show you in the next few slides is uh we have not added any new um material into the rfc but what we've done is is reform it reform it the what's already in there in a way that it becomes more extensible so next slide please so the the changes that we have done currently is that what you see everything in the green here um basically we introduce additional flexibility to the trigger interface to allow a specification of the triggers targets um by creating a trigger spec so you take everything that you see on the green and we we basically define a generic trigger specs and moved everything under there so basically you have a generic trigger spec object that acts as a wrapper for managing individual cdni triggers um that you would want to use so this way if you need something in the future then you don't have to do a new version version b3 but you should be able to add into the trigger specs and this is also completed so far in the draft that we have next slide"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "um likewise um so this is just an example that we have the target and then the second major bullet shows basically where the specific subject to which you can apply that target to and the only thing i want to say here is that we have we would have to define we would have to register these trigger specs into the cdna payload so that would be something that we have to do next slide and this is just really showing you in the example mode of what we have done so you have the spec subject and you have the generic trigger type and the value so the subject is in this case uh metadata and the where you want to apply this to the type is the cit url spec and then the value to which the url to which you're applying that metadata to so that's the implementation part of it and this is also done next slide okay this is the overall example of uh the how the trigger would basically be working um so okay can you go back one more slide slide 11. did i miss something okay yeah um so the other change that we are proposing is uh to basically how we want to handle so right now we have these uh pre-positioning of the data or invalidation or part um so what what we in order to make this also extensible is that we are defining a new trigger type call action and then have everything uh positioning in validation and purge under the action so that again if you need to add something more you would be able to easily extend it and the next slide is the example of how you actually implement it so if you go to the next slide yeah so this is the example of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "how that is implemented so if you see the trigger.v2 so the action is the prepositioning and then the specs are defined so that would be a metadata and then you have the url underneath it so you can easily define and if you have any future actions you can easily add those new actions so this is also completed in the in the draft that we have next slide and more of the same so we've done the same thing for the status and for the error adjusting the error object basically what we're saying is that remove the metadata urls um and just add it to the spec list and in the spec list you only want to add um list out those to which this error would apply to and the same goes for the status as well and the next slide shows the implementation how this is done so again you have the the error.v2 and you have the specs which defines the subject is content and then the trigger type is the url and then the value which is the url itself so um and you you only want to include error where it actually occurred and nothing else so this kind of keeps it very simple and it makes future implementations um that wants to extend it very easily that can be accomplished next slide so if i recap again um what we've done is that really um other than adding the the time policy which i think i showed on slide two all of the work that i showed you in the previous five or six slides is just basically reformatting the uh rearranging the rfc in a manner that becomes extensible so with all the changes that we have done it's pretty you know broad based changes so what we where we are right now is that um we want to do a uh needed"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "as co-authors going to do a pretty broad sweep of all the changes we have done publish the um the draft um with those changes it's just really editorial uh review that we want to do and um then there are a couple of things that are still outstanding that we think we want to clean up for example that we realize that the the document we have two forms we know one is if you look at the url spec that's built purely on on strings and then we have other places like the uri parents pack which is more like dictionary so to keep consistency between how we have how we want to read the draft so we're thinking that we'll probably build everything in the dictionary form so that will be easier and it will be consistent across the document so that's the only outstanding changes that we have to do um besides doing a full review um so that we clean up we just clean up the document so we will do that and then publish plan is to publish this much before the iit ietf 115 in november so that folks have a clean version that they can review and then we can basically go from there so i think the ask is um the content is there um if folks want to go review it they should go and review it make sure um there was a thread on the list that that died out but we should just make sure everyone has reviewed it and is happy with the changes i think they're good changes personally um and then you guys are going to do a cleanup in general yes because knits and whatnot um so i think that's a good idea before the next ietf and we can use that as we can decide once that comes out yeah okay anyone have thoughts comments questions all right then um let me hang the mic here then next up is frederick"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:10",
    "text": "yeah we can hear you okay hi everyone so i will give you a quick update on our draft cdna interfaces https delegation next like please so so far we have made a few changes in the last version um we immediately changed the abstract we clarified some aspects in the abstract we clarified also the introduction to make a focus [Music] on acme star on the eggmaster draft since the separation of the draft and we corrected some typos also what we have done we removed the security and privacy concerns now the document is we said that the document is mainly based on the on the concern in rfcs in reference rfcs um yeah next time so so far i think we have reached the main objective we did not have any more comments on the on the on the draft so we can safely ask for the working group last score and [Music] i don't know if everyone is okay with that um i'm just gonna stay here i'm not"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "gonna walk over that mic that's okay with folks uh i send out some comments this morning to the list um frederick uh okay latest version of the draft so everyone we should actually so we should we should go through those um there's a couple of things in there that i think we still need to look at uh i think we don't necessarily need a new fci object because it is metadata we could just use the existing metadata fci object and i don't remember what the other comment was um i think that uh some clean up on on section four i don't think we necessarily need to go over how metadata works so much as just you know talk about what the new metadata is and then uh i need to go back and see what was removed from the security concerns uh security section i would like to add at least one or two sentences in there on what this is um maybe there's a happy medium but then there's some nits as well so if you guys could take a look at that and then we can think about working groups last call after the next draft i think we're pretty close but okay okay so yeah i will uh have a look at your comments and uh yeah um fred i also just um wanted to say that um uh thomas is um one of the co-authors for the star acme draft on which this draft is based on and he has indicated as you know but i just wanted to share it in the list here in the group here that thomas is also doing a review uh this document this draft actually what you should do is um fred shared the github link repository with everyone on the mailing list so that folks that are reviewing it can create a pr um but what i was saying was that thomas"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "has um thomas for sari has said that he's doing a review and he'd be posting his comment on the github that you have created so thanks for that okay good i i will uh pause the the github link on the mailing chris this is chris comcast i i have the smallest of process knits on the slides um we probably can't mark these orange restricted uh slides they should be for unlimited distribution yeah you're right so a little late to change it now but just a note for next time yes thanks still upload corrections i believe so that's yeah thanks good point yeah thank you um any other questions comments for this draft all right um fred take a look at the the comments and and we'll look at the next one and i would like to be able to get this the last call before the next ietf so um okay update everyone please read the draft and and we can move along on the list great thank you joe thank you bye-bye um next up is kristoff yeah hello can you hear me yes we can hear you okay so yeah so that's the draft on um um on dedicated credentials so next slide so it was um oh there's a missing slide now so okay so it was in in individual draft and now it's a working group draft so it changed the name and the number um so the the scope is to define fci and mi"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:03",
    "text": "objects to to have dedicated credentials as defined in a draft which is defined in another working group in itf so compared to the previous version um so the previous version there were the mechanism uh based on a simple http get that specified how to get those delegated credentials so this is probably out of scope of cdni so we removed that from this draft and um and and accordingly we removed uh the mi object conf delegated credential which contained the ul where you could fetch those dedicated credentials and instead of using this mechanism now we rely on the more classical way of cni based on an fci delegated credential object which allows the downstream cdn to announce the number of dedicated credentials needed so knowing that uh the dedicated credentials have a limited lifetime so the downstream cdn would need to well some time before the expiry of the dedicated credential announced that it needs a new delegated credential which maybe will limit a bit the dynamicity of the mechanism which is proposed here but it could do the job to start with and um and then the upstream cdn can basically push dedicated credential objects which contains an array of delegated credentials according to the number requested by the downstream cdn so next slide christoph um i don't know if you saw i sent an email to the list earlier this morning on on that thread as well as to whether or not we can get away with not using fci and just having the the metadata but um so if you get a chance take a look at that i don't i don't think we need to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "have the discussion here but um i i think this is a big point that we need to get to some closure on on what is the correct way to to specify how many um search you need yeah how many and how to renew expiring once yeah okay i will have a look at your mail i haven't seen it yet yeah we can continue that discussion on the list i encourage others to also chime in thank you so that's um two examples on how those objects could look like uh so on the left you have the fci delegated credential you you the the most interesting part is those [Music] number of dedicated credentials needed a certificate is needed and and on the right you have the mi object which is just an array of dedicated credentials next slide so that's the definition of the objects where you have the the different properties i just showed in the example um you know nothing special here and maybe the next slide then the other changes so there's a uh new sections on security and privacy considerations that i added um so i i invite you to have a look at those and to see if it covers everything that needs to be covered and also in the delegated credentials object now the private key is optional so that you can either decide that the upstream cdn generates the keys for the drone stream sedan which is maybe not always the recommended way of doing things so it's also possible that the downstreams again generates the [Music] the keys and um and we don't specify within the draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "how the downstream cdn communicates the public keys to the upstream cdn and that is uh has to be done somewhere else and then the upstream cnn can just push the the generated delegated credentials and i think that's my last slide any questions comments um this is sanjay um i've also posted out some minor comments uh kristoff to the mailing list just wanted to make sure that you it's their simple changes and it changes but i just wanted to make sure that they don't fall through the cracks and you you catch those okay now we have a look yeah so my feeling is that the main point is having this discussion about the fci object and maybe the male you said kevin and to follow up all this on the on the mailing list yeah i i held off on on nits because i just wanted to close on the fci versus metadata thing first i mentioned there may be some changes sounds good anyone else all right thank you kristoff thanks glenn is up next hello hear me yes very good all right so we decided not to do a update to the draft for this session but uh and we'll get into why exactly so uh go ahead next slide so again for those of you not familiar with what we've been doing here um you know the sva as we you know built out all the open caching standards and looked at needs of the cdn industry in general uh wanted to have a standard model for cdn and open caching type"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "configurations obviously the cdni uh metadata object model in rfco 806 was a fantastic starting point so we've been uh pouring on many new generic metadata objects we're not messing with the original structure at all and additionally uh within the sba we've defined two apis for moving this information around our simple api which is more or less derived from the simple mi interface in 806 but importantly adds a push mechanism the original work was only really about uh dcdn's pulling metadata from uc cdns but in many cases in the industry in fact it's the other way around a content provider or upstream cdn needs to publish metadata downstream so we took on that we will also be taking on work to create we call an advanced configuration metadata api which once you get into the world of pushing metadata downstream uh you've really in our simple api it's one atomic operation when you push it you're assuming you're publishing a new version of a configuration and you're deploying it out into production it's sort of a one one shot thing which you know might be a little dangerous so uh in our advanced api we plan on uh making distinct activities between publishing or saving a new version of a config and actually having it deployed into an operational environment those two apis we actually at this time don't plan on moving those into ietf but those could move at some point the focus of our work uh overlapping with sba and iatf for metadata has been on the model itself go ahead next slide glenn i have one question comment um so cd and i for right or wrong made a decision a long time ago that we would do triggered pulls only rather than pushes on metadata is i'm wondering is the push"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "just an optimization or is there a specific other rationale behind needing push versus triggered pull i think well there's probably a lot of different reasons for it but i'm thinking at it in terms of just a content provider configuring their cdns that's how they do it the content provider is beforehand setting up their cdn configuration with information about their sources or origins caching rules etc um and it just the industry has always sort of done it as a you set up your configuration and then you're ready for operation as opposed to a triggered pull as uh as uh as requests are being uh encountered got it okay so yeah because content provider to ucdn was determined to be out of scope originally we did not consider we did not accept that use case i actually had a draft that proposed it but yeah so we're very much making that on here and as a result that was one the drive was for a push got it thank you yep good um all right uh next slide yeah just a refresher for everyone what the cdni r806 model looks like and the fact that the extensions we're adding are really just new generic metadata objects uh for the advanced api we will be introducing a wrapper that sort of sits on top of the host index and puts the host index into context uh but that's really out of scope for this discussion so essentially we're adding things above the above the structural metadata here and below the structural metadata here okay next yeah um again just sort of status of where we are on this mission we did publish sva version 1.0 of this document set uh uh like i said the model uh is in one document the model extensions and the api is in another document that was put out beginning of this year um we're working now just on a minor set"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "of updates as folks in open caching industry start to really work with this nothing big there we're aiming for a version two for the end of the year though and that version two will have some major updates which i'll get into in a minute more extensions to the metadata model and the advanced api um the iatf draft that we did um we which was set at version two we presented an ietf 113 it basically is a parallel document a mirror of our part 2 document in sva world post extensions so that's where we are right now um like i said we're going to pause the ietf work until and go to the next slide yeah um you know kevin this is based on feedback you gave early on and as we started building this thing out more and more it's just become a behemoth you know and not manageable so we're not exactly sure how many separate ietf drafts this is going to be six might be the right number um this is how we've been tending to organize them in our document as we've been authoring it um but the metadata expression language and the processing stages clearly i think are big enough to be on their own the expression language uh is a dependency for some of the extensions and so there would be some cross-references between these but we've generally architected things where you can um use of the expression language may be optional you can still do some interesting things in processing stages without the expression language but the processing stages is you know much richer capabilities with the expression language so there will be some dependencies there um cache control metadata as i've called out here is just sort of a series of uh objects these are all anything in black here you already will have seen in our current ietf drafts anything in red is what's going to be coming soon so you've already seen the set of cash"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "control policies we proposed for positive and negative cashing rules some cash bypass rules etc but those all could be grouped up nicely into a pretty brief ietf draft the source access control is a layer of things that go above the original um mi source metadata and we've already done a bunch of things there there's a lot of new work being done and i have a slide on it if we have some time we can get to on source connection control this is one of the biggest new areas we're putting in where you can configure lots of rules about how a downstream cdn or really how a cdn uh should deal with errors from the origin or the source of the upstream cdn depending on your point of view how to handle timeouts retries errors and there's a pretty rich data model now being built uh within the generic uh metadata object framework to express all of this um but that certainly will be big enough to put all of this in its own draft client access control here um we'll define auth token metadata this probably will be um i know as the seat work with cta wave uh pans out and chris lemmons has been you know driving a lot of that they will have an mi object of some kind i don't think we have any other document to put that mi document in so we would probably put it in a draft here along with some new work that's been done on specifying how tls certificate credentials protocols and ciphers get set up uh for access and this uh certificate and encryption metadata um will actually ride on top of the um certificate uh delegation work that mi comp delegated credentials object and it'll wrap that and use that so there's a lot of work this is all still work actively being defined we have nothing really to show yet and then the final category would be edge control metadata and again anything in black here this is in the current"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "iatf draft which you can see the chorus headers downstream compression policies uh traffic types the new thing here just like we've got source connection control for upstream this is downstream and this would be how a cdn or an open caching node should deal with timeouts retries etc from client connections uh so a lot of new work coming here um any comments or discussion about the merits or uh pitfalls of going with so many drafts it's just so much material kevin anything you want to say about that i i think it's a good idea i don't know if six is the correct number or not um but but i like i like seeing it broken down um i think it will certainly help with our ability to push things through um with the new stuff i guess we'll have to see how that plays out and obviously you can bring it in as early as you want and have the discussion on the cdna mailing list as well chris can't hear you oh you want to use this mic you can use yeah take this one whatever it works the uh uh so first question was um uh charter wise um some of this may not be in our current charter so we should check and do the appropriate things depending"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "on what that looks like uh this is one of the reasons we've kept the apis out of the out of this because those definitely the push that was not part of the chart right um and then the second part is i want to express uh significant support and excitement for the metadata or the metadata expression language i think that has a lot of really good stuff in it and uh is quite exciting do you feel that that is one of the things that should that could be outside of our scope i don't think that it should be outside of our scope okay but i don't have an official opinion on what the charter says understood thank you tom hi there tom hill bt i'm um very new to this working group i don't think i've even joined the list yet but i had a i noticed a couple of words that made a lot of sense to me um uh you're talking about modeling of uh metadata modelling of data in general i'm curious as to what decision perhaps was went into not using yang for example coming up with a different expression language and is there is there room in this work um for also having a a you know a young model um to to do the same work and the reason i do the reason i mention this is because when you talk about automation around this work everyone is used to working in yang at this point um very very significant amount of uh effort goes into that and familiarity so i'm i'm i'm i'm totally new to this i'm if there's a completely really good reason for not going anywhere near young fine other than personal preference i'm curious um i really can't personally speak to that the expression language work did come from work done at lumen i've got one of the lumen engineers on here with me but he's listening but i think he doesn't have an account set up to speak but um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "we'll take that on in the in the um in the email in the uh discussion thread but this was based on some work done by uh lumen over the years and our internal cdn and we've generalized it for the purposes here so that's we'll get back to you all right are we ready to continue hello it's not your glenn it seems to be something in the room or something like that hey are you are you familiar with your hand and audio oh so we we lost them okay hopefully someone should see and fix that shortly so willpower if you're on you may be listening but i think you can't speak uh we may want to address yang i'm not are any of you guys familiar with yang i personally am not i think we're coming back in no not familiar with yang but i just hope they're coming back at least the deck's coming back i i'm not very expensive but i feel that we are doing with male but it's good to discuss that on the list hello"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "can you hear me now someone from mitako just said it looks like a network issue and they're investigating okay yeah kevin just replied looks like the pc in the room is gone decided to go offline i did my two minutes of research on yang yeah it's a data modeling language and we're really looking at an expression language so i think it's a little bit different yeah i think so use it extensively at smo on the other side of our business for configuring telecom hardware uh you know access nodes and things like that if that modeling language also has a component of it which uh you know or a part of it which is an expression language that might be adaptable um even if we don't use yang itself maybe some parts of that expression language syntax might be easy to carry forward into our spec i have there are some yang experts over here that i could bring in for further discussions if we wanted to do that oh they're back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "has the discussion been going on online without the room yeah yeah yeah we uh we realized you guys disappeared so so we didn't hear you for the last five minutes glenn and everybody else because we in the room were lost well we started with who knows what yang is kind of went from there but we did we did our quick uh you know look at looking around i i think you know as far as a language to define the model i think you know cdni kind of already has that but i think the and i can show an expression actually if you want to just go ahead a couple of slides kevin just uh whoever had asked that question about yang i probably hasn't seen our work go ahead a little more i'll tell you when to stop more more more more yeah deeper dive more more more uh yeah right here so this is the kind of thing we're doing in the expression language this may be an example of where you want to apply some metadata maybe a different caching rule something like this different ttls caching rules cache keys and you'd want to do it in this example you know matching on a particular value of a user agent string and a referrer um or the expression language you might use to synthesize the value of a cookie while you're dynamically setting a cookie so i don't know if that's helpful to see but that's the kind of thing we're doing in the expression language but um we will we'll address yang and you know in the uh in the uh mailing list discussion thread yes let's go back to where we were in the deck let's see if i can get there yeah okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "all right glenn one second okay yeah so uh i think we can move past this move on to the next slide wrap it up here yeah so um as we have discussed um each of these new metadata uh objects that we um define you know may or may not be supported by a downstream cdn and dcdns need a way to advertise their capabilities fci is our mechanism for advertising your capabilities per footprint and your supported footprints um we've currently used the fci metadata object which was initially defined and i like that object it's simple you just basically list out uh by name all the generic metadata objects you support and that's the end of it um we do have some generic meta data objects that had such rich set of features in them that there's some granularity you may support some but not all of the capabilities and this is where we defined some new fci objects for this um and there's sort of a question about where these fci objects should live uh that we want to talk about a little bit we can go to the next slide yeah discussion items that's going to go right to that um kind of open for discussion where do we think the best place to define um fci objects should they be in the fci spec should or should they be sitting here in you know wherever we wherever we propose a new generic metadata object that's a fine place to also propose a companion fci object that may go with it to allow advertising of the capabilities uh any thoughts on that we can have a discussion i see rajiv in the queue is that old okay that one uh i was getting into the queue for the second part so if someone wants to go before me please do okay um i think personally that putting the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:02",
    "text": "fci object next to the metadata object that it is describing makes sense but i will ask whether or not you need an fci object if you are just if you're just advertising you support a given metadata there is an fci object for metadata i support but if there are specific parameters and other configuration for that metadata that you have to specify then i think that goes with the metadata object so that it's not split across multiple documents and you can read that yeah whenever possible if it's just a high-level generic metadata object and do i support it yes or no fci that metadata does the trick and we have nothing new to define it's for these uh ones that are either sub-objects or i support parts of it or aspects of it but not others and and i like this approach as well that i that you're suggesting that we keep it in the same document that proposes the uh new generic metadata object and i think uh sanjay we may want to reorient some of our work in svsva for example so that our fci document doesn't have duplicative definitions in it yeah if there are no other comments on that we can move to the second discussion item i know rajiv you would put this on the pile so if you want to address that yeah so back to that other slide sorry yeah so this is basically something that came up you know with our work in a number of other components of uh you know the overall open kitchen ecosystem um various other apis and one very important one which i forgot to put in as an exam example of where we need this is the home storage and education edge storage and home storage use case so the idea here is the fact that at the moment footprints can be defined by the downstream cdn but we don't really have a mechanism of referencing"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "those defined footprints uh you know there's no concept of either tagging or naming the footprints in any way and this might be something that is very useful uh for a number of other services and apis that are going to be you know powering some sort of interaction between the upstream and downstream cdns the most common use case that can uh you know work for this is um the edge storage uh use case so um when you uh have a setup where you want to say i want to pre-cache a certain piece of content not across your entire downstream cdn network but over a certain subset of it okay um so when we were talking about this content management api uh discussion a lot of discussions came about hey we can use uh we can have this scoping as a part of the content management api itself but then that brings in a whole lot of other problems saying what if upstream cdn wants to define a region or an area in some way that isn't supported or understood by the downstream cdn and the general consensus was that the only thing that you can definitively know that the downstream is going to support is what it advertises which is its footprints okay so it would it would be very helpful if those advertised footprints had some mechanism for us to refer to them and use them in all of these other apis you know content management api capacity logging everywhere else and then it becomes a decision of the downstream cdn to decide how granular they want of the upstream cdn control to be if they want the upstream cdn to have a very granular level of control they"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "just define and publish very small granular footprints whereas if they don't want to maybe expose that you know they only define more broad generic footprints there's an additional discussion point there uh in terms of going down the road of having overlapping and or composite footprint objects but we'll um that that is a bridge we cross later once we understand and agree on the fact that name footprints might be necessary okay i'm from the queue kevin ma um i'm i'm not exactly sure what the what the ask is here or what it is we're trying to accomplish the the dcdn can advertise the as much granularity as it wants we specifically didn't we specifically tried to not say anything about what footprints mean because we can't know for any given pair of cdns what their out-of-band contractual agreements are about how much they want to divulge and we don't want to force any downstream cdn to have to divulge anything specific so um i'm not sure what it is the the question is here or what we're trying to achieve is it just i mean because if there are out of band um actions that say hey between us we agree that banana is this or orange is that and then you can use that elsewhere um but within within cdni it's not um within scope right yeah so so um i i totally get what you're saying in terms of their uh you know not being um an interest in forcing a cdn to necessarily divulge their internal uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "network architecture um but at the same time a footprint does not necessarily have to be closely tied into the specific network architecture okay and it's it's always something that it's a choice of the dcdn in terms of what we want to do and while an upstream and downstream may say okay um we have an understanding that oranges x and banana is white at the moment when i'm as a downstream cdn in fci when i'm defining footprints i have no way to say okay this footprint is orange and this footprint is banana right so um i have i have no mechanism of tagging those or naming those footprints in any reasonable way that could potentially be used by an upstream cdn to refer to a subset of the footprints that i have published so that's yeah that's our basic concern okay so potentially the solution there is to have a new footprint type that has an opaque name that does not it's not a cider it's not a country code it is just no no no um so so i'm i'm not looking at um using this as a replacement for footprints so the footprint definition of the scope of the footprint is there i'm saying like i will still define ciders i will still define a sense um i will still define geographical regions but each of those definitions i will then want to have a certain uh label on that defined footprint as a group so i mean i may define all say the states uh if i'm using say geographical and subdivision level uh you know footprinting i may define a footprint that lists all of the u.s east coast states okay and then be able to reference that uh specific footprint and say hey in my capacity or so in my content"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "management api i want this particular piece of content to be pre-warmed um in the downstream cdn but on this particular named footprint which may be u.s east for example um okay so that that's that's what i'm not looking at changing the way in which the footprints are defined i just want to be able to address and uh target specific defined footprints okay um i think my suggestion would be we have a footprint draft open and would adding a label to footprint union solve the problem an opaque string that that would work um though i haven't read that draft yet that's going to be on my list of to-do things and if needed i can probably work on some text around a proposal for that okay i would i would i would encourage you to read that draft quickly it's a short read and if there's something that we can add that addresses this problem um that would be possibly an easy way to do it okay and in terms of the additional discussion point that we had now this is more of a you know a thought exercise to figure out whether um it is even advisable for us to do things like either overlapping footprints or composite footprint objects so let's say you know i want to have the ability both to specify a footprint that covers say new york city and uh boston while still also having a footprint that covers the us east coast okay so uh this is effectively a scenario where i'm going to be looking at uh you know uh different footprint objects but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "which may have overlapping definitions okay or overlapping selectors so um is that i just wanted to know if you've had a lot of discussion around that in the group in the past because um i am a relative newcomer both to the group and to the sva i i don't think we've ever made any restrictions around overlapping footprints that is up to this two cdn's to determine how they want to use them okay so so maybe we have rajiv we have yes so hold on a second we have three other folks on the mailing on the list here so why don't we switch over there first and then come back okay matt go ahead just uh a couple of of reactions because i i do think that there is uh uh a use for the kinds of of of situations that rajiv's describing um but i think that it can get really hairy the compo the composite footprint stuff can get hairy uh because you're you know it it entirely depends on how the dc dn structures their capacity and there's no way to effectively manage that so i i would say you know maybe one way to to potentially resolve this i do like kevin your suggestion about the idea of having a name a name maybe that's optional so that you can have a uh essentially a footprint by value and and a footprint by reference essentially which is what i think that enables you to do and then the other piece that we might want to consider and i'll i'll be honest i haven't looked at these uh specs in a while so it's a little hazy but um if there's a way to essentially"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:03",
    "text": "uh ask the dcdn to say hey if i give you know if give them a footprint structure and say can you can you support this thing and then get a signal back that says yes and here's a label to use if you want to talk about that then that might be a way to potentially allow us to do this but not have kind of this explosion of composite footprint patterns that may or may not be supported those kinds of things so just a couple of thoughts in in in this context thank you uh alfonso yeah thank you um and regarding all these um because we were thinking about the use case kevin has before that maybe he has no clear use case but the question for kevin and sanjay if you recall in any discussion in the past the relationship but what's what happens if a thompson cdn announcing multiple footprint with different capabilities because at the end we have a set of capability plus footprint and those could be different in such a cdn that is an hybrid with different capabilities in different footprint how to manage the um metadata configuration because one of the things that we have seen is that there isn't typically no way to define a different metadata uh perfect footprint so if you have a dumpster cdn with different capabilities in a different set of footprint uh it seems there is no way to define a configuration that um grab all the possibilities so i don't know if there's this has been discussing in the past around this in the cdni i don't i don't think that we've had we've addressed that level of complexity yet so it's it's a reasonable question to ask yeah because this is the thing when they say in the slide example consumers uh is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "is related to that so what's going on if i have a very high capacity service with a lot of functionalities and some others that with less capacity or maybe a one server can produce a format of login and another more simplified format on login how an upstream could configure that without using the footprint so uh okay naming could be a use case for all for that understood i think i think we should this is a this is probably a bigger topic that we should probably discuss on the list um based off some text uh thank you for clarifying that though um that's that's good to know glenn do you want to continue yeah i can continue and wrap things up pretty quickly just on this point though i was going to add one of the things we have added in our advanced api and the model will touch on is this idea of named metadata so you're familiar with the href mechanism that's currently in cdni to define objects out in a separate url we have added a capability where when a tree of metadata is published in our advanced api it can use href and reference a named set of metadata with you know uh anchor tag type of syntax um to reference it by name and and uh in the publishing operation uh metadata tree you know the host index and its metadata and a set of named objects are published together the reason i bring this up is it could be a fine mechanism to have sort of a shortcut of named footprints like us east and then you could just refer to it as us east over and over again so that mechanism may be handy for the discussion we've had here um let's go ahead and move on though and i can wrap up real quick so deeper dive let's kind of just go next slide i just want to give people some stuff just to look at this we've"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:00",
    "text": "talked about before but for anyone who hasn't seen processing stages uh people new to this this is this ability to apply metadata at any of these four points in a typical um cdn request response chain um and you can have a conditional metadata based on matching expression to apply metadata before or after you go to the origin or to apply metadata after you pull things out of cache for example so that's just here for reference next slide um i presented this before this is the the object model again i just have it here for posterity this is all the objects we've added for processing stages processing stages example and next slide uh next we talked about this next slide final slide here this is just a preview of the metadata model that goes with um source metadatas from the original rfc806 we have a source metadata extended uh that added to that and put source metadata in a context where you can have some more first of all more attributes but also failover rules everything you see here in the bottom source connection control timeout actions this is the data structure we're proposing it would go in one of those new rfcs to describe how to handle errors from a source or from an origin so i just wanted to show this to give a sense of the order of magnitude of the new stuff coming that's it thank you glenn there's obviously a lot in here um i look forward to seeing the drafts um and we'll take it from there i will go back and watch the recording and try and figure out what you guys talked to when we disappeared for a bit and put that in the minutes um but otherwise thank you and chris you're out yeah all right i'm chris collins and am i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:00",
    "text": "is that one guy also [Music] dead battery dead battery all right some real friday energy on the uh mics you want to take this mic really we are down to one mic in the room it's not battery powered okay we should be good all right uh chris lemmons i'm here at the moment on behalf of the cta wave common access token working group next slide so start with some background catch everybody up to speed for where we are this is a follow-up to a presentation i did uh just letting people know where the work was uh at last ietf and so this is uh mostly going to be a catch-up uh but this is the work of the cta and the software video alliance and i apologize to the sva for failing to note the combined efforts it is a collaboration project and these specifications will be published jointly by the two groups so uh the focus is quite clearly on streaming media that's where the energy in the room is and our goal is to have a single token that covers all of the existing industry usage so that we can drive adoption the goal is really to drive adoption next slide this is cwt based so the uri citing token that you may be familiar with from this group is jwt based so it's a very similar concept except binary which means that decoding will be faster require less memory and it will work better at scale"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "another change is that receivers need to be able to support almost all of the claims there are way more musts in this document issuers can't rely on token portability unless they can be sure that all of their claims that they put in these tokens are actually going to be supported on all of the intermediaries that they want to use so we have a whole lot more musts and since this token is not a not part of the cdni infrastructure it doesn't have any built-in delegation support that said it does support all the same sorts of things as the uri signing token so if somebody wanted to build delegation support and write that document it wouldn't be hard next slide what's new since last time we have a concrete a more concrete list of claims and we've nailed a whole lot more things down one of the big changes is we have moved the encrypted claims into a generic composite claim and uh instead of having encrypted and unencrypted variations of the claims we revamped the way renewal works and we are still very much working on the if claim and i'll get into all of this in a little bit next slide these are the core claims these are the claims you know and love they're the basics they're what a cwt has next slide these are the general uh cat claims these are the claims that describe how the token um what kinds of requests the token authorizes uh you can see this is a little bit more than the uri signing token out of this group but it's a similar concept we've got the the network claim is still in there um it now is using"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:02",
    "text": "uh the it's using these uh seabor uh ip objects that were just published in the rfc as of december and those objects are either ip addresses or ciders quite usefully and so this quite naturally lends itself well to a claim um if it is overly specific the network claim does have to be encrypted we'll get into that in a second next slide go back a slide i want to talk a little bit about the the ones that come later down um we also have um restrictions based on the method so that you can issue tokens that are only valuable for uh pushing or getting or uh posting or whatever is appropriate for your specification uh this extends it a little bit past the typical streaming media use cases uh but a typical intermediary should be uh fairly capable of implementing these we also have geographic country restrictions uh that that is actually that should actually be country slash subdivision um because it allows that same uh iso i don't recall the number um basically country-subdivision code or just country right there and the country does not have to be encrypted but we are working on a geographic detail restriction that does uh we don't have any details around that yet though and then lastly we've got the tls public key claim which is a very interesting claim it allows you to issue a token that can only be redeemed by someone who has a particular tls certificate and so this allows d-pop style um use of uh self-signed certificates"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:03",
    "text": "next slide regime do you have a question right on this slide um more on observation i just thought it might be interesting to mention that we are also discussing having asn's now being supported inside uh network claims in addition to um ip objects yeah i should have i should have been clear on that one yeah so the asn is also a valid network claim so if you just put a number in there it's in asn yeah hey uh richard patterson uh sky uk um the network uh again i'm i'm like tom i'm very new to this um uh the network claim there you mentioned ip addresses or ciders i guess my general concern for these types of authentication token things is when you start uh start hashing or buying or binding the ips into them first question dual stack what happens when happy eyeballs bounces between v4 and v6 uh then what happens if the v6 address rotates privacy extensions all that sort of stuff so that's a question that's an excellent question the answer to all of those questions is it doesn't work um and we have multiple paragraphs of text in the uh document that say basically don't use this um this is not for identity binding um you can't assume that someone's ip address is going to be really anything there are still some use cases for networks one of the classic ones is please let anyone in who is on 10 dot address right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "because i know that that network is different and so um uh the goal here is not to uh define anyone's business model or what their particular tasks are uh we want to provide general purpose tools with enough guidance so that people don't shoot themselves in the foot but this is the foot gun claim yeah the guidance is there um and there's actually quite a bit of it we've tried to take this out three times uh every time we we always wind up coming up with some use cases that somebody genuinely has that are legitimate appropriate and uh needs these claims so that's where we are on that one i see a rajiv yeah um i think another point that needs to be made here is that in our draft um i believe we have specific guidance that says that um any any uh ip object that's used in the network claim that's more granular than a slash 24 or a slash 56 as the case may be has to be encrypted am i right yes next slide okay so uh the composition claims uh as was being referred to um we have the encrypted claim uh this is a cozy object uh it's a direct uh envelope that is a claim that contains other claims so all the composition claims contain claims inside them and so when you get an encrypted claim you have you have to have the encryption key then you can decrypt it and then you put all of the claims that were in that in the encrypted claim"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "next to it you promote them out and then you process it this in this way you can keep uh claims like the ip address uh if you have a full ip address in there uh you can keep those uh from being in the clear on the uri because uris get logged all over the place we have the and or and nor claims that are for boolean logic they do basically what they say on the 10. i was actually a little surprised to see that cwts didn't have the registered already so these are just very generic boolean claims since this significantly allows us to increase the complexity of the token we do have some implementation defined um uh minimums uh you have to support at least four levels of nesting and 50 list elements and tokens of a certain but not determined yet length um and we are aware that whatever we say the minimum is is effectively the maximum because that's how operations works next slide and here we get to what rajiv was alluding to um there are some claims that must be encrypted network claims more than 24 or 56 if a recipient gets one of these they must reject the token uh even if it's in even if it's from the correct ip address because the token is unacceptably formed and we do not want people using them that way subject claims that identify people we are still discussing this but right now we have uh we have it set so that you can have an unencrypted subject claim but if you put any sort of identifying information in it you're supposed to encrypt it obviously there's no technological way to enforce that so we may yet revisit that decision geographic detail claims"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:00",
    "text": "assuming we can come up with something for geographic detail um those will need to be encrypted because they are effectively a tracking location a tracking beacon on uh whoever is getting these issued things that may not be encrypted version claims we're not sure what that would even mean um you sort of need to know what the version is before you can figure out what those claims mean um critical claims don't work inside an encryption object because they define what needs to be inside the encrypted envelope so those are just functional next slide action claims these claims do not um restrict how the token may be used but they alter the behavior of the recipient in the event that the token is not valid or some to or or if it is valid so renewal toke renewal claims are very much like the signed token transport claims in the cdni token uh it's got a fair it's got a new and different format um some of it enabled by uh the power of cbor but the uh the the key here is that it can now have arbitrary parameters so that you can specify that your renewal token needs to be same site strict or whatever is appropriate for your use case and i think this will help people have more secure tokens and adapt better to tokens as new attributes arise in the cookie specification we are still working very much on the if control response but the intended desire is for it to be able to tell the intermediary that they need to redirect the client to somewhere else if their token is not valid instead of just sending them an error this can potentially enable certain"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:01",
    "text": "token flows that will allow expired tokens to uh regain their authorization by going through some different authorization process potentially without user input depending on what the use cases are next slide we are finishing up the document it needs a fair amount of restructuring at this point to make the generic sections generic the matching and the normalization and the composition sections all apply to a variety of claims so we're going to be doing a fair amount of editorial work there and we have a honkin security guidance section that needs to be written we have lots of security guidance sprinkled through the document but we also need to have concrete guidance as well questions if i have not exceeded our elapsed time luckily we don't have a lot on the agenda i guess my my standard question is going to be what do we see as the impact to cdni or what should we be thinking about is this going to obsolete our you know rfc that we just got published or you know uh what are your thoughts there i don't think the cta is allowed to obsolete uh ietf drafts um i don't think it competes with it directly um i do think they share a lot of space um i think that if the common access token gets the adoption that i hope it does that it will become useful for us to write a the write a draft that has the details of its delegation uh because that is not the role of the cta that is the role of this this group it would be fairly easy to write that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "and i think that some of the work that we are looking at taking on with respect to moving around metadata it's going to be valuable to be able to move around the metadata associated with one of these tokens just as well as the newly minted rfc uri signing token rajeev say sorry i guess i jumped the gun over there with the encryption side i had no idea you were going to address that but my question has nothing to do with your presentation or the document uh i just want to know what that cat in the middle is drinking i don't know he's a public domain cat you'll have to go look at it that's actually a fairly famous cat painting late 1800s if i recall thank you thank you you can go and download the slides and do a close-up and see if you can figure that out for us rajiv all right one more so all right so we've reached the end of our our scheduled agenda as i mentioned i wanted to have a wrap up and talk about the capacity advertisement draft there was a request for a call for adoption um i'm as i mentioned on the list i'm okay with that but there's there's one large question in the doc in my mind which we certainly can discuss as a working group um i'll first ask here um if there's anyone who has input on whether we sh whether this is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "good draft to adopt there was there were people on the list who said yes no one said no this is your chance to speak out and say no if you think that this is not a good idea chris gives the thumbs up good um ben um yeah so obviously i'm in favor of an adoption of being a co-author but um i just want to say i think andrew had another revision that he's currently working on that incorporated some uh copy editing changes just uh minor cosmetic things um so i don't know if you want to wait until he's finished with that new draft before uh incorporating that as the the next uh adopted draft i think we can do the call for adoption either way if um it probably doesn't matter but i would encourage everyone to go and look at the thread on the list that's talking about um footprint sub footprints and and how we want to address that i'm not sure that the way the draft currently has it written is how we want to do that but i'm open to hearing other people's opinions on that um so i encourage everyone to go read the draft and and comment on that thread unless anyone else has any other thoughts or comments on capacity advertisement we will move forward all right we have reached the end of the agenda we have 25 minutes remaining sanjay anything else that we want to cover i think in terms of the draft we have covered all the open items here so i don't have anything to add all right then we are going to give folks back their time we look forward to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "seeing you at ietf 115. um there are obviously a number of drafts that are in flight that we hope to close on before then so we'll keep those discussions going on the list otherwise thank you for attending we hope you had a good ietf and we will see you next time safe travels home everyone thank you yes safe travels all right thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:21",
    "text": "you"
  }
]
