[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "everyone all right let's go ahead and get going um welcome to the lamps working group that ietf 114. remind you first of the note well please make sure you understand your rights Privileges and responsibilities according to these um please don't contribute until you do of course it's my brother has a friend of me about the sun um so please uh follow the iitf code of conduct and you know basically treat each other with respect and uh that will lead us to the better technical solution we don't want to lock anyone out of the discussion and at this particular meeting in addition please wear your mask in the session and only the presenter should be maskless we have a long agenda but it turns out some of the things are not going to happen today so we might actually get through it we'll see um the first group of documents or the things that are with either the RFC editor or the isg and so we'll only be talking about those in terms of what's changed as they've gone through the process then in the pkx related documents just a day or so ago Tim declared that we've reached consensus on 3709 fifths so the only thing we're waiting for that to move to the higher category is the shepherd right up"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and the next one's the yes Mom documents we have not seen those documents updated since the last ietf so um there's probably not much that we'll be talking about today in fact I did not get slides and then there's the dot list of documents that uh guess Roman no I just wanted to so romantic if you could flip back a slide I just wanted to say kind of thank you for everyone with the agility we had on the lamp CMP kind of update when we went to the isg we got some feedback on the editorial style and the and the length of time in the in the old kind of new it was explained kind of how we got there kind of organically as a process there's still kind of a little there was still a little bit of a rub so kind of thank you for kind of the rapid reaction and the commitment to do kind of a fullbus this was really key to getting us over the Finish Line it's you know it'll give us something immediately for the community and then we can work kind of a lot long term on that so again got a big thank you as a team effort across kind of all sorts of things to get this so much the bulk of that thank you goes to Hendrick foreign and then there's a whole slew of documents that we're going to consider uh for adoption and of course most of them are post Quantum related there's a couple that are not my intent is to deal with uh in terms of processing them deal with the not pqc related ones first to get them off the plate and and then the pqc ones we have a little more Runway we're waiting on nist and so on but the uh the order somewhat reflects that and then some other things came in at the end so uh we'll deal with them as they do um any agenda bashes hi Russell I have something"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Clint Wilson uh I know there won't be time to talk about it today so I'll send this over to the list but I have uh a 5019 this that I plan on submitting uh just to kind of update the sha-1 requirement in that RFC okay um yeah so um I okay that's news to me but please uh please send it along and please post something on the list yep I'll send it over the list absolutely just for consideration for adoption thank you okay thank you any other bashing all right so um Sean I don't see your other authors in the room is there anything to say about document signing EKU uh and updated one of the authors oh there he is sorry so we got um an update done we had some minor uh clarifications that were requested so we did that and so okay so I saw the um document was posted yesterday I looked at the diff I hope others did too but um they were basically all to address uh comments from Roman if I remember right [Laughter] no we that yeah that actually happened a couple days ago we're an RFC Ed already oh but that was the last thing right yeah okay um the uh 8410 KU clarifications is there anything to uh share with the group I don't think there's been any changes in this one okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "CMP algorithms and updates and lightweight uh Hendricks that slides so there must be something to say yeah hello thanks um we're getting there can you hear me sorry yes we can hear you I just need to pull the slides up okay thanks yeah first of all thanks for Roman for his um mentioning the efforts on pushing the CMP updates through isg review um next slide please I had passed slide control to you did you not receive it okay okay CMP algorithms it passed iesg revenue and was approved is now in RFC editors Q [Music] um yeah so nothing nothing much to say thanks to Roman and wrath for supporting the document next slide CMP updates so there was some discussion in iesg so the end of March end of May iesg didn't approve it and there was mainly discussion on the style of the document next to a number of um minor editorial stuff and um yeah as Roman already said isg requested that we provide a 4210 bis document and yeah if we do that I would also propose to provide a 6712 business document scmp updates also update this RFC"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "um we discussed this already last ietf and I will come back to to this topic on my last slide so I'll yeah just since last ITF we updated as discussed at IDF 113 um the well-known pass and the definition of the pass segment PE for profile RCA names good likewise TMP profile there were some minor updates since last ITF um also some clarifications coming from implementations and alignment with CMP updates regarding the well-known pass segment and some editorial stuff but nothing much to to say about it um yeah we are waiting for um a d-review and looking forward to the valuable feedback will will probably receive um Roman can can you say anything about when you think you will have time to to work on this uh hi this is Roman yeah that's a fair fair question it's the next one in my review queue uh it's just been hard getting through the previous documents so I think if you give me a week or two after after the ITF I'm gonna spin it back up yeah location anyhow good got it so European so October one all right perfect yeah actually we we in Bavaria are quite late without summer vacation that's right that's funny"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "good um coming to uh 4210 bits and 67 12 bits as already mentioned this was on is on request of iesg um they regarded the style of old text new text as CMP updates was written as yeah not not well for implementers to read I fully understand this so in the beginning that was a decision we took um for this document as we didn't plan to do a general update of CMP but only some changes and to be honest there are only two real changes one is on exchanging um enveloped encrypted value with envelope data and the second is to add an explicit hash elk oid in the set conf message um all the other stuff is either fixing errata or adding some new oids were already flexibility was foreseen like for General messages for example or defining um an ex extended key usage value so yeah now we we have the situation that we we have to provide these documents I welcome everyone especially those who were involved in writing the original RFC with supporting this activity from the group of authors or CMP updates we can provide a zero zero version that contains mainly the original RFC text providing a zero one version providing the changes provided by defined in CMP updates and most likely a zero two"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "version doing some fixes reported by idnets and maybe switching here and there to more current rfcs in in references or aligning some some text where needed but that is it what we would plan to to provide but from the feedbacks from iesg Members I understood that there will be some um complete review of the documents um the best documents and therefore I would expect that there will be some further discussion going on and I feel like we need help of the original authors to get that input on those design decisions back 2005 in the discussions because we do not want to define a new certificate management protocol but let's say only do some adaptations to CMP where needed for the lightweight profile at least that was the original aim therefore everyone especially those authors um from the original rfcs are welcome to join in I send out an email to those last week but didn't get any feedback yet so any feedback is welcome also if they step back from co-authoring that's also good but then I at least know and yeah do not miss some some feedback yeah so that's it um there are people in the queue so Mike Ellsworth I'm a co-author on this I just wanna I really want to highlight what Hendrick just said I mean opening up this up to Abyss I think is going to open up questions like why not TLS why not hpke and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "within the author group we have some historical knowledge here but probably not enough to field all of that so help from the working group to deal with whatever comes out of review please so all right um completely agree that this is a document the protocol effort not a redesigned the protocol effort uh further this document being from 2005 is what we call pre-5378 the IPR regime has changed and 5378 is the is the Watershed event where that IPR change so we do need permission from all the authors to get their rights so the original authors yes and so even if they don't want to contribute to this effort they need to give us the rights to continue and so I hope that does not become the roadblock Roman uh so hi Roman Union responsible ID so I want to want to pick up on two things that might help us uh help us with a Glide slope here and one of them is directly related to how big of a box we're going to open here so procedurally this is actually going to be an interesting situation I haven't encountered before because what often happens outside the SEC area when you open up you open up the protocol security is always very concerned will you make me update and upgrade all the security kind of properties and there's a bit of a negotiation that sometimes happens as to why this document is produced what they what the intent is really to miss and whether we we're going to reopen the can of worms on the security considerations so one of the things that would kind of kind of help me as we talk about it in the working group is let's kind of iron out I mean we know why we're making this update this is a push from the isg let's talk about the places where that might be hot spots that there might be discussions update but we don't want to and I can have a conversation with the isg about how to how to handle that I mean this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "this sometimes kind of occurs typically not in SEC documents uh so so the so asked here is am I talking about security considerations it could in other in uh non-sec protocols it typically is the security considerations and kind of the assumptions made here we're probably talking about fundamental parts of the protocol uh so we we may need a reason about that uh and then kind of the other one uh the other kind of thing to do which I think is just much much easier I mean Henrik put in kind of some good work in documenting the implementations which also helped with the Glide slope for approval here so I you know I would kind of urge you know to document that really well as we bring this document forward to really show that we're putting in ietf documents the state of play uh the state of play and that also kind of helps with how wide of a box we have when we when we reopen it so Roman are you suggesting in advance in um the uh proposed to full you mean putting that as table Stakes what's changed what's not in advance well no I mean one of the things we often do is document the what implementations exist and so on we know we have more than two interoperable implementations so we could just uh try to put the best documents to full standard uh yeah we we could I guess I don't have an answer of that like right now okay yeah we should kind of figure out I mean if that's what we want to do I mean I mean I see no reason I was thinking something less ambitious uh really just document it really well in the shepherd report as kind of justification for the design choices but if we want to go a little further I mean if and we and we clearly have the implementations we certainly could we do okay we'll have that discussion we'll we'll have that discussion at some other point I guess but uh pointed out we have another oh my goodness sorry yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "okay can we uh can we get a couple people to open up the the notes link and help us out please thank you two people would be awesome oh thank you thank you so much and appreciate it so that was a question on the IPR um um thing go ahead um I I guess um Ross please correct me we fixed this with contacting the original authors and they all provided the right to switch to the current Ah that's awesome good news yeah so this should be documented on the list in the mail archive if needed I could figure out which emails that was now that's just awesome news I I forgot that we did that for for the updates contacted them but thank you okay and I don't see anyone else in the queue any other all right let's move to the next presentation thank you Henry thanks uh so the next one is uh 3709 yes um nothing's changed since uh this document that has uh just last week had consensus called um so the next one on the agenda is header protection uh dkg or Alexa here are both here anything to scare good uh hi this is Daniel Gilmore um no there's it's been a little bit stalled which is on me um I we have I think"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:02",
    "text": "reach agreement about the way to handle that there was one piece of subtlety that came up at the last meeting that we discussed around for header protection uh around how the recipient should know what happened when the header confidentiality policy was applied and I uh I think we reached an agreement on what should happen there and I have failed to write it down and produce the samples so I'm still working on that okay so sorry for the delay so was that uh something that we're likely to resolve by the next Ito yes awesome because I I really was hoping to clear this before we dig into the pqc stuff yep right it is it is something that I'm aiming to get done before then okay don't sit down yet okay same question for end-to-end mail guidance yeah so the engine mail guidance I have not gotten a lot of feedback from which is a little bit uh distressing to me because I know that there are people in this room uh and people who are remote and people who are on the mailing list who have experience to share and we have not gotten a lot of additional uh suggestions the document has fixmes if you don't want to say hey I've got an idea I want to add but you want to just uh pitch in and say I think I know how to solve this particular problem I would welcome that um I am trying to record the things that I have uh uncovered in terms of like the kinds of paper cuts that people actually have uh and I would love to have more uh contributors on that I'm gonna I know that it is expired right now um and I will refresh it and I will fill in some of the fixmes but I really hope that some of the other expertise in the room will contribute their hard-earned lessons uh for everybody else so uh again I'm I'm I'm behind on this but I really would appreciate more people stepping up with with uh suggestions okay so um this is Russ I promise to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "read it and joining the discussion are there any other s mime implementers willing to make the same commitment good thank you for the notes that was Alexi go ahead Rich yeah do you know Alec Muffet Rich point it down where your mouth is [Laughter] um you might want to reach out to him because and Alec is big on end-to-end security stuff I don't know how much experience he has with s mime in particular but okay okay I also said that so I could walk to the front and sit down without me how clever [Laughter] um Alex I did read the earlier version and I think um I had some minor comments I think the big part is about terminology used just because it's not fully aligned with email terminology uh but I think once it's fixed it's going to be so but yeah I'm I'll commit to doing a review again and I'll send you all the comments okay uh Michael Richardson you're next okay am I close enough to the microphone good um all right I'll come back to the first slide that I you know just copied and pasted from last time uh it's a terrible title I would love to better title you know something more cool um next pardon me more cool more cool yeah with like bigger smaller more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "smaller words I don't know um uh yeah um so um The Story So Far um so uh RFC uh 70 30 which is EST enrollment over secure transport was a little bit unclear about CSR attributes which is a thing that actually it created um we over in anima used it uh the way that we thought that it worked and uh I don't quite remember how we came across the fact that this was probably wrong maybe because of the the the CMP work that Hendrick is doing um for me I think it was Sean it was Sean yeah someone noticed that we did it wrong um and anyway we had a virtual intro meeting at the end of August 2021 um there's some links if you want to go see that talk a lot more about what what went wrong and we concluded to that we needed to fix it um and there was a bunch of different ways of fixing it one of which was that the our interpretation was correct and the document was wrong and another one was that the document was right and our interpretation was was broken and um um that uh you know we went through a couple cycles and we actually concluded the document was vague and wrong and that our interpretation was also wrong so uh so the the last time in Vienna um Sean said uh you know what we just need this extra layer of extension request that that the document was kind of right just didn't really clearly say that so next slide please so this is what we were doing okay we were saying hey we want this subject alt name so we'll put that in and uh please do something okay and we have writing code that that does this and it's wrong um next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "so this is what it looks like now this is what we would do okay so we would start off with this extension request and within that we put an extension exactly what we want it's a three item thing with a critical bit in there the Boolean um subject an oid and a value at the end or a set of values or a sequence of values there um and that's really it so all the other uses where you say I want you to use algorithm one two three here's the oid um those all remain the same so I think Dan had the question but we didn't want to break what was on The Wire already for other other people this is what it looks like right now uh I would invite you to you know think about that um and uh next slide please that's really it yeah so questions we think we're ready to for the working group to adopt it we can then fill in some additional examples so that's one request out there if you have any running code that does anything at all with 70 30 then consider you know Conjuring up an example for us and run it through dump as and one so that we can really say you know to people when I wrote my code I I uh I went through the three examples that were in 7030 and I I didn't really understand the ASN one to be honest but I I knew when I had parsed it right so that was the that was the key part it's a complicated bit of code and I think it's a non-trivial they use the the coolest mechanisms possible so Sean hi uh Sean Turner so someone's who caused all this problem can we adopt this this seems like a perfect uh perfectly good draft for the Lambs working group I don't know that the L and lamps anymore is true but this seems like a perfectly good reason uh the really The Joy de V for this working group was to do this kind of thing so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "I would support adoption now okay does anyone in the room think we should not adopt this document so anyone remotely think we should not adopt the stock I have a question sure yes so long time what's your name my name is Roy Williams I'm Microsoft a long time ago we had an issue with uh Japanese subsidiaries putting a stock ship on us for using etf8 for their networks because of the large explosion of content that goes on the wire okay do we have any need to use a utf-8 in the in the in this case here uh so we want to go back one slide I think that's where he's reacting which is probably just left button there you go um so um this is the piece at the bottom here can I answer that more succinctly um okay this is using a piece of RC 5280 which uses directory spring which is a choice of which utf-8 is one of yep that's what I was going to say and and in in RFC 8994 we say you shall do it this way but in your network you will do it the way you want okay okay so just my example is in utf-8 and that's because that's what a different RFC says we're doing it for okay I'm gonna go ahead and make sure we weren't going to run into a buzz saw of issues yeah yeah you could you could contribute an example thank you Rich yes exactly please contribute an example that's not in utf-8 so that no one gets confused next time that would be wonderful thank you yes anyone else anyone else okay all right um we'll do a call for adopt foreign"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:09",
    "text": "responsibility I will also do the pesky task of looking at the in scope of the charter because as we know with lamps we have a rigid list of what's in what's out I I believe clarifications is more in that list okay [Laughter] but uh Sean all right remote people uh yes the remote people would not hear me but in here they would uh so hey this is a new draft that came up it's uh um basically came as John Madison here I saw him at the there he is at the back so he sent an email and said hey you know the three gpp guys have this way to put Network function types in certificates kind of think they're not really doing it right what about what we do so we basically pumped out a really simple draft to specify a way to do that and that's really the the whole thing one more slide and all on that this is my only slide I want to make sure that we talk about the pqc stuff more um so the motivation really again was this email really is what really happened but the ideas for these Network function types for 5G systems right so they've got the service based architecture and these um you know things on the network are talking and they've got a certain set of names and you know how do we stick these things in the in the certificate and they're all ASCII strings which is really nice because we don't have to worry about these ETF explosions and they can keep them apart which is really nice so a side note I will tell you that getting through the isg saying everything is an asci string is a fight it's going to be hard and it's just standards like you put it on your back"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "and you carry it we put justification for why we're using ASCII strings to be able to get us out of this problem so when our responsible ad is carrying and the serum can be like they only actually use ASCII strings and so that's nice of them because it makes it a little easier because it's smaller um and so there's an actual um 3gp spec that actually lists what those things are they are ASCII the only really that's really weird is they have an underscore so we'll that's why it's I5 string and not something else but um the basic idea about hey where could you put a name well you can put a name in an existing naming attribute so you have you know you have like a subject name and a certificate Yeah country oh you know common name you can bang it in there well that doesn't really seem like it kind of made me but didn't make much sense um you can find another name and general name no one's going to support that so good luck with that right so the other idea is to find a new extension maybe it's a little easier and that's kind of what we settled on and we thought yeah okay and the extension is that it's very simple it is like a sequence of NF types and we put it you know we went to go with the all the asml and options so that we could make sure that we could kind of like put a size and it's not kind of unbounded and they're restricted to 32 characters and lengths and that's really it and that's kind of it for the draft and we think that uh it'd be all right to specify here because usually in the way the references the references go right 3gpp oftentimes specifies and points to the ITF um rfcs and so we figured we'd do it here do them a solid and be done with it and it's a very simple draft and that's really it so pretty much the ask is hey did anybody read it and if you did what do you think about adopting this so the um only thing I want to add to what Sean said is um the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "NF types that are defined in the 3gpp spec are all eight characters or less we we forexed it to make sure that we weren't blocking uh you know people but yet not making it unbounded uh we thought Forex probably was adequate to deal with that and of course since I'm a co-author Tim will make all uh consensus calls on this John uh yeah some background so this is this is already specified in a bad way in PDP which causes problems it has I've been identified by Erickson as a problem I think it has been discussed in interrupt tests and so on but I'm not 100 sure exactly how I don't think there's any any official formal discussions in 3D people a new contribution I don't know if there has been offline discussions there I guess all I want to say is to our 80s if there ever is actually a fight we they can if they wanted three gpp is like that's a great idea we're gonna do it over here great do that like we're not no one's fighting to like let's keep it here you know that yeah so we figured this was just an easy it's like a literally a slam dunk kind of of uh internet draft to get to RFC not gonna take typical three years let's you know just get it done so I think the next step is probably to get 3dp input and discussion yeah thank you uh yeah I read the draft more importantly I read the whole email thread which I think was longer than the draft it is it is in fact yes and yeah this seems like an obvious slam dunk so I fully supported the option and I'll read the next version of the draft which is even I'll only read the diffs it'll be shorted in a minute I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "don't know this is you know maybe not that's good right so my only concern when I wrote this actually was what was the string type going to be look do we have to restrict it like really and it's it's funny because like if they're like oh well they're going to keep using ASCII strings great well it makes it a little easier because it keeps the cert smaller which as we know is a thing right yeah all right um so it sounds like a lot of people are in favor of adopting this as anybody against adapting this document in the working group either in the room or remotely looks like that's a no so we'll take it to the list thank you uh Carl Wallace uh we're gonna do your kiosk cessation next uh can you hear me yes let me just find your slides okay so the next slide I pass control to you okay good enough um so here's a link to the draft for those who haven't read it and a link to the uh editor's copy I don't think there have been any changes since the zero zero uh what we want is to have this accepted as a working group draft and proceed on standards track um why is it necessary keys can be generated in software or hardware for a good while now um a lot of Hardware modules have been capable of providing verifiable key attestations it's been like a way to pass that to the ca so it can either tailor certificate"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "contents or possibly reject requests that lack the characteristics that it it desires so why did we use the web authen at a station statement format there are a bunch of different formats for key Atta stations so this needs to be agile work that I've done that's been in use since 2018 used proprietary oids for each format but when we set out to write this there was already a a Draft Brewing in the Acme group that was using the web often wormat so just to make life easier we um we installed a bunch of text um and this question here actually isn't a question anymore so I wondered from the beginning whether or not using the web often registry was was okay so I talked to Roman yesterday and he suggested I talked to one of the registry experts I passed Mike Jones in the hall and asked him and he said we'll need a new registry so we can't reuse the web often registry for attestation statement formats that aren't organic to web often which isn't a particularly big deal so we'll change the the draft will change at least for that um why these various cert request protocols because we have a load of them and they all more or less behave the same with respect to this this value can be passed as an extension or an attribute and because Acme's already covered a Brandon weeks draft which will be presented tomorrow at the Acme session so do we not cover we don't cover format specific details so that'll be left to whatever draft is referenced in the registry so right now if you look at the web Ops in the registry all of the statement formats are defined in the web often spec"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "but in the future that might not be the case um so we punt those to the the spec formats I guess I guess that's it there's any questions Thomas go ahead can you hear me hello oh hi hi Carl incidentally we picked the same web often format to to wrap different kinds of attestation evidence in our tested TLS extension and uh had we had the same exact question in regard to how and where one defines your performance is is that w3c Ayana someone else um so um if I understand correctly what you said you are going to create the Ayana registry in your draft is is that the case or I misunderstood uh that's the plan and Sean you can chime in with more detail on that if you like okay another question sorry quick very quickly is there any need to to coordinate with w3c on that or is it something that we just do unilateral link so I mean we're just using the the format as it's defined in defining a place to register register this stuff for this purpose I I don't see why that would need coordination but I have not asked that question of anyone okay um anyone else yeah so to add a little more concrete there we're just you know we have Ayanna so we'll use them to run the registry so we'll just specify what the name of the new registry is and go from there it'll be pretty straightforward I'm sorry to jump in there staphon yeah I'm trying to unmute but I think I succeeded um so it's the the purpose of this to uh to Signal uh the um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "the the aspects of the private key that is associated with these public key of the certificate right that's right so um I'm not saying that you shouldn't do this this way I just want to report that there isn't a Noble app with uh Etsy has since many many years ago a mechanism in the qualified certificate statements extension reporting on the aspects of the private key associated with the certificates it's used mainly to say that this is a qualified uh signature creation device but you can you can register any kind of identifier for whatever type of key protection you have there so um just to make you aware that there is such a function that is widely deployed already well I mean the problem is that the Web authen format is also widely deployed and uh yeah you know we're not creating this condition where I'm just choosing to to piggyback off of this that exists yeah yeah I just just wanted to uh point you to to the fact that this also exist I suspect Brandon will say more about this tomorrow in Acme so if you're around tomorrow Give a listen to that Bonnie yeah much wise wouldn't be on identity um yeah I think maybe one point the mic down I was trying that it's a little tight I don't want to break it all right um anyway Monty Wiseman um know a little bit about the TPM and I've seen lots of for example TPM implications which this would be among the type of items you would you would apply to this I you know looking through it I think in maybe the previous uh speaker's suggestion needs to be looked at just a simple binary of Hardware versus software I think it's going to be very difficult for people to ascertain or make a decision on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "there's lots of implementations uh isn't as hard to remain a separate IP block inside the chip a separate ship itself um anyway so there's I think I think there's going to be lots of variability people are going to want to set the hardware bit what sort of criteria do we have for Hardware bit we've got like things with normal world and secure world for example uh things over in Secure world is that Hardware it's the same piece of silicon that's actually executing the instructions as the normal world so I think this is going to be a a challenge to Simply make it a binary decision um secondarily go ahead go ahead oh no I agree with what you're saying and even within just you know the Android format you see a lot of variability there there's strong box there's T I think there's even attestations that indicate software um you know that as as with what I said to Stefan that exists we're not creating that condition we're just providing a means to convey this information to the ca to appraise however it wants to appraise and and I think that's kind of what you're getting at is is the appraisal process some folks are going to do it different than others and that seems okay to me well I I think you're gonna have a child you the appraiser is going to need more information than just a bit to make this determination is is what is what I'm saying and just having a simple bit I I'm afraid is going to be overused and then become well there's not there's not a bit there's there's a statement format and that that format definition is referenced in the registry so there's lots of words written about all of these formats right yeah I understand that in in the attestation statement you can provide more clarity but then what's the point of just having this bit I guess I'm not sure what bit you're you're referring to yeah actually there's a there's a binary value right before the attestation statement"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:02",
    "text": "let me pull that out that's the one I'm I'm questioning and and maybe that's something that that we we should look at now now that I get what you're saying okay can we just take that on the mailing list yeah I'll I'll post um okay yeah I've gotta have you thought about adding something like this key has certain attributes such as policies associated with using the keys would that be out of scope for this particular extension maybe it's another I think that's part of the attestation statement format and to reference Android catastrations again there's all kinds of stuff like that that appears in an Android catastation the usage the algorithms that kind of stuff that's all there all right I'll dig deeper into that thank you okay hello Sean again um it's funny actually the uh I thought we thought about many of these things and was like okay well what's gonna work um the funny thing is can you go back to slides where it's like why and the list of all the various enrollment protocols yeah back one where it's just like why because there's so many of them because we could never actually picked one um my biggest worry was that we were going to actually refer to scep in uh normative format I'd have to downref it which would put it on the standards track so I just want to throw that out there that you know for the ads that are later going to be passing this to the thing everything else up there seems to be great but SCP is the really weird one on the on the list of things to do so just kind of remember that and it's a because again we're just defining this format thing that you can put in any one of these enrollment protocols and there's five or six up there and there'll be more later so just make sure it's an informational reference yeah well whatever we'll figure that out the issue with scap is it's it's the payload format that's in apples over-the-air profile configuration delivery protocol so that's a whole lot"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "of devices that are doing scap yep all right um so um I think it's worth noting that even though we're both attestation is widely available and you know in in some sense extremely widely deployed it there is not a huge amount of deployment experience for relying parties actually processing uh we're both attestation and doing anything with it um and in that respect um the stuff that Stefan talked about the qualified certificate extension is in a sense a little bit more mature in the sense that the in the it essentially references a a big Speck of Behavioral Behavior or um requirements that's what qualified certificate to it's a sort of a federation specification and whereas the Web auth format is you know a set of values right a set of bits or Flags or whatnot and in experience from other large scale deployments of these kinds of sort of Behavioral requirements over time it tends to be very very hard for a lying parties to process like large catalogs or values um I would refer you to nest's work on this in 863 where they've gone back and forth between requiring you know simple levels of assurance uh the classical one through four level of assurance too things that have a little bit more parameter space in them in these vectors of trust stuff that they have been using for the last two years so it even though it may be very attractive to reference the where both um format here as in a registry I would take a little bit more more look at what's been used in the digital identity industry for for well I want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "say decades here but almost well it's more more than a decade in this space and think about how to how to do this um these are like non-trivial things although I agree that if you want to do a catalog of a bit um where both is probably as good a starting point is oh well a couple points on this one the Kiara station format that I have in mind aren't that old right they're not decades old they're you know half a dozen years older so I know my point well I mean I don't get to tell someone what what attestation format to use I I have to consume it as a relying party right so and that's all this is doing is saying these different products they all have different attestation formats I'd like a way for my CA to get a hold of them so this is really just a bucket to carry something from point A to point B I'm personally not wed to web authen I don't care if we were to go with just oids that's what I did before in a proprietary implementation but if Acme is going to do web often it just makes sense to me that we make it easier and use the same format for these other protocols I I agree I'm just saying maybe not limit yourselves to that particular format because there will be other reasons to process attestation that will have very very different formats or perhaps if you're around Give a listen tomorrow and I I would like and it's not imperative that I would like if if these two specs were at the end of the day harmonized so and I think that that one's going to be web often so thank you yeah I mean absolutely I think one of them will certainly be aware of them right I think don't think it will be the only one I think that's I think Stefan's point oh you're saying why Define just an oid for web often and and instead Define"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "another bucket type to carry this stuff or maybe something that can Encompass where both end and other things in some situations it is oids right in other situations it's going to be something like an Loa or a vector of trust thing right another situation is just going to be like hey I'm it's a bit I'm a qualified certificate I I my key has been generated using a a QC capable device right so it's a range of things and I agree with you relying parties never never going to dictate this but yeah it's going to be more complex than just the weapon even though if you two have something that's concrete that exists in mind if you could send a pointer to it so that I don't grope around and not find the right thing that would be helpful I'll give you I mean Steph I'll I'll find you all fine right but Stefan gave you one right and there are multiple of these sort of ways to specify some sort of property of the the thing generating the private key or the authentication context he gave me some terms with which I could search but not a specific reference of what what does this already that's what I'm asking for yeah well the qualified certificates is one thing and you can search for that and the vectors of trust is another that's another way of specifying sort of assurance for uh authentication context and the NIS 800-63 is another one right the these are these look very very different right um we're both in attestation was I think an attempt to build something quite simple but you can go back to even to Kerberos days and you will find people have been trying to specify sort of the quality of of the authentication context is something or something it was a Kerberos um PK in it um was it done using a hardware context or not right that it's been tried right and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "specifying these kind that kind of policy is um everybody has their own idea the web of them people have their specific idea on how to do this um there's nothing in this draft that would prevent another draft from referencing such things I mean all of this stuff already exists right and and picking winners and losers I don't know we can take that on on the list that's fine I think I get what you're after uh yeah I'm arguing against picking trying to pick winners Michael so um Michael Richardson here so I read the draft um and I know I think I asked the list why it was very what was the rat's connection at one point um um having listened to the presentation now I have a much better idea that it's a cross type of thing and I guess I want to know is um as lamps want to fight for this rats for this draft or does neither want it or um because it kind of will just it kind of seems to to go a little bit you know lamps as for the syntax and racks as for the semantics I don't know so right now there are two drafts that that I've talked about this week the one in rats was for defining a structure for Distributing trust anchors which could be used I know this context right oh yes and then here there's no rats in this draft you know this isn't using eats no I know that that wasn't the question but you're still talking about attestations through the type of key that was was created right and so so the the fact that we're creating it doing putting something a certificate is what Yanks it into this working group the fact that we're we're talking about some um uh quality about the private key okay and who created it and how and in what circumstances is what Yanks it back in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the other direction except the uh Carl's already pointing to attestation formats that are already defined already defined okay so I just I just wanted to ask that higher level question here because we you know we've got it if you need to define a new one I agree with you it probably goes there okay actually if you were to Define one for eats I would think that you would Define a web authen uh statement format that would wrap the eat and and I mean really at the end of the day all we're using web authen for is format agility that's it and the reason that's being used is because there are some large vendors that emit this already Stefan go ahead does it work now no yeah so I just want to get you aware that I provided a link in the jabber chat to uh to the Etsy work okay thanks okay thank you Carl ready I think it's Sean gonna talk about so should we do a whole who read it can we adopt it like that was kind of the point right so I don't know if we want to oh thank you is there anyone uh stay there you're not or come up here um you're next does anyone object to uh this group adopting this document or does it need further work before we have asked that question no one's thinking it shouldn't be I don't see anyone saying anything online"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:08",
    "text": "okay so we'll we'll uh take it to the mail list and yeah for all those new people that haven't come to the IHF a lot that's what you want is you want to ask at the end like what are we doing with it because otherwise even leaving this kind of I don't know what the hell's going on State and that's not cool sometimes you get shot down in flames sometimes you don't so tacos so hey this is another one slide presentation this is the uh draft that we talked about last time which is an individual submission still it's about PQ um Kim certs it was going to specify it's going to be the one that ruled them all right it was gonna how are you gonna put these uh chems the public keys and certificates and what are we going to do we're going to have this long list of choices and then this picked one so next yes no there's a terminology draft that this this woman back here is going to write [Laughter] yeah exactly because I'm not a cryptographer so I'm just throwing it out there right um again the strap was going to like specify them all and they just picked one so hey that's nice this draft is going to be really short here's we're gonna we're gonna link it down and make it just be one it's going to specify what the public key is we are not specifying the oid we're going to take it from nist whatever that is we're going to say no parameters you're gonna have an oid and then they've got three options for like low medium high or whatever they're going to call it or you know when uh 128 to 24 and 56 or whatever it is we're going to take those names we're going to go with it and that's it um but it's the encoding of the algorithm identifier where it's like an oid and parameters we are not talking about parameters no parameters I don't know how many ways it's going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "be there's I think it's I so I talk with password and press parameters equals 108. when I talk about panels I hope there was only going to be like uh like use and uh like paranoid and then we can just ignore the alien level um you know security but I don't know what's gonna happen and again whatever they specify we're gonna do it the problem is that people will just like go for the super high level and no you don't really need that stuff at this point so we'll do whatever they whatever they specify there'll be a number of uh we won't specify any parameters now a lot of us is like super back history rates like 1997 when people screwed up their implementations and required parameters we're trying to just drop that baggage so it's like just don't encode the damn things so it's Greenfield we're hoping we can get away with that and then of course you got to specify what the key scissors are well it's a chem pretty straightforward what the choices are going to be right so there shouldn't be any real kind of argument about this um and then we have some security considerations the one part we will have a discussion I guess is the private key part which I think somebody's talking about later well I'm the first PQ one everybody gets in line [Laughter] fresh meat all right go ahead yeah so you don't this seems very connected to the next presentation about signatures but a little bit different but that presentation said nist will do this for us though you say at least we'll do this and then we will take whatever needs why these specify the other presentation also have a lot of discussion what does the oid mean do we have one and then encode everything in the public key value like with LNF LMS and RSA or do we have several where these four different security levels how I think they'll be annoyed per security level and that that's going to be the only parameters pick the right away yeah and that's it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "otherwise we're going to be in like a world of hurt who is going to decide that is are we going to take what this decides or will doesnis want our input on on this so I think I think I think both but at the end of the day I think that they've decided the way they came out the signature stuff they kind of like picked uh you know three levels essentially right whether it's two or four or three whatever levels are we're just gonna if it's three we're just gonna go with those and go with the flow we're not trying to we're not trying to usurp nists you know like let's go write a special publication or fips or whatever that's clearly not the intention if this draft is long it's because the key sizes are huge and the examples that I would like make it longer and that's it as the broken record and what's in the charter the charter says we take what's from this and not reinvest yeah so yeah this is definitely a again this like this and then the next the signature stuff like we're not trying to do more than we really should because it's not really I mean my personal opinion it's not our place um Sphinx aside we're talking about yeah like three to five parameters oh it's not you know dozens um the comment that I got up to make is I will pick at you about key usage not being straightforward just for the record like chems are a different interface so they're not a key Trend and they're not a key agree there's something new we don't want to make a new EKU or KU because gross probably we I mean key trends are key agree both are wrong I think as long as we all pick one we all pick one consistently it's okay but just don't gloss over that there is yeah I did want to make the point that you and I and the other authors of your draft have talked and we want to be in complete agreement so that there's not going to be a fight over like what's the bit and I think we decided on key trans and not key agreement and we were kind of like well we got to pick one so yeah whatever it was we agreed to that's in the draft I think is what we're going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "to do because we don't want to set up this fight where you know the quote-unquote composite one whatever that means because we're going to get that terminology defined later we're just gonna go with the flow but it's just a little trivia um if you start if if you have to name things anywhere like in the Ayana registry or or having a shorthand uh please don't name anything with a dash in there or a space because there are still some dinosaurs that code in the sea and we would really like to map the names one on one and so at least use underscores ah interesting okay well that'll be nice input to miss but yeah cool we won't we won't we won't bother with that description uh underscores not printable string yeah I'll just skip it and just put the number the size of the security strengths right after it yeah yeah let the seat programmers translate dashed underscore but it worked in openssl so it works everywhere um [Music] yeah um do you actually really needs multiple oids or can you just determine what the key is from the link that's encoded in the search no I think people I think people like as you can tell by the grones I think people like the explicit like here's what the strength value of the strength is so that's the only way that's why yeah but we don't know if there will be multiple parameter sets we hope they're not but we don't know that there never will be okay so I can't remember if I have another draft another slide or not I don't think I do I I hope not um we didn't do the question okay cool that was my that would be the next slide again remember people never been here before ask for adoption so that would be it so so anyone think we should not adopt this document or should have a call to adopt the stock"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:00",
    "text": "not seeing anyone opposed is there anyone in chat no okay so uh Mike Ellsworth so I'll make an Omnibus comment for I think all the PQ stuff which is could we like adopt it start getting the administrative work the text editing the sort of General design out of the way and then like as a group just sort of pause them and wait for nist and that way we can synchronize across working group that's exactly what we're doing yeah exactly correct right we're not trying to get out in front of our skis to like fail miserably right here it's like we specify some stuff I'm gonna put tbds in the oil in the in the play I'm not trying to squat on anything like we're just if people want to experiment they can they can do what they want we just won't put the numbers in there so that we're not because the reason why we want to do that is because later we don't want somebody to be like no we're not going to change your implementation because that's happened in the past and we don't want to play that game anymore yep and also to be clear I mean you know this is nist time library right here we've got a whole bunch of drafts we want to make sure that we get them all done as close to the left side of that timeline as possible otherwise we'll fall off the right side so you know would rather hurry up and wait than uh miss the deadline is Jake here yeah there he is thank you I'm just waiting for the control of the slides there we go all right past applied control to you thank you very much can you guys hear me okay yep wonderful uh yeah so I guess for those who don't know me uh Jake Massimo I am at AWS um I did a PhD in cryptography under uh Kenny Patterson WTH uh so yeah today I'm going to talk about uh similar drafts as the one previous um algorithms identifiers for x509 this is the signature version of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:00",
    "text": "algorithms rather than the cameras here and just get through the slide you should see some buttons at the bottom yeah got it so a little bit of motivation um so what what is this about so yeah as I said before the inclusion of the algorithms selected by nist's pqc project into x509 right now the draft is focusing on dilithium as Nestor stated it as the primary algorithm to be implemented and of course it has you know a reasonable wild balance performance uh throughout uh we're aiming here at the description of uh the pure um certificate so we're not focusing on the uh hybrid or non-composite um I guess actually composite certificates um but of course this draft may come in use for the hybrid work as well um so you can kind of think of this as an RFC 3279 for lists signature algorithms and the ID provides the conventions and the Syntax for putting the active identifiers parameters into the certificates uh why now uh just a little bit more motivation uh so we are seeing some industry interest uh scoping out um recipients with PQ resistance these are kind of applicable in the the long term uh rule of trusts so things are embedded uh within devices or things that are difficult to reissue um we're starting to get some some like custom questions and some like uh examples from automotive industry having machinery and iot devices that may sit on a shelf for a long time before they're ever switched on and then a look to update uh of course this has announced the uh the algorithms for adoption uh don't listen Falcon um this will take some time but uh yes nice nice to people this process uh now that we have some um algorithms selected and uh as I've heard mentioned previously it kind of aligns with our the line to Charter to adopt"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "um a draft for pqc signatures in pkix certificates um as was I think literally just mentioned um with with the TLs 1.3 draft Our intention is for this to be ratified after 2024 um what's you know this is fully finished specifying and describing the algorithm isn't standardizing the algorithms slide yeah so our goals and our non-goals we kind of already focused or gone over this before uh so we will um our guys are to define the data structures for the use of dilithium signatures in next 509 and we want a clean and concise specification so yeah no parameters we will just have them hard coded in the oids and our non-goals are yeah we won't be we won't be uh trying to overthrow nist and say which algorithms to use we'll be going with nests selection and with nists selection of oids so just to finish up a couple of uh key discussion points obviously for signatures there are multiple algorithms that have been selected um so we kind of have this uh you know the the one the one ID uh to rule them all or do we separate the uh each draft or algorithm per draft um of course multiple algorithms in a single draft can kind of bloat some security considerations you know you could imagine talking about the detailed intricacies of lattices and then also you know hash functions and it could be confusing as to you know which security consideration is talking about which um algorithm for people that are you know less familiar with them um so right now we're kind of thinking one one algorithm per per draft and uh yeah another question is you know which security levels should we include all of them um a selection of them again we'll be looking to Nest um to see what they kind of put out there first and then being sensible about our choices"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:01",
    "text": "um we'd also love to hear your feedback I have introduced the draft on the mailing list and there's been some discussion on there already um about uh bit strings versus octet strings and things like this uh but yeah we'd love to hear from your feedback and I guess I have to make the uh the the call to add this as a working group item so thank you very much for listening foreign yeah hi it's John Gray from entrust yeah I think I'm the one that probably made those comments on the bit strings and then on the draft but yeah I very much support this I think I was saying on the mailing list we have already done Integrations with customers and I've already had to change my oids three times obviously we know that they're going to change but it would be great to have you know a final set that we can use especially now that nist has announced so the sooner we can get those that just less work for us and better Integrations with the different partners that are actually looking to do this and I mean we've been doing this for the past couple years already so there's definitely um yeah a lot of people interested in that so thank you yeah thank you for your feedback as well John Mattson obviously this is needed work we need to integrate everything in this standard I think for lamps probably we should do everything that needs decides to stand that dice I think it's hard to know what will be be used in the future coming back to this oid it was only two years ago that lamps standardizes LMS 741yd for all security levels are we already agreeing that that was a bad choice or is there any differences between the algorithm that motivates now everybody seems to say that we should have one already per security level I don't have any problems so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "um let me answer that the difference was the way the algorithm of spec was written the algorithm spec used the RPC encoding of the parameters into the key itself so you only needed one because the key embedded all the parameters and so if missed were to take that approach then we would only need one but it seems based on the way the algorithm specs that they asked for in the competition are not that way so that would be a big change to the way they're specifying it and that's why okay um or or steel transmute apologies for not queuing technical difficulties um I appreciate all the comments you know so I appreciate all the comments and um support this uh proposal working on the Cozy and Hosey representations to mirror what you're all working on here and I'm looking forward to collaborating keeping everything in sync thank you okay so this gets us to the is this the right approach um it seems that we have [Music] some choices on this slide that I think need a little fleshed out in in do we want one uh PQ signature draft that has all three of the finalists in it or winners in it or do we want one draft per algorithm I think it's really important to in order to know how to structure the call for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "adoption take a poll okay we can do that get in the queue here if I press the button here so I used to hi this is Sean Turner I used to be in the camp for like one draft to roll them all and I've kind of been slayed over to the other side where it's like just have one draft per per algorithm because at the end of the day drafts are cheap these keys are big literally um so let's just keep them separate and I think implementers that really care don't want to Wade through all the other crap right so if they're picking one they just want to go with one and again it's just it's okay to we're not saying like this is the one this is the one we're starting with if we're going to do the other two great we'll do those two so I kind of like the idea of keeping one and it does kind of like you know I'm not the cryptographer where you know Jake is and he's like well I want to write 30 pages of security considerations about this particular thing it's better to just keep it all together because it's like then you've got a I don't know I think it's just going to be easier for people to get easier very smart people read these drafts and Implement them but at the end of the day um I think it just it'll be conceptually a little easier to have them separate yeah sorry I had technical difficulties with the queue I was just going to say this test called for a round four for signatures as well so if you put all three of them in one then there's going to be you know another one that comes out and then you'll have to do a separate draft anyway so you might as well just keep them separate I think from transmute agree and separating them in the Cozy and Hosey drafts that we've been developing we have them all together because it's easy at the beginning that way but I think for a number of reasons that have been mentioned all of which I agree it would be good to split them up particularly because of the call for additional algorithms from nist Roman hi Roman I just wanted to be uh I wanted"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "to be last so personal opinion I think we should split them into separate drafts you know 80 hat on I'll support what what the consensus is okay so I started a poll um should we put each signature algorithm in its own document um I I will I will observe that if nist publishes them at the same time we don't care if this staggers publication this aligns foreign [Laughter] okay 41-1 if the one person [Music] um it's pretty if that one person would like to speak and try and change the other's minds you're welcome tell us your opinion yes okay he had 11. so um does anyone object to doing a call for adoption for the um the lithium signature which is the one we have a draft for okay thank you um Michael"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "is uh can I mess up come on I didn't get slides okay my account's worth um let's talk about the composite stuff uh next slide so I'll acknowledge first there's a lot of I mean it's been going discussions going for a long time but weather composite or um non-complex like any if any of the hybrid stuff is like fundamentally actually useful or if we're just spinning trying to develop this stuff and I acknowledge that's a good debate and there's good arguments and NSA and ncsc have made their points clear and have good solid arguments and I'm not necessarily you know trying to push that composite is the way I do think though there's probably you know there exists a case in which it's useful and therefore I think there exists reason to standardize it and if people are going to do it anyway you know for even if it's for ill devised purposes I think giving a standardized way to do it that's been cfrg reviewed is probably you know generally good for Humanity so I'm not up here trying to argue that composite is the one and only way but I am up here arguing that I think if people are going to do it we should standardize it and also it's easy and we can do it independently from the algorithm definitions because it's totally algorithm agnostics so like why not this is sort of why I'm up here um so this slide deck is basically a call for adoption um I think keys and sigs are ready for adoption so I've my Sean had no slides"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:01",
    "text": "on adoption I have like six slides on why I think adoption is appropriate and then I've got a bid at the bottom about um Ken's we have a composite chem dropped up so let's go foreign so here's the status of the composite drafts Keys is an O2 and I think it's mature and ready for adoption signatures is an 07 I think it's ready for adoption we've done a lot of sort of Shifting stuff back and forth between the keys and the sigs draft I think that's all sort of stabilized now the one thing that's missing that we like had in and actively removed is the and or k of n any like all that sort of policy stuff um yeah once we started having or and any as distinct modes it got stupid and we just took it out um so I think that needs to go back in like we've our co-authored D trust in particular is like already deploying those sorts of modes so we need a way to specify it that's standardized I think it belongs in the Sig's draft probably it belongs as part of the signature algorithm not as part of the public key so that needs to go back in so these aren't final but um otherwise I think they're pretty mature and as you'll see in a few slides we've got lots of starting to have lots of running code which is a sort of a checkpoint in itself and then finally there's composite chems so we just got composite chem 0 0 up um if you'll remember about a year ago we put a composite encryption draft in front of lamps and that was really just to sort of Garner feedback and we got a lot and we proposed in that draft a number of different ways of doing composite and by encryption I mean um like CMS encryption where you're trying to encrypt for a recipient with multiple public keys on different algorithms in a way that the recipient will have to use all their keys to unlock the content so we put forward a bunch of different proposals I think we've settled on wrapping it all up inside a chem so you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "can have an RSA key trans and an x25519 and uh kyber and you roll them all up together and on the outside it looks like a single chem algorithm and will fit anywhere that again algorithm fits is the method we ended up settling on that's brand new I think that draft is currently more lines of endnote than lines of text so uh yeah please feedback okay next um rough consensus we've got a we're Gathering snowball of authors which is great we're starting to gather a fair number of positive reviews which is great so I think we're clearing the rough consensus bar next I think we're also starting to clear the running code bar and Trust obviously has you know we we have this uh semi-semi-commercially uh bouncy castle recently we just did full integration tests against bouncy castle so that's like full um supportive composite uh we are currently working on an oqs open SSL implementation I think we'll have that complete by 115. and then our co-authors obviously have their own proprietary which were sort of in various stages of uh integration testing against so I think we're also clearing the running code bar here dkg uh hi Daniel Khan Gilmore uh so thanks for doing this work uh it's obviously something that people want and we want to put it forward and I just wanted to try to clarify um there's I heard a lot of pushback in this room earlier about parameters right we don't want to have parameters we don't want to have you know too many fiddly bits we want something specific this appears to be uh it's not using parameters but it is allowing a wide range of choices right because you can it's it's abstract enough that you can composite arbitrary things together uh yes and no depending on which section you're reading okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "um so I I guess I just wanted to highlight that this seems like attention here we're going to run into this in the open pgp working group as well when open btp gets around to doing this and I wanted to try to understand your thinking about or the group's thinking about why we want as much flexibility as there is here and what kind of constraints and flexibility you're willing to tolerate yeah so good question so we've written the draft just trying to provide tools like anywhere people have asked for a tool sure we can you know try and provide it so the draft at one point we had like generic composite and explicit composite as two separate drafts and we've now merged them so you can you can now with the same wire format say like like have an oid that says I am a generic composite public key and you'll have to look inside me to see what I am or you can have an oid that says I am an x25519 kyber key and that's going to be a bit of an oil explosion because you'll need to roll all the pairwise parameters in but we also provide a structure for minting those explicit combinations where the oid will tell you what's going to be in it so I I guess I was trying to point out that all of these parameters and all this flexibility and all this toolkit is appealing to those of us who like fancy tools but when we're talking about interop on the actual Network what we need is clear guidance and uh constraints right if if you if you pave a big parking lot people will crash but if you give them rails they'll ride in the direction that you want them to ride and it sounds to me like this is Paving a big parking lot and there's going to be some crashes um hey this is Sean Turner um I just want to say that one of the reasons why we went for the don't do the whole composite thing was a little bit of that and you're right because there are rails but people can like put three wheels on it and like do all kinds of fun things and one of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:01",
    "text": "reasons why we decided to go with less right is is that you're arguing an analogy oh yeah so I'm not trying to say good or bad whatever but like at the end of the day when this did elliptic curve we had too many choices and people were like what are we gonna do and oh look we've got this name curve thing and we'll give you this crazy pants stuff so we did the 5480 draft uh RFC ended up as a tiger team and I remember we got on the call and uh um the guy from Microsoft his name's escaping note uh Kelvin was just like stop with the choices we don't want to do all this and it was like let's just pick annoyed well great then all this crazy pants asn1 stuff that wish we would have to specify just fell away I don't know that helped I think IPR was actually the bigger problem but at the end of the day that was one of the things where it was like there's too many and so that's why from my perspective when we're doing it let's just do less because maybe that is but if it's a commercial need I don't know because I mean PKS doesn't have a really good track record or the pki world of picking a clear winner there's like six enrollment protocols right if you're running an Enterprise it sucks right because you got to support every one of those freaking things and it is it is what it is right so I don't know that's just some background for for thoughts for future when you go to openpgp and be like what do we want to do so I was putting thinking putting on my hat is like editor of this draft if that's what the working group wants to do we want to like use the Machinery we have here but then just say you know Thou shalt to these two algorithms I'm fine if it turns into that that's a totally reasonable direction for this okay next so on the topic of running code my co-worker John Gray and I are gonna volunteer to show up at the 115 hackathon uh with the interest implementation the bouncy castle implementation the uh hopefully by then oqs implementation and that's that would be I guess like signatures and chems if"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:02",
    "text": "that happens as well as composite like if you want to come and test your PQ x509 you know crl s mime whatever we're going to be at that we're gonna volunteer to be at the hackathon to come test against I think we're I think we're sort of ready for that next question about your plans are are you are you Michael Richardson are you um are you going to run some enrollment protocols because we have so many of them is that Wonder response yeah yeah no I actually I'm serious I was thinking about this and go well there's no point in me bringing my open SSL implementation of a CA that does something because you already have one but then occurred to me but the the what I have clients that would want to talk to it because I would now of course like to sign a CSR with a PQ algorithm right and send it to you and get something so um that so that's why I'm seriously actually asking that question is that within your your thinking the hackathon I mean so so let's use some mail list bandwidth deciding what people want then show up and test it yeah I was just going to say whatever you want we can probably do and oh we can already do csrs and sign them with this stuff okay all that cool stuff so let us know in the mail list okay next uh this slide I don't know that I necessarily needed it but it's sort of a plug I personally don't view the composite and non-composite as um like competing in fact I think there's a lot of good uses for both that are independent like the negotiated TLS type stuff non-composite probably makes a lot more sense but the totally offline you know code signing whatever maybe the composite does make a lot more sense like I think there's you know there exists at least one strong argument use case for each um I also want to point out because I think this gets lost a bit that it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:00",
    "text": "totally possible to do both together at the same time like you could imagine a non-composite TLS handshake you show up with two separate certificates from two separate Cas and one of them happens to be a composite x509 RX x2509 and kyber together and you non-composite that with the RSA or like you know you can imagine he's getting used together so I don't know that they're competing and I don't I don't want to think of them as competing I think they're both useful I didn't not in the back and I think I do want to chat with you hi next uh just a reminder we have Milestones dated like you know in the past adopting these drafts would satisfy next [Laughter] uh yeah here's John's slide um yeah are we ready to adopties hi Jonathan Hamel so what what concerned me is that you're asking for adoption but then early on you said that oh well you ripped out the composite ore in any but you may put that back in and to me I think that how it is now where it's simple it's and um should be done first and then separate draft could do the Alternatives because because they have different security considerations yeah the modes can go in and separate drafts there and possibly different IPR because there is an IPR statement on on this draft Gilmore again um I I do think that these should be adopted it seems like that's what we're talking about in this working group and it's obviously it's a milestone so sure I wanna um my understanding from this the point earlier about well we we might want to add in add back in the or or the N of K"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:01",
    "text": "of n or whatever and adding that specifically to the signatures worries me a bit in that if you're saying here is one composite key and it can make two different kinds of signatures you're now creating a negotiation problem right because someone who's going to be relying on a signature is now is to express to the signer which types of signatures that's that key can produce and I don't know in the places where this plans to be used if we have any clear documentation about what kinds of negotiation might be done in the interest of did I did I understand what you're proposing for making that change I mean I guess I'm I'm seconding the the earlier comment that said please let's not drag that stuff back in let's just go with that yeah so uh first comment is um I'm trying not like I didn't do any technical content in these slides I'm just trying to keep it focused on adoption and maybe mailing list is in the interest of time better for technicals um second yeah the and versus or I mean there are use cases for or they exist there's people who can they want a flag day now to support composite and start shipping them and then Flag Day later to turn the algorithms on like there's those sorts of use cases floating around it's like I think there's enough people who want an ore and just people who want or in sort of all sorts of weird permutations like every time I take it out I get pushed back so I I don't know Victor Duchovny uh Google public DNS uh I'm wondering uh how this plays into things like you know tlsa records which carry a hash of an spki you know is this does this not become ambiguous uh in light of the uh the new complexity uh you know if I will know that I trust a particular spki uh you know if it can be used in a variety of ways I guess it's the same question in some ways uh what's likely to be happening here that already"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "exists with RSA right an RSA key can be used with a number of assigning algorithms is that fundamentally different here thank you uh if it's the same p uh it doesn't really matter which algorithm if tlsa can specify TLS you negotiate the signature algorithms on The Wire it's not a big deal yeah maybe this is a mailing list topic probably deeper than I can think of on the spot but the answer probably is no there's a canonical encoding for these and look at that I did it okay so this is Deb cooling sorry I took my badge off um so my while I think it's very good that you've got a bunch of people interested in implementing these fancy tools my question is who do you envisage as the users of these things as a person who deals with very large pkis I will tell you I do not see those pkis using these tools so my question is who is the Right audience for these things yeah that's a fabulous question that I've been asked every time I get up here and I still don't have an answer that I can say publicly I mean we do have customers who would buy it but I can't you know use them as an example and no one's really come forward just as a co-author to as a user base it's a fair it's a fair question that I acknowledge so my question is if you're going to call for adoption and spend working group time to work on something that is indeed a fancy tool and very complicated and unlikely in my opinion to be implemented correctly on a regular basis if ever question is are you actually interested in spending working group time on it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:09",
    "text": "yeah I was just going to say that kind of puts it down around what I was going to say but um well I was just going to say we're calling for adoption to it in regards to one of the previous questions so I mean we expect that there will be some changes or you know depending on what happens on the mailing list like the andon or discussion like Mike said that's come and gone and come and gone um so yeah that's expected in terms of uh I guess maybe to address what Deb was just saying I mean I can't acknowledge customers as well but I know we have a lot of people interested in using this I think the extra security that it can provide especially if you're looking at the transition period where we're not sure we trust these post Quantum algorithms fully yet but we're not sure if there's a quantum computer I think that is a very compelling use case for using these and I think customers with high shirts pkis would appreciate that so that's that's how I see that so a lot of maybe a bit of a a completely hand wavy answer to Deb's question um in that it just opens more permutations but you could imagine using the sigs without using the keys like you could imagine a multi-certificate operation that wants to carry its multiple signatures in the composite structure like an example would be the CMS sign data you know we can already already carry multiple certs but maybe you want to to Really make it clear that this is a composite operation you want to roll them into a single signature and so you want the data format to have one signature that points back to multiple certificates like there might be there might be uses like that I don't not aware of any protocols that want to do that yet but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:00",
    "text": "let's see you know nobody this is Roy Williams if don't be standing up to say hey they want to build something cool and and far-reaching on this just building it and hoping somebody comes to it I think is a non-goal unless somebody's willing to say hey this is what I want to use it for I think it's just open up a Pandora's Box okay [Music] um let's take these separately does anyone um at this point object to a call for adoption on composite keys well we have at least one on in chat um so uh Yuri if you would like to talk to your reasons for not liking composite I think it would be a good thing to do at this time so so we need to discuss that further on the list um and is there anyone who would speak against a call for adoption on composite cigs it's the Andor thing right sorry this is Jonathan Hamill again so just to reiterate my previous comment if the plan is to significantly change from what it is now I abduct to adoption on the draft because I think that needs to be fixed before we do the call for adoption okay so let's be clear um is anyone object to a call for composite cigs with the with the current and structure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "yeah so at least one person is again so we're going to discuss that on the list as well okay thank you perfect and then one more slide I guess technically technically two more slides uh yeah so composite chems um assuming this is a thing we want to do um so this this draft is complicated cryptographically and I don't want to spend a lot of time up here other than to say that this has been slow to come out because we had to define a bunch of crypto which is a terrifying sentence um so the two pieces of crypto we couldn't avoid having to Define is Transformations from a key trends into a chem and from a key agree into a chem so we can then treat everything as a chem and combine chems with chems I think those Transformations are sound we base one of them at least on Roc 5990 RSA cam the key agree to chem I think is also sound that it's new crypto so I'm flagging it and then combiners is like a mess as soon as you allow RSA key trans where the attacker could potentially have full control over the shared secret and then they get concatenated and you got to worry about one shared secret doing block Cipher boundary junk against the other shared secret then it becomes a mess there's a fair amount of academic literature out there and like fresh to the 2018 2019 2021 about how to do combiners and you know you've got some number of shared secrets and some number of Cipher texts and you want to somehow roll them into one shared secret and there seems to be a lot of different proposals for how to do that with terrifying complexity so that's yeah that that's a bit scary and that it's not clear how to do that um maybe one way is we sort of we restrict ourselves down like restrict the problem statement down so it's more tractable like maybe we just ban key trends and then a lot of this goes away um TLS doesn't have this much problem because they're ephemeral ephemeral you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:00",
    "text": "don't have to worry about like adaptive attacks because the server is only going to use its key once but in CMS you do so I think this is a more difficult problem than what TLS is tackling and it's yeah we need help or Direction uh either in doing the crypto rate or in simplifying the problem thank you okay so that sounded like a plea for review to me complicated crypto stuff here is what I heard um all right I don't know who's presenting Ali Rebecca or Mike okay hello I'm Rebecca Guthrie I'm one of the authors of this draft I know I uploaded the hierarchy in the list ing this morning I uploaded them but they're not in the list to share why foreign with other words"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:05",
    "text": "sorry about that no worries okay so I'm just gonna give a hopefully brief update on the changes we've made since the previous version of this draft um so we uploaded the first version in March we presented on it at the lamps interim in April and we uploaded a new version in June based on the comments we received at the interim and on the mailing list I'm excited uh so some general changes uh we changed the title of the document um and we added a section which just gives an overview of the intended use case for this document uh specifically this is um if you're using a certificate with a traditional algorithm and you want to transition to using a post Quantum certificate possibly in conjunction with the traditional certificate last we narrowed the scope of the document so instead of using this mechanism for an arbitrary number of certificates we're just focusing on the two certificate case where you submit a CSR that references only one already existing certificate all right next one and so this is probably where we got most feedback and I think um we made a significant number of changes here so we changed the name of the the attribute um and we added a couple values in as well so we added request time which is binary time specified in RFC 6019 and this is to ensure freshness of the attribute um we added in location info which is just access description from 5280. so this up just lets you point to the location of the already issued certificate um let's see we kept um one of our Fields the same and this is just the assure and serial number field and then last we changed the signature so originally the signature was just um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:01",
    "text": "over that issue or in serial number and so now what we're doing is concatenating that value with the request time and then signing all right next slide we also made a minor well not so minor just one change to the extension and so instead of including just the cert ID which is the issue and serial number we're hashing over the entire certificate and so when I say entire certificate I mean the already issued certificate that we're referencing right that we want to to show is related um and I think that's about it um I didn't include a slide about questions related to adoption but I'm happy to answer any questions uh sorry I didn't join the queue is the request time just an answer or is it really expected to somehow line up with the clock so this doesn't already defined type from RFC 6019 which is just binary time we didn't put any normative statements about how in sync this has to be with exactly you know when when the CSR is submitted um but but the idea is that this will prevent reuse of the signature value specifically and so this is based on a comment we received in the the mail list to include a variable value in the signature okay I guess the question we've been asking all day is that he would have any objections to adopting this document okay so there's a request that the chairs add"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:02",
    "text": "this document to the related document list thank you all right I'm not seeing any objections so we'll have a call for adoption on the mail list thanks foreign just check that you're able to hear me yes we hear you right here perfect yes hi everybody apologies that I can't be there in person with you uh my name is Mike Osborne I work for IBM research in Switzerland um and responsible for the team that actually co-authored three of the nist um selected algorithms um this is a joint work with a couple of other with other industry vendors that have been looking in this topic for a while with the maybe the altruistic um thought about um let's look a little bit about um some of the learnings from from past episodes in crypto um realize that um I think one of the things to realize I think it's very um in terms of simplification in terms of hoping that there will be just two three uh oids for these things um it's a nice starting point but these algorithms never end up like that and depending how you start is going to influence how you end up so so the aim of this document really is is a set of um learnings on how to serialize and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:00",
    "text": "identify Keys um in in the sense of both wire formats identification the need to compress certain things with the with it with with the with the aim that that would help let's say um provide some upfronts um understanding about you know where things could evolve down the road we can go to the first slide please so this is the second iteration of the document right you you have controller with the slides oh if I uh apologies I'm a newbie here um in terms of how to ah I see no yeah okay that's my learning for today um so so [Laughter] never told them yeah so so we actually issued the document um with all of the in this finalists um earlier earlier in the year um obviously um there was some feedback in terms of guidance around oids or come to oids in a little bit um there's this concept about actually aligning with nist I mean actually my team is one of the teams negotiating and with nist on how the io IDs will look like and be defined um some feedback on asm1 syntax and things like this but um and some revisions around feedback on on some of the in the encoding so this is really just to step back and say this document is really about the these are you know you need to encode private Keys you need to encode public Keys let's let's look at how we can sort of like um you know Define define these such they can be um let's say the learnings can be adopted then by all of the other things that happen in in all of the other rfcs so we have a a draft update um you've probably seen the next chart which is okay since that draft update nist has uh made their selections like I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:03",
    "text": "can jump over that because you know the selections um but essentially there's work underway now to update the document in terms of removing other than this finalist algorithms um I picked up on the discussion about one document per algorithm versus multiple something that we can also look at but essentially we're restructuring the document according to the nist decision um adding the swings algorithm um because that was an alternative now it's uh now it's to be standardized um there was a set of discussion around this is a very hot discussion around um you know among some of us on the um what's on the Enterprise side um in terms of the ASM one syntax um I mean it goes into things like partially populated keys so one of the learnings that we as an organization have had is that yes you can start off all nice with um you know you have the full keys and everything but but but at some point then actually these really do not fit in some some existing protocols and standards and we needed to start to look at partially populated keys so for example private keys that do not have the public key inside them or where um or keys that can be expanded from a seed this sort of thing um and so so to look at those those trade-offs um let's say that discussion we decided to create a separate document um because there's essentially a debate around where you want the complexity you will have complexity uh it's just a question more of where you want it do you want it really in the serialization layer or do you want it in the layers above and um we thought it makes is a more value we create a separate document to sort of um debate the pros and cons about this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "this will essentially comes into the the question um no parameters or you know like one OD is is the parameters are implicit things like this um it's not going to be as easy as that I can tell you now we know already that they're going to be different forms of um dilithium for example deterministic non-deterministic we know already there's a lot of interest in the underlying symmetric um Primitives those that are accelerated today those that are not so we we do see that the this this nice concept of of Simplicity is just not going to be like that going down so this is essentially it's just that to help debate um that um decisions around those sort of things um obviously alignment with nist because aren't we're debating with this on on this topic um the there's interesting discussions around hybrid versus composite um we prefer to call these multi-key modes um because uh for there's various reasons among them IP reasons so um we understand observe and and and um I think it's great that the other proposals going off in this direction um and the um it's kind of like to understand so so what this what that really this this proposal is about is is really key Centric so so it really it's really kind of framed around keys not how these keys are used in signatures or how these keys are used in um into exchange protocols and things but but really it's it's the debate around uh storing defining and attaching keys to the the algorithms uh to to support them so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "so so there are there are some uh very ongoing debates around these multi-key modes as as we've heard in some of the uh discussions right now and then um so if we look at I can give examples of the platform that we have now so that the on IBM's larger platforms we're already on our second generation of these algorithms we're already signing things that need to be around a long time and so then there are there is the question of um migrating not keys but actually uh Keys being able to support or migrate between um different versions of algorithms so so some debate around um insofar as that's possible and it has been possible to um to look at what it takes then to actually um migrate Keys between different versions of the algorithm so as a newbie I think that's the last slide I think that's the last slide um so we will update in the next days the um the draft that we have to to represent in this selection as mentioned and thinking I think I'm asking for this to be adopted as a um as as a working item but then please correct me as if I'm using the wrong nomenclature so so Mike I'm kind of concerned that the direction that you're taking and the one we decided earlier are at odds um that you have all the finalists in here well you have even more than that but um and we're not sure that nist is going to release them all at the same time and so we can't approve we can't get ahead of mist and so the way you've structured it we could not approve this document till all of the algorithms are published whereas if you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:00",
    "text": "had one per algorithm we could release the as they were done I think that's fine I think that's that's what I picked up so so actually then to restructure the document where to actually create four documents out of this I think sounds like a sensible suggestion yeah and so we'll we'll do a call for adapt on each of those oh okay okay that's how it works okay okay um Michael's running to the mic Michael Richardson um so as I understand you are doing the private key formats in pkcs8 for the various pieces that's that's right so I'm wondering when we do have formats for PK CSA yeah yes it if you want to put them in pkcs8 this is how you do it right correct so so I'm I have only learned through your document today so I'm ready yet but I'm I'm thinking that there's maybe a lot of commonality and so maybe the first document that we approve winds up having more details about things like that um and then the subsequent ones just say and I don't know okay I just wondered whether whether that's a part part where we're we're no needlessly repeating or is it needful repeating no they're different enough they're really enough okay thank you especially if you look at Sphinx there's like nothing so um hi this is Sean Turner I guess there'll be some overlap and we'll have to do some uh horse trading to figure out where they're gonna go because the draft that I had actually put the private key format in the draft as well so there's a little bit of like well what are we gonna do because again one place for the implementers to go I'm just trying to figure out what's gonna what's gonna go on so and again the only thing the only other thing I want to say is like in in very not too distant past the choices didn't help so I understand"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "that some people want to have all the bells and whistles and all the knobs and that didn't help broadly speak it didn't help adoption it actually like slowed it down and then there was IPR in the whole nine yards so I appreciate when it's like hey we can drop stuff out that sounds like compressed Keys is that IPR I don't know so we'll see what happens when all the good point let's let's um let's have the discussion of whether when this being broken up should be put into each of the other documents instead that'd be a option okay all right I'm shocked we only ran two minutes over all right thank you is that a good thing or a bad thing [Music]"
  }
]
