[
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:56",
    "text": "you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:07:10",
    "text": "seems like some harmless hi everybody my name is los loros dead working with yes calm I\u0027ve got a pleasure to all over the security topics draft together with Andre lab and Ed from Facebook and John Bradley I would like to talk about the current status of this draft but let me start with the objective so why did we start to work on this draft just to recapture there are three main reasons first of all since we published ooofff and that means RFC 67 49 and 15 all of us gotten a massive traction and what we have seen in the market is that people just don\u0027t get it right sometimes so there are some issues out there that we never thought about that there are some things in the spec that are not precise enough or at least not actionable enough for a rich developer and I wouldn\u0027t blame the development for that so I think it\u0027s our task to to be more clear and to come up with recommendations how to do it right and how to do is secure secondly um the original trust model of oo-ahh for the regional way-o of was used was rather simple there was a service provider with a API and an O of server and a lonely developer that developed an application toe boards is API and the particular authorization server so everything everything had set up a development time so now things change there are communities publishing api\u0027s there are communities in the financial area or in the mobile network operations area that build whole ecosystems based on off and open ID connect and in this situation the trust relationship is established dynamically and we have to cope with these situations as well and third all of is used all over the place and also in areas which are much more security sensitive than we thought about previously for example in the financial industry for health data and a lot of other cases so those are the three main objectives or main reasons why we started to work on this on this draft which more or less sits on top of RFC 6890 in the security threat model and tries to complement that and make it more more specific next slide please yeah so the intention is to come up with a comprehensive overview on all the tab topics that are opened right now in the wild and this way and do more less um "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:11",
    "text": "systematically discuss all the different no there is no monitor monitor is of okay - two - two more or less conduct a systematical discussion about all those topics in the working group so the threat analysis and also potential countermeasures and then come up in the end and that\u0027s that\u0027s the primary goal with recommendations for developers how to use off in a secure fashion and also and we will see we already have one more recommendation along that line recommendations to other off working group either to change extend or enhance off so that\u0027s the idea next slide please thank you so so the structure of the document is as follows um there is a readable number threat analysis and discussion of the different countermeasures and as you can see there is a variety of different of different attacks angles that we that we cover in the document so there is a lot of stuff around abuse or misuse of the redirect based of pieces of off namely open redirection xsrf code injection mix-up and all the stuff with attacks in the browser and we also have a table in a section on on token leakage on the resource server and for those of you that are were in Prague we had a discussion in Prague about exactly on this access to leakage thing we discussed all the different countermeasures that were available and also came up with an kind of assessment okay so this is more or less that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s where we a document the results of our work basically and then we we distill recommendations and those are intended to be actionable for the average developer next slide please sorry no problem that\u0027s the that\u0027s the full list of recommendations that we have put into the document so far I just want to briefly go through it just to make you aware of what we are gonna recommend the first of all there\u0027s been a long discussion about redirect UI validation at the resource they are authorization server and in our opinion are the only reasonable way forward is to to to recommend to use exact your I redirect matching because that\u0027s that\u0027s that\u0027s one of the easiest to implement countermeasures against token leakage and also mix-up but it\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s an incredible over a protection concept open redirection I think it\u0027s it\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:13:12",
    "text": "straightforward access for F I mean it\u0027s already there and our C 67 49 but it\u0027s not as precise and specific we make it more specific and say please use X or F one time used tokens in the state parameters period um a specific redirect URIs use of that had already been documented in the in the respective draft by Mike I think one potentially very interesting interesting recommendation is we we did a lot of analysis around code injection and there are different countermeasures available ranging from concepts in the open ID Connect space like nuns or the hybrid pro and others but in the end we wanted to come up recommendation that is implementable on top of OAuth and does not require open ID Connect that\u0027s why we recommend to use pixie for that purpose which might sound a bit surprisingly on first side but in the end what pixie gives us is a nuns that helps the client on a s to tie together the whole transaction following the redirect and the interaction with the token end point so I think that that\u0027s that\u0027s why we think using pixie or for that purpose is is a very reasonable way forward um based on the discussions in Prague and also on the security our workshop in Zurich and also the feedback especially in Prague we decided to recommend as a best practice to to implementers to use TLS based sender constraint access token methods over all the ins restriction or other other methods for for pop tokens just because it\u0027s it\u0027s easier we think it\u0027s easier to implement and it\u0027s it\u0027s easier to implement especially with MPLS with xxe and existing technology and it goes back to the origin of OAuth where most of the security is based on TLS I\u0027m not on application level stuff yeah and the last point I mean where there was a discussion also in Prague not in the wharf session but in a another session I don\u0027t forget I forgot the working groups name versus the TLS where you presented your proxy think yeah Brian dog whining thank you and based on that discussion I also added some text about terminating proxies TLS terminating proxies the attack angles around that and we think a reasonable recommendation is to use and to s TLS wherever possible so this is meant to be a set of recommendations it doesn\u0027t does not mean that people cannot do things differently but we think that will make sense for 80 percent of all the implementations out there next slide please okay we also recommend one change to RFC 67 49 because we think when we recommend "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:15",
    "text": "a pixie for a code injection along with execute URI redirect matching then we no longer need to force the clients to send the actual redirect URI to the token end point in the code exchange which in our perception is not that easy to implement which typically leads people to implement implement it in the wrong way by just doing pattern matching on that URL and that completely misses the point right because the actual URI is very important to detect some kinds of men in the middle code replay injection attacks so we think pixie is demova more effective approach and we would recommend to to issue in a rata and and change our C 67 49 to remove that which would make implementation of off a lot easier next slide okay that\u0027s just the status the way we are published Oh dick yeah so if you\u0027re taking out redirect your I would you be then saying that you have to do is use pixie then yes okay so it isn\u0027t just taking that out it\u0027s replacing the new you\u0027re right okay you\u0027re right okay um we published two versions since prac and the most significant change was that we added added to the text around token leakage at the resource server I already talked about when we did so we discuss extensively the use of more metadata to to prevent that threat also all the answers diction is being discussed and the different mechanisms that exist today for central constraints access tokens and we restructured the BCP in order to improve the readability of the whole arm specification the most important point for my perspective and that\u0027s why I really try to to talk you through the whole the whole document and how its kind of organized and and what the objective is please review the document to give us feedback we need your contributions right so far I think three or four working group members have actively given as feedback but I think this is essential for somehow coming up with a BCP a best current practice document that you can put developers in their hands to implement off correctly yeah that\u0027s it thank you so can we get volunteers to review this document thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:19:19",
    "text": "I might a couple a couple of questions I think I might have mentioned this in Prague but one of the things that we need to be careful with this document is who the who the intended audience is going to be right because when I when I first saw a previous draft before these two new revisions one of the things that I expected to see in the draft isn\u0027t there for instance when I think of let\u0027s pick on a like a mutual TLS right I would expect somewhere some document of ours to say here\u0027s what this does and here\u0027s what this doesn\u0027t do here\u0027s what you can expect if you\u0027re the problems that you\u0027re sort of you space now they can go they can go to the mutual TLS document and read some of that but that when I saw the original title going back to the very first slide it\u0027s security topics right where the document is absolutely dominated by threats and mitigations I mean 90% of the document is that so I have two comments or two suggestions and maybe this is a question for the working group chairs as well is that if we go ahead and take this document push it through last call and publish it all right what happens when a workshop next year or the year after finds other vulnerabilities are we in a position where we have to keep revising the document not that that\u0027s a bad thing but that\u0027s a an onerous task for a working group I think over time you wouldn\u0027t want to keep this as just an internet draft you wouldn\u0027t just want to leave it in that state because one of the things is it won\u0027t get the visibility it needs to have the intended effect for the audience so I think well I\u0027m not doing a good job of saying it here I think one of the things that needs to be thought about here is thinking about the audience and one of the suggestions might be is to separate the threats and mitigations part of it into a separate document that then easily revisable and the other security topics perhaps add to those security topics particular particular features of ways that we\u0027ve extended OAuth right and what what their features are so that\u0027s a want to start by saying I think this is outstanding work okay but now when I\u0027m thinking about who\u0027s going to read it I think well gee are they are they going to see the things that they expect to see yeah thank you um some thoughts from from my side yeah right now it\u0027s a working document for for the working group so the intention is to serve as a working document for the working group in the end I fully agree with you we should somehow split that because in the end the recommendations are that what\u0027s what suited for the for the average developer we had a lot we had several discussions about that and we decided to first of all go with this single document but the question is absolutely correct so one of the aspects is and I "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:19",
    "text": "believe this is a discussion that actually concerned the number of the documents is if we have this issue of how do we make sure that when we update the documents we actually then keep track of the latest date or data involving documents a little bit like that we had that debate in the native apps documents as well because things are changing operating systems are changing and the same is here and like threads change the priorities are changed so in what we found out is that this whole pcp idea is actually pretty good because we can still refer in other documents and and in other publications as to a PCB but keep updating the RFC so every time you you don\u0027t need to externally don\u0027t need to update your references either it always points to the latest version of the document and I think that in ensure some consistency and durability if you will of course it still requires us to actually produce text from time to time but my hope is that once we so we produce the initial strength document and a while ago and then we piled on threats afterwards so maybe the time frame between the publication of the initial document and this one was maybe a little bit too long but it doesn\u0027t need to be honor let\u0027s say a yearly cyclic eater so hopefully we are not going to see a tremendous amount of attacks every year so that\u0027s it is he in or not that\u0027s sort of my my approach to it like yes we will have to update the document to cover new things as they come along and thus PCP concept gives us a stable reference to the outside world does that at least address some of the comments I think that we have to have a schedule and still a schedule just saying that maybe that tax won\u0027t happen won\u0027t help us so you know I think that you know I don\u0027t know we used to other groups were it six month is a rule you don\u0027t give up because after that people forget what was the last version so some attacks that occur in a while but it\u0027s it\u0027s if there are variations of the same issue so to describe those it\u0027s not that we have totally different problems all the time luckily yeah that\u0027s right as I said most of the most of the attacks are either because there are some gaps in a specification or we\u0027re not precise enough in the origin RFC in a second because a complete change had more of "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:25:20",
    "text": "the trust model because of the use of all of today which is completely different than when we started so I\u0027ll just follow up an answer to your question I think it is a BCP is a good model certainly better for instance DNS op has a terminology draft right that they leave an internet draft status oh and they revised it over and over and over again that\u0027s not a very effective model because no one can see it\u0027s very hard to find that document nobody sees it and it doesn\u0027t get the gravitas that you would get if you actually went ahead and published a document I will say and I\u0027ll just put in this minor is that if this document is is targeted at developers it\u0027s great and that\u0027s that\u0027s wonderful but remember that I think we see now that there are people that other than developers who are coming to us and asking us what are the implications of this and what are the implications of that and if this isn\u0027t the document where we answer those questions that\u0027s cool but we should potentially have a document where the target audience isn\u0027t the developing community yeah yeah that\u0027s a good point and obviously keeping the target audience of a document in mind is crucially important we had this Owens thought net website to actually reach out to a different type of community and more the guys who typically may not read the RFC\u0027s so that\u0027s why we wrote separate blog posts in a very simplistic way in some sense who are the other people besides developers people who operate operate the server who have more operational experience rather than writing libraries for example like not everyone writes their own code sure but if you\u0027re using a library you\u0027re a developer still no I would make a difference between the person who actually writes and an identity management server authorization server from the person who actually just uses it I can download quartz rock and configure it\u0027s still a hard with my own OS implementation I think this makes a huge difference for you I\u0027m a son it may not make a difference because you\u0027re big shop you write everything on your own I try to spank anybody that wants to re-implement an open standard maybe you because I\u0027m good at spanking okay so I\u0027m gonna cut my brat Brian out are you lying yeah so I had dick Hart Amazon and and Brian was being played and let me respond there was a comment about breaking into two different documents and I think that would be the wrong approach I think you want to have at the top people understand what should I do and then as I have encountered many time people say well why should I do that and then there\u0027s links to why later in the documents of they don\u0027t think well I know better that the backing and the threat and they really understand why you\u0027re doing in a certain way I think that\u0027s very important in security things it\u0027s supposed to say here\u0027s how to do it "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:21",
    "text": "and in people like well okay and they wiggle around but they don\u0027t really understand why and having the why I think is super valuable and once again kudos for a great job doing this thank you what you also would mean that we should have references between the recommendations and the corresponding threat analysis which we don\u0027t have right now yeah I would highly recommend that that this is this is mitigating these things further down alright and then similarly down in the threat its mitigated back up so people can easily see the reference back and forth okay thanks yeah standing tree or Brian Campbell from ping it\u0027s nice to meet you Torsten a couple things that I appreciate the doc I think it\u0027s it\u0027s really good I did have one sort of meta comment as I was reading through it you discuss in some places a variety of different techniques that could be used to mitigate something and I think for someone that\u0027s not intimately familiar with some of the history of what goes on in this group that it could be a little bit potentially confusing and I think it might be helpful to clearly delineate between things that are sort of have been discussed as options but aren\u0027t necessarily viable solutions versus the recommended approach and there\u0027s a few those I can think of two offhand one would be audience restricting access tokens conceptually it works there\u0027s not a great way to do it you reference an individual draft that I wrote that the working group didn\u0027t adopt so I alone I alone wrote the text based on concepts that came from brilliant people like our co-chair but and and so like a client couldn\u0027t so what you are suggesting is that also in the in the analysis we should clearly point out what what technique me we gonna recommend ya for what reason qualified because a client couldn\u0027t send the odd parameter and expect to receive a audience bound token because it\u0027s not it\u0027s not standard similarly with with the mix-up mitigation there\u0027s that draft out there that we sort of abandon that has recommends issuer and and but a client couldn\u0027t depend on that because it\u0027s not standard is not out there it\u0027s useful for discussion but I think saying you know a little qualification around that would be useful yeah so maybe one comment about this would it make sense to put those that are not recommended as a pet and appendix instead of keeping in text I don\u0027t know I think I think I think that\u0027s fine that\u0027s fine it did the reason why we don\u0027t have the read that clear recommendation in the main and the main body if the document is because we didn\u0027t have the recommendation section earlier so we just have this oh let\u0027s let\u0027s first gather everything together and have a discussion and then we decide oh we need this recommendation section so in the end it\u0027s more for historical "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:31:22",
    "text": "reasons that we do not really clearly speak out what okay and we haven\u0027t had to good enough discussion a working group for some of those topics that\u0027s why I\u0027m rather reluctant to to recommend something I think just a little more yeah yeah I mean for the token leakage for example we had in very intensive and intensive discussion of track and based on that it\u0027s very easy to to more or less point out why we decided which way just wanted to say I follow all your reasoning and I actually agree with the reasoning behind dropping the redirect URI sent to the token endpoint and why it doesn\u0027t work well in practice but I am less keen on actually changing the underlying protocol cuz I think there\u0027s just because the reasoning sound there\u0027s ramifications of actually doing that reven or updating the core document and then trying to gauge we need to have a new document that updates the core doc you know and we I think the worst most suggesting to use their rather process ooh I I mean if you don\u0027t have change order RFC we at least need to recommend additional countermeasures I I agree with that that\u0027s that\u0027s necessary taking into account than compatibility with the different versions would need to would be necessary I don\u0027t know if you can make a change like that in an errata I\u0027m not a process monk but I would say you can\u0027t because it\u0027s pretty a pretty large normative change but you\u0027re the chair anyway so I agree with the logic but I but I think we need to sort of need to tread carefully in that area that\u0027s all thanks for thank you John so as one of the co-authors we agree with Torsten that you know this was originally a bunch of different documents a bunch of different ideas and we tried to pull all of the options together so that the workgroup could make decisions now us not making arbitrary decisions on behalf of the work group was actually perhaps difficult for us so we\u0027ve we\u0027ve made recommendations but it\u0027s still up to the workgroup to decide which of those recommendations to to actually follow up on and at that point we can say yes reconstitute Brian\u0027s expired draft or do this or that so that we can actually make final concrete recommendations so the recommendations aren\u0027t meant is we\u0027ve decided the working group must do this this is what we think is the best way forward but the work work still has to make the decision so I guess maybe it would be good to take what if you guys could tell us when it would be a good time to do sort of a consensus on some of the recommendations because the problem that we had back then was that many of the issues were not naturally orthogonal to each other so you couldn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:22",
    "text": "make a decision on one thing because they were also in the dependencies so yeah it doesn\u0027t quite clear to me on like what\u0027s a good point to actually say here\u0027s the thing that we are proposing and now we make a decision but I saw this more as a work in progress you will it will take you some time to work through all that the the details and the analysis and then we make and I have to say we are not still not through yet but I think we have covered the most important points the reader right stuff at the top my leakage yeah we can we can never be we can have a quick look but I think it\u0027s it\u0027s a good time now and and we can have another round when we have covered our stuff but I think now we have covered the most the most important stuff because we have ranking according to this so people okay sorry right Hans taking notes yep there we go how\u0027s that okay oh and this doesn\u0027t work okay okay how\u0027s that okay I\u0027m showing the pink square I think it\u0027s been about eight years since I\u0027ve stood in the pink square last time I was up here I got a lot of arrows in me so hopefully that doesn\u0027t happen this time next slide so mutual oh this is a problem that we\u0027ve encountered I work hard I work in Amazon one of the groups I work heavily with is Alexa one of those Nero\u0027s we have is there\u0027s two different parties one of the parties that is public is you know the Alexa and so knows we want to enable the user to authorize each of those parties to call the other one and so in the document I call them party a and party B since both party a and party B are both clients authorization servers and protected resources does anyone have questions about what the problem is is this pretty clear okay so I\u0027m just walked through the current flow around what we have to do today essentially we have to go through to full o auth flows which is even clunkier than just two different flows because your end up in the wrong place after the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:37:22",
    "text": "first flow so you have to go bounce over and stuff like that we find if you\u0027ve got an Alexa device used to also knows it seems like it\u0027s probably a 50 step process to get it up and running by the time you\u0027re done so in the first flow year since you go through click the ad Sonos go to Sonos you authenticate you authorize Alexa bill you so knows the user gets back sent back over to Alexa behind the scenes Alexa goes and gets its its access token and then Alexa then redirects over to Sonos to get the thing kicked off again go to the next slide and then sono redirects back over to login with Amazon for the user to login which is confusing because yeah well your own like why am i login with Amazon I was already in Amazon but of course there\u0027s no active web session and so then user authenticates at Amazon and then authorizes so knows that Amazon music it\u0027s right check back to Sonos selects Oscillation code we exchanges it and then at the end the user gets redirected back over to Amazon so as you can see this is a fairly cumbersome process so the flow that we recommend essentially you go through the first flow and when you\u0027re done because we already have the context of the user both in Alexa and Amazon is Alexa calls a Sonos endpoint sometimes I get these backwards in my head I think this is right calls the Sonos endpoint with the access token that they got from so know so Sonos knows the context they pass an authorization code which then so knows uses and completes the rest of the flow back channel and the user doesn\u0027t see that and so it\u0027s it\u0027s kind of like you just go over and you made one authorization but the other one that happens behind the scenes okay yeah so I\u0027ve highlighted the one place it\u0027s different that\u0027s really the only new addition is how do we get that authorization code in a different way next slide so just to reiterate the authorization context of the user is really represented by the access token from the other party questions I do I actually have a question about No step 6 there so so you talked about Alexa call so no stock in the infant with Alexis authorization code is that supposed to be songs no it\u0027s supposed to be that the the same token that you get so so the flowing through and at the end of the first flow Alexa has an access token to call Sonos alright right right now we need Sonos to be able to get an access token to call Alexa and so Alexa calls Sonos with Alexis authorization code right and then Sonos calls back up to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:25",
    "text": "Alexa with that authorization code ins client ID and secret to exchange it for an access token which then lets it so knows have an access token for Alexa so that don\u0027t make sense now where were the steps before that where does where do you get that LexA authorization code it doesn\u0027t say it Alexa just makes it just like how it would make it any other time I see so at the completion Alexa says okay you\u0027ve completed I now have an authorized an access code for you I\u0027m going to mint an authorization code representing the scope that you\u0027ve pre-configured so one of the differences here is there\u0027s no the scope had to be predestined beforehand but since you know the transaction you\u0027re in you would know that in this particular handshake I know what scope you\u0027re going to get so you\u0027ve skipped all the steps that came up to getting the authorization code you\u0027re passing that back channel in set a front channel and then so that\u0027s the different part and then after that so nose just operates the way they before I\u0027ve exchanged that authorization code for an access token refresh token Adam das from Google when do you when and how do you factor in the Amazon consent to so knows you have two consents that the user needs to agree to yes I only see one here so one the second the first one of course happens when you bounce over to so knows and someone is this granting access you could do it either what either before you even start bouncing over to Sonos or you could do it after you get back because you\u0027re in the Amazon context and and so it\u0027s you know you\u0027re on Alexa so at some point in there Alexa connects ask for that consent but you make a good point I should highlight that it should happen but it could happen at either time when it\u0027s in the Alexa interface and you should gate that reach using the access token from Sonos on the consent right which could be happen a priori and if you get it you do it or you get it when you get it back right Justin richer in step six is there value in using the authorization code as opposed to just doing a direct token injection there since the LexA is generating something and going over a protected channel and all of that why have the extra round trip is there value to that it feels like there would be but I\u0027m struggling to articulate what it would be we thought a little bit about that we went with this flow because you got a lot of the you minimize the change and so the whole granting of the access token is the same process okay right and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:43:25",
    "text": "so right you your Sonos is enabled to go and get a access token the same way because there may be other the reverse flow happens as well right where you\u0027re starting in and you start off getting a token and then you\u0027re calling the other way and so it enables a lot more reuse of everything as opposed to having completely different paths okay so it was more of a development pragmatism than a specific security requirement or something that is what I\u0027m hearing I don\u0027t recall security work um there may have been something okay I\u0027m always a little squeamish I\u0027m just randomly handing out access tokens well yeah so that just didn\u0027t feel good and I agree with that squeamishness and so that\u0027s why I was wondering if there had been some analysis but all right thank you have that answers thanks for pointing that out Hannes Mike Jones was yawning for Justin\u0027s question yawning on my answer to your question okay I think that\u0027s so the question would be is this something that the working groups interested in I turn it over the chairs to see whether yeah whether there\u0027s interest in that and if I don\u0027t you know look I doubt if anyone\u0027s had a time to read the draft so I don\u0027t know pretty tightly I renamed I renamed it yes yes I I named it how it was titled as opposed to how it should work so it would be Auto parsed think we should document is this so let me ask do you think that this is a question and a problem that the working group should be working on raise your hand okay race raise your hand if you think that is we should important this idea I forget the dumb idea no but yeah if you raise your hand if you object you shouldn\u0027t work pretty good will confirm it on a mailing list yeah so for a minute it was about certain party people in favor and nobody against Brian you want "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:25",
    "text": "I\u0027m not against but actually Phil just asked a question that I I think I was gonna ask something else did you look at any of the existing mechanisms like doing something like token exchange to accomplish the same same goal as well I think in before you answer I think my question was more about do we want to have a description of that problem and so people know how do there may be multiple different ways of sorting it and obviously as you can judge from these details there\u0027s obviously a lot of work to do and also you are document but it\u0027s not exhaustive and it\u0027s actually I fought when I initially picked up the document my other comment is could you change the name again because I can predict right now customers asking for one or the other and getting the names confused and then having to explain it and bilateral OAuth or I don\u0027t know anything that doesn\u0027t open to suggestions it was the one that made sense that I need well just like the other reason has any mutual by the same reasons they both make sons I\u0027m worried about the implications of living together happy discussing the list titles changes yep okay thank you although it may make both of ours more popular we wanted to use something that used a lot of the exam existing machinery to minimize what somebody would have to do it\u0027s kind of kind of pointed token exchange - it\u0027s all just a call to the token endpoint with a token where you get back it now without sort of picking up on Justin\u0027s comment of like it\u0027s always seems little worrisome - okay there\u0027s now two ways if somebody gets a token instead of one way they get a token the it was really we had a different way around how did you get the authorization code yep oh good good feedback distributed there\u0027s something called distributed already but my my putting the stake in on that word to begin with this one\u0027s a little more complicated last one last one wasn\u0027t as complicated so as there\u0027s a couple of things I\u0027m working on where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:49:27",
    "text": "it\u0027s much more distributed the whole system and so in the original oweth it was very it was there was an authorization server it had maybe one or maybe a few resource servers and you know there was the client and it was a fairly closed you know you were going to flick her to go and get photos and so you knew who the authorization server and the resource and those things were fairly related that separating the authorization server for the resource server was a good architectural approach and now people have been taking advantage of that and the seperation is you come even more acute in a number of situations where the same client maybe may have similar resources but have different authorization servers because those resources are in different geopolitical or different security rounds but the client has access across all of those and so you just start to scale up and have a more distributed system it becomes brittle where you know you don\u0027t have this once we had a great word you know a priori knowledge of where is the a s by the client that the client doesn\u0027t know where that is and if it does know where it is then you can\u0027t change it because you got thousands of clients deployed that are using that and so in a big distributed system it\u0027s advantageous at times to make a change and so having a discovery process for the client learns where the a is is for a given protected resource and that a s could change provides a lot more flexibility in distributed system and so really what we\u0027re trying that\u0027s the problem and so that what we\u0027re trying to do is how do we enable discovery of the a s and as soon as you do discovery of a s and you get a bunch of threats so first we\u0027ll go how do we solve it I think my next slide here shows you know kind of a picture to give an idea around sort of the problem so it was a bunch of geopolitical domains each of them has their own authorization server and you got a couple resources in it but that one client wants to talk across all of those and so it needs to go and get access tokens across all of those you know you don\u0027t want the access tokens that one to be able to be used at another one so you don\u0027t want the s3 server and China to be able to call the s3 server in the US or you for example anybody have questions aren\u0027t I just want to make sure everyone understands the problem we\u0027re trying to solve you understand the problem Tony Tony are you still having breakfast with me tomorrow okay so the proposed solution is the plant discovers the authorization server as it hits the authorized hits the resource and in the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:27",
    "text": "401 response it\u0027s told where does it you know there\u0027s an issuer in that response as described here next slide so there\u0027s a number of threats that come up as soon as you do this that you know people have talked about a few times and I\u0027m keen to learn if there\u0027s threats that we haven\u0027t thought of and how could we could mitigate and making sure that we have mitigated all the threats one of the obvious ones is access token reuse where a particular resource could use that same token add another resource it\u0027s looking for the same scope the next one is you could ping a resource server and you could send information essentially for a different resource server and then you use the access token at that first resource server but that resource server then can go and use it at the resource server it\u0027s impersonating so we want to mitigate that and then the third is you know the authorization server is malicious either because the resource server sent you to a malicious or it just became malicious itself and so we want to make sure that the authorization server because you have multiple authorization servers that the client credentials can\u0027t be reused by an authorized ation server at another authorization server and so the mitigation access token reuse you know there\u0027s a number of ways on this and so the way we were looking at it is that in the call to the resource server the host that\u0027s in the TLS link is you know known that the resource server can\u0027t in person aid you know assuming that the TLS link is secure the resource server can\u0027t make up some other statement as to which post it is and so the host that you get from a TLS is saved in from calling the resource server and used when you call the authorization server and then that host is put into the access token and then when you\u0027re presenting that access token to the resource server the resource server checks to make sure that it\u0027s an access token for yet essentially audience restriction but that\u0027s how we get the signal for audience I think it\u0027s I\u0027m gonna wander around the room and get some water since my mic move well that\u0027s that\u0027s essentially the resource indicator draft that that we did well there\u0027s a problem with reusing the odd with using the audience name because it also conflicts with other things which is why we changed it to resource from audience but yes that\u0027s the one that we proposed and the workgroup didn\u0027t adopt "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:55:28",
    "text": "is there while you\u0027re standing still John was there do you recall why the working group didn\u0027t adopt it I think Phil objected and was there was generally angry words about resource metadata and how how the problem should be solved Brian and I proposed that there was another proposal from Phil and Tony about trying to get discovery to do it and the work group decided effectively wound up doing nothing at the time bill claims to have changed his mind subsequently Tony and mind I really don\u0027t want to comment hi Justin so in any case a couple of things here one obviously you could have multiple resources at a given host so this may not be the right granularity for certain setups you know shared server hosting things like that you could also have resources that bounce around with you know dynamic DNS and all this other fun stuff so but I think going to a going to a slightly different layer and because John brought up using discovery at the resource in order to start discovering stuff once you start doing discovery at the resource server you start running smack into some very real privacy issues in your design it doesn\u0027t come up as much at something the scale of Amazon but if you take the same concept and scale it down to a personal authorization server and personal you know resources that you may be protecting you go talk to a random server on the web and it\u0027s not going to give you the data it\u0027s not gonna tell you who it\u0027s about but it\u0027s gonna tell you I am John go talk to John Bradley\u0027s you know personal use authorization server to get information about whose server this is oh you just kind of leaked a whole lot of information about that and this is particularly sensitive if you\u0027re looking at things like personal medical records and data stores for things like that as well so if things do go in that direction with resource based discovery even just handing back the issuer could be very sensitive agree there\u0027s you are handing out information about the resources sharing information about itself and you want to make sure the resource can\u0027t impersonate that information and potentially in the draft we\u0027d call out call out that privacy issue so that people don\u0027t use it in a way where they\u0027re leaking stuff without realizing they\u0027re leaking yet okay yeah yeah yeah it\u0027s not a solution for everything in solution for ones where this essentially is public data yeah so like there was a jar that\u0027s a camera and all right just "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:29",
    "text": "like those dr. john surratt does expect this expired raft call off matter as well it\u0027s actually tackling same exactly same kind of thing the solutions was very similar and you know just the fact that something like this is coming up multiple time I think it\u0027s the kind of problem that working group probably won\u0027t work on Michael one more comment the the concept of issuer is an open ID connect one and we haven\u0027t actually come to terms with well I mean from a authorization server being identified by an issuer Olaf doesn\u0027t have what a concrete relationship for that okay Mike wants that that is metadata document defines issuer Dan in defined it every for it doesn\u0027t define discovery for it but the issuer concept is well defined and you can then obtain the metadata from it and validate the keys and whatnot so it is deferring for OAuth this is you know gone through I asked jeepers but the metadata is defined but how you actually disconnect the two is the part that the working group wasn\u0027t able to come to a conclusion on that so having an issuer URI that in how you get from that URI to they are the the discovery document that we have have so there is a bit of a gap robot needs evolution so in here this is this yes this is the issuer yeah well except that so you\u0027re you\u0027re reusing your it\u0027s wood you left from open ID Kinect is leaking over so yes sorry I did I didn\u0027t know that open ID connect had a monopoly on the term issuer so uh it\u0027s not part of an OAuth RFC so it\u0027s no in in the document I defined this is a new term to either call it something happy to have a different name but but it was a since it yeah yeah go on yeah so just for the sake in my draft I didn\u0027t use these sure it was like I thought well what it was but it was something that indicates authorization so that\u0027s it okay so it could be some point just a US this is awesome can you go to the next slide please next one yeah I like the concept of audience restriction I\u0027m a big fan of audience instructions as Anabella pointed out in Prague if you go for "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:01:30",
    "text": "audience restricted also access tokens means means we need to extend the protocol and clients need to be aware of that they need to ask for different access tokens for different resource servers we did it at watch italicum I wish to do it without me but if the working group wants to bring that forward and I would really really recommend to work on that because it\u0027s come it\u0027s popping up all over the place we need to consider that so it need it will change more or less the semantics of the authorization flow or these clients must be aware of the fact that is not sufficient to ask for single access token but they have to distinguish two different resource or does it have to send different access tokens to the fact that we do not don\u0027t have consensus on that topic so far is one of the of the reasons why we recommend send the constraint access tokens in the security BCP yeah we have worked on an extensive document regarding audience restriction discovery and stuff we haven\u0027t chatted with the working group so far so we can do that but there there\u0027s a lot there\u0027s a lot of work to do I would be very very happy to contribute that work and I really like that idea yeah I didn\u0027t call that out but yeah we are you are well I say it at the bottom right an implication of this is it requires an access token for each protected resource and so the clients managing that which our clients managing if they had a bunch of different authorization servers and access tokens right if if you have a client that\u0027s calling Google Flickr and Facebook it\u0027s got an access token for each one of those and as a separate AAS what this enables is a potentially the same as maybe issuing the same access tokens here is true and it\u0027s very very well Metris with all this on token pointing stuff and so on we have done that for years at Deutsche Telekom but the client needs to know how to ask for different access tokens we did it with different scope values right so this is a different or a profile of OAuth that we use to distinguish the difference also so we have to agree on a way on the way to do it yes that\u0027s and love to get your learnings and what you guys did to solve this so we\u0027re not reinventing everything yeah Justin again speaking of reinventing everything have you read the luma 2.0 distributed authorization not lately okay it\u0027s 2.0 is very different from 1.0 it is much closer to actually using OAuth and I haven\u0027t read your draft beyond just a quick skim of it but there\u0027s probably a lot of commonality and I\u0027m not saying Huma is going to be the end-all solution for what you\u0027re after but you would do well to at least read and understand it and know what the differences are if there are any because Huma sets out to do of a it to solve a very similar problem wherein you don\u0027t necessarily know the relationship between the a s and the RS ahead of time and the client "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:32",
    "text": "needs to learn that uma does uma accomplish this accomplishes this and accomplishes audience restriction using a ticket based system so the RS hands a ticket to the client the client then you not earlier with it I just haven\u0027t read the latest draft yes gotcha so it\u0027s a UH the problem we\u0027re solving here is a subset of that okay and the challenge would be is like we didn\u0027t need most of all of that and so we didn\u0027t see that as being a solution but I want to make sure we also take lessons from that and if it\u0027s possible to just reuse it possible but when I sort of looked at an older thing and when I talked to people at iw about it it seemed like there was an awful lot more stuff in the Raymond I have you seen a recent as of this spring draft of uma - like how old is your volt knowledge of Emma well I didn\u0027t read the doc but uh whose AOL guy George George yeah I got a image of George in my head don\u0027t ask questions about that yeah so he walked through me in detail I\u0027m just a human to you on how it compared okay so I didn\u0027t read the doc but I all right good those that I was schooled in how it worked and how these things compared and contrasted okay that\u0027s that\u0027s good I just wanted to make sure because the the difference is between one and two in terms of the type of stuff that you\u0027re addressing are drastic okay and so okay and you and I can talk more if you have more specific questions after I get a chance to actually read this okay thanks cut the line after Bryan yeah because I have I have more slides yes I wanted to reiterate that comparing this to other graphs that are very similar previously one of the difficulties we had was defining the granularity of the protected resource and you\u0027ve kind of taken the easy way out going with host which is maybe okay but everyone seemed to have a different opinion on how granular that had to be previously and that may well need to be looked at it limits what you can do but sometimes limits are good which like which like wanting to limit or at least do you like limits define it your friend you\u0027re my friend today I\u0027m resentful if you get oh if you get to do something simple where I was that\u0027s it may come up I don\u0027t know it just but it\u0027s it\u0027s a it\u0027s a specifics it\u0027s saying that a resource server audiences is at the host level period and that that may or may not be okay with folks I did actually try to read the draft it reads as though it\u0027s specifically and only for the client credentials grant type is that but then you haven\u0027t talked about it here in the slides yes we I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:07:34",
    "text": "this problem Maps well for two legged solutions because many of the things you\u0027re trying to do are very where the distributed natures come up as two-legged like you know because soon as you have a user involved that you know the flows are radically different than you know what the authorization server I that\u0027s it\u0027s it\u0027s quite a different use case okay so it\u0027s narrowly aimed it at that yes why it\u0027s simple but it\u0027s an important yes yes okay so and yet like things like implicit or just not part of what yeah okay yeah thanks yeah let\u0027s go to the next slide because one way of doing it wasn\u0027t enough we had a different way of doing it so the alternative as opposed to restricting the audience would be to have and the access token essentially that the protected resource is able to look at the access token and and there\u0027s an authentication when the client is calling the protected resource and then the pressure resource as well I got an access token that was for you and was it you that called me so you\u0027re essentially checking to see this access token this client and then this is the client that\u0027s calling me and I know those are the same so we\u0027re you know well this one now the client doesn\u0027t need to manage ever an access token because it\u0027s the same access token for all of the different places but the productive resource needs indicate the client and this maps there\u0027s a another deployment I\u0027m working on UTM which is the UAV traffic management which is the drones flying around and how all the different servers talk to each other and so in this case there\u0027s a whole bunch of different parties that are all talking to each other and the authorization server is the FAA that says are you allowed to operate and that so the access token represents the authorization net to operate and all the different parties are essentially all peers while calling to each other and so you this maps better cuz you don\u0027t have any it doesn\u0027t really make sense I have different access tokens for different parties because it\u0027s all the same resource and by the nature of it you want the client to be able to be authenticating anyway when they call so you know who is calling you it\u0027s not just an authorization you want to know which party\u0027s saying it so you already have that piece and so this Maps better for them sort of an alternative mitigation on replay next slide and so the resource server impersonation really that all the things that solve access token itself by that next slide and then the malicious a/s so at a high level it\u0027s really you don\u0027t want bare tokens you want to have some proof of possession so the authorization server can\u0027t replay the credentials to a different authorization "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:34",
    "text": "server those last slides are way faster than the one slide so I said there was some good support for it so so can we get a sense of where people that would support this working group working on this this problem one comment I mean this sort of encapsulates a number of independent drafts that we have from the draft that Brian and I are working on on mutual TLS which is one of the mitigations and was called out by in the security issues work the resource indicators in some of the other stuff I mean we should while I agree with having an overall document we shouldn\u0027t lose track of actually having generic solutions for the broader issues so if we if we decide to have to move forward with the mutual TLS draft and that fits in with this then we can reference it rather than trying to reinvent the wheel in the draft I wrote I reference mutual TLS I didn\u0027t want to like read spicy these there are probably other components where Johnny I see I personally see the different sort of threat mitigation things as references to other documents rather than and the main focus of this work and I think what you got into the security aspects because that\u0027s obviously a big concern with that sort of the the parties so I think this is this is the type of thing I believe is right that should be focused on right but what I said with threat mitigations pointed back to Brian\u0027s draft etc so so Torsten and I have identified this as a generic issue that we have to solve and have two different mechanisms that we\u0027ve proposed so we should attempt to if we\u0027re going to solve some of these issues we should try and solve it across both oo auth and this as opposed to necessarily coming up with specific mechanisms for this and but it\u0027s also that the item that Justin raised earlier that there may be some overlap with the uma work and I think we should clarify that as well Justin Justin yeah just just one comment so I mean you your proposal underlies what what I said previously so office getting dynamic more than I think more than I make and so on so more less but what what you presented is along the line of the threat analysis we did for the token leakage so and he also came up with more or less the same recommendation so I think we should should somehow align that and and and prevent replicating the work as I said one of the of the recommended account emerges to audience "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:13:34",
    "text": "restrictions that I would like to bring forward I\u0027m not quite yet decided about that okay sure yeah I feel that the the goal wasn\u0027t that I didn\u0027t think I was inventing how to solve these mitigations there was more here\u0027s what we want to do there\u0027s a bunch of threats and here\u0027s how we would mitigate them yep it because I stole some of yours so Tony you had a question right here Tony Tony Tony because you\u0027re my friend even though you I\u0027m not yours I\u0027ll bring you the mic right here you go your temporary friend I think you\u0027re asking whether there was interest in this topic or this document I would have interested in the topic but not necessarily I think with John and the rest there\u0027s other ways to solve this and you know so I wouldn\u0027t necessarily say suggest adopting this document but adopting the idea and looking at all the other things that have been done in this space okay thank you your friend so no we have to discuss this continue that discussion on the mainland yes unfortunately thanks Nick okay next hello Marco taka from ri6 I\u0027m not caught during this draft but I\u0027m presenting on behalf of someone from Spotify and with big sides a colleague of mine next slide okay first and foremost the acknowledgement of course mentioned that this work is highly inspired by another draft and Brian has also reviewed this very document so thanks for that so essentially this document proposed two new calling credentials to be used for authenticating the client to the authorization server either based on Republic am pretty sure key to be used for establishing TLS or D TLS session with the authorization server in the respective a key establishment mod and according to of course the respective specification to authenticate the client in the end what is in scope is a talking request or an introspection request at the authorization server while what is not covering these client credentials are the client binding of resource requests and of course this is also related to other document as to how to specify client credential using assertions and on how to use as 5:09 certificates as credential if you go further Republican mode yes and this document made particular reference on the Clyde one credential per client software per diem which is particularly "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:34",
    "text": "common in constrained environments where this document was initially proposed before considering this working group that makes particular sense cause devices in such use case are pre provision with a symmetric key that can be used in case of dynamic registration these documents also specifies - sorry new registers for new attributes enabling registration for both cases of Fisher key base are a public key based and I think it\u0027s the last light yeah it\u0027s mostly moving the document to this working group firm from ASA sensually okay so anybody anybody has any kind of initial thoughts about this is Justin would it make sense to merge this with the MT LS doc no okay I heard somebody grumble no and I think it was Brian so and Torsten as well apparently and that as well okay fine okay good thank you yeah this is just don\u0027t use the document right now Mike Mike - coming go ahead yeah I have a clarifying question Mike Jones from Microsoft R that Keys represented in discovery document or in the registration document as JW Kay\u0027s or references to janab-u K sets or references to JW k documents are they something else entirely I don\u0027t remember this detail I don\u0027t remember this detail personally okay I would have a problem with that we should use standard representations for keys that this working group work turn toastin just want to explain where I said no regarding Justin\u0027s question to incorporate that stuff I think that\u0027s that\u0027s important work but as we want to move the current and TLS draft forward to ever working a roost call I\u0027m rather reluctant to change the scope that was the reason okay thank you Thanks thank you thank you I\u0027m the Tory belt Allah from open exchange and I thank you for having the opportunity to present some work that we\u0027ve been doing we decided it\u0027s time to present to other people and see whether we can get some feedback and understand where actually I mean if there are other people that would be willing to work on it with us and where would be the appropriate place for doing so so actually we I mean the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:19:37",
    "text": "problem we will starting from is the state of online know that the average user I mean there are better systems than these but if you take the average Internet user today most of them just have a hundred or two hundreds of usernames and passwords which in theory of different but in practice are being used constantly in this creates all sort of security and privacy problems and there are some single sign-on systems that are gaining ground mostly they are I mean run by a few companies and they are private solving moremore websites you see people being able to login with the Google or Facebook or whatever credentials which is fine and very convenient but at the same point that in our opinion this is giving way to too much of fragmentation and lack of interoperability so I mean on some websites you get the list of 15 different sources of credentials you can you have to pick one from them from other websites only give you one of them so you need to have a Google account to access the websites that only accept Google credentials and then a Facebook account to access their websites that only accepts I spoke with an shells and so on so we don\u0027t think this makes sense and so we\u0027ve been thinking whether there\u0027s another way of doing it so that implementers that websites online resources that want to accept single sign-on credentials only implement one system and it works with any identity provider and also users can choose their provider so if they don\u0027t like one particular provider they can get an account from someone else and they are not forced by I mean to use one specific so next time so I mean we\u0027ve we are an image company by the way so we just were wondering why can\u0027t it work like email so why can\u0027t you have a public open and federated infrastructure in which you get your identity your identifier from whatever provider you want and it works on a website and your online source and and you can actually get get or than to choose it to change it if you\u0027re not happy you could even host it yourself and if you\u0027re using a your own domain name exactly like it happens with email you could even port your identifier to a different provider so you keep the identifier and have it managed by someone else and then we think there\u0027s really a long list of advantages in the system like this for example I think I think security is easier because first of all you only need to remember and to secure one set of credentials and also just one place what gets verified and there you can implement all sorts of additional security mechanisms without having each and every website or the internet implemented for authentication or whatever and also since we are Europeans we have to comply with a very strict European law sir and so we\u0027re concerned about managing that the consent by the user on the data to share and ability to update them so to keep track of which information they gave to each website and change it in an easy way not having to retype it each and every time and update it each in each and every "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:37",
    "text": "website separately and so but in the end so it should just work like you do in the real world so in the real world you don\u0027t have to register whenever you need to keep informational you just show your ID you just identify yourself so we started from requirements so first of all we really think that this thing needs to be public and federated public meaning that it must be free and everyone can implement it and and I mean we specifically don\u0027t want these to wind up like instant messaging where you have to have five six seven eight different accounts on different systems to be able to communicate with everyone we wanted to reduce the implementation effort so to make it easy I mean to make it easy for people that already provide identities so that can easily make their systems and their existing identities compatible with this infrastructure and in some way in his for everyone so we this is why we chose to build and in Deauville the DNS so we chose to wet the DNS into the mix and this is also for I mean this is for several reasons but one of them is also the fact that users are a customer to dns-based identifiers to host names or to email addresses actually the email address is often used by people as their username so we think that this would be a natural extension and so identifiers should work within the DNS infrastructure and finally one thing we decided is that we did not want to work with real world identification so this is not really meant to be a system in which you have to prove identity I mean you could build some kind of third-party certification over it so you could address the issue of certifying the identity of the user but in it I mean itself the system is just meant to replace what you get today username and password or by a simpler term so you could have multiple identities you could identify with different identifiers in different contexts and you you actually get to choose how to use this so yeah I will give it to Marcus for the quarter of the dart Thank You Victoria Marcus and I work for the day Nick German domain name registry next slide please so I\u0027m working with Vittorio together on this and we were trying to build this up and the first thing we realize is we needed some things that were missing for instance the issue of issue a discovery we have it already there so the draft of discovery just nonchalantly says no this is not part it\u0027s out of scope so and so we didn\u0027t we didn\u0027t have a way yes no the discovery for Open ID Connect which you\u0027re referencing actually uses the w3c where are they anyway webfinger we\u0027re talking I\u0027m talking about the draft this working group and it says yeah look at it and well then we yes I did mention "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:25:39",
    "text": "that okay we went back to the to the world to the one of the open ID from the open ID financial foundation and it uses webfinger for that absolutely yeah but this the draft of this working group yes doesn\u0027t doesn\u0027t talk about it but we have a problem with webfinger and this is this this has incredible operational challenges if you have to run a web finger at each and every one of the issue of the identifiers that you want to use in the system so if I want to use email addresses or I want to use domain name such as identifiers I would have to have a wet finger for each one of those and that didn\u0027t make much sense so we came up with with an easy solution is to do this in the DNS we use the DNS for for easier discovery and well since we are a DNS company email company when you work at the DNS companies and everything looks like a DNS Fernandez this really is a DNS problem and well we combine that with DNS SEC so that you get authorized source of information and integrity in the answers so there are different ways to do this in the DNS there are very very trivial ways to do is a savvy wreck or not the records command SRP with a nap Wreckers use something like WebDAV does and we what we do this is a kind of d mark approaches very easy txt record that just says ok this is the place you will find your issue and that\u0027s it once you get the issue we bootstrap with the earth discovery and we get the metadata via webfinger but this is very easy because it\u0027s a well known resource of their of a host please you know see you\u0027re sort of looking to reinvent I mean I worked on solving this problem back in 2003 what you\u0027re proposing here isn\u0027t radically different than what dozens of companies since then I\u0027ve tried to do on solving I don\u0027t think that it\u0027s a actually a technical problem it\u0027s a how do you get people to adopt it problem with me you know we a number of us founded the Open ID foundation to drive solving this problem because when we were an ITF we got sent away numerous times and decided we\u0027d go and create our own sandbox and we had reasonable progress in moving it we were a URL based mechanism we realized we needed to go to an email based mechanism but there had already been a little too much momentum in the older mechanism and so there was a reluctance to do that and then facebooking came out and a number other things came out and so the motivation for a number of relying parties to get a solution for how did it you know solving their problem on how did you enable people to easily log in you know the problem went away for those people and so today what motivates anybody to adopt the system so that\u0027s "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:39",
    "text": "one point the other point is you know I humor I always laugh whenever someone uses the word off in a discussion around identity because it\u0027s like which off off then or I\u0027ll see my understanding that this working group is an authorization working group as opposed to an authentication and my as this looks like this is much more of an authentication oriented solution but I\u0027m happy to let you continue on with your story here thank you that no absolutely yeah you put it you are putting the the finger in the in the wound it\u0027s absolutely yeah it is it\u0027s a challenge to try to convince somebody else to use this discovery mechanism and it will be a challenge to try to you convince the users to use this system of single sign-on but nevertheless we think it has advantages towards the situation that it\u0027s out there as Vittorio has just said there is a fragmentation we observe a fragmentation and we observe and a problem of the identity of the users being owned by some companies and not being able to move easily their digital identity from company a to Company B so we really believe in the system that will even allow for self hosting your identity hold on I have more slides just let me talk yeah yeah we don\u0027t have too much time right now it\u0027s just one more slide except coming up coming up when one slide back just wanted to take a look at the other points okay so we are using we are we are separating we are separating concerns we are separating the concern of the AES from the protective resources they yes is there the identity provider the resource is the identity of the user we are using distributed claims for opera to do this but you are not very interested in open ID so I will skip this we are at the adding additional mechanisms to the open ad standard to be able to complain to be complainant with European general data protection regulation like being able for the relying parties to communicate to reasons why they would like to access to access some of the claims of the user for the user to be able to make an informed consent about allowing or not allowing access to this data next slide and well what we have at the moment is this joint project between our companies we have a prototype of the system up and running and we are presenting it to different parties trying to socialize the ideas we have TLD registers that are interested in this we have domain name registers that host is domains and and are interested to participate on this we have interest of telcos and I a space to be able to deliver I am identities to their users we have two drafts next slide presenting one the discovery mechanism second the overall architecture of the system and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:41",
    "text": "this is exactly what we would like so so so feedback from the people why this is a good idea or why this is a bad idea review and maybe some guidance where to deal with this is the idea of the proper venue no let us alone go to the open ID foundation or whatever so please all right first of all thank you for for the presentation second my meeting this is Justin by the way its second my main question to you is what makes you think this will decrease fragmentation instead of adding one more fragment to the pile we beyond just hope that everybody will see that your brilliant we we really believe that this is a solution that could unify good but so could webfinger if everybody ran webfinger or open Yolo or or you know whatever stuff dick invented for you know open ID - there\u0027s mobile connects there\u0027s a lot of great things that could unify it if people did this and this is not the first DNS based ones which I\u0027m sure you know that if you\u0027ve done your research so why this one that one no I that was a question is there not an answer the answer is we think that this is a superior solution to the situation that we have at the moment and good luck ok that\u0027s a chimera line all right so when we were doing webfinger we also considered seriously considered solution and there were a bunch of constraints that didn\u0027t allow us to actually use DNA so you probably want to look at it the other one is that for the privacy notices and things like that open ID connect already has this facility to do that third one like somebody else has pointed out this is authorization kind of working group maybe I don\u0027t know if I\u0027m entirely unsure but that if there is appetite there but looks like it\u0027s a better suit for the OpenID connect working group just I love just here one second ago so a I cut the line here and we the time we overtime here but they did you already cut that I know huh no no yes okay yes I love to hear about the DNS challenges and problems you you found we have it up and running but they really would like to talk to you afterwards about this thank you very much all right a few wants on so the there is there certain "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:41",
    "text": "overlaps with the work in open ID Federation work that\u0027s been going on in in other in the open ID community but also in the or in a space and one of the things that you are gonna run into this is not a question of getting it to work and it\u0027s obviously you can do that but the problem when you sort of scale out scale stuff like this up there are trust issues and the and the the you you cannot use the DNS to establish trust because DLS and DNS SEC is based on a single root hierarchy which does not map to to practical Federation where you actually want to have overlapping circles of trust a much more control over where you get your keys from how you trust those keys and how you exchange them so actually DNS is actually a poor model for you to build a trust infrastructure on this is not just about exactly if you\u0027re a dinner leonesse radish or then you\u0027re you think this is great but and this is not a crime in this is not a criticism we\u0027ve had similar thoughts in salmon space and decided not to do to do the same do do it because of because of those reasons I\u0027ve heard it I\u0027m not I don\u0027t know whether you\u0027ve thought of Federation and Trust establishments as part of your problem space it may be that you\u0027ve just thought about discovery or I\u0027m saying that discovery is only the sort of the tip of the iceberg Branko and water I\u0027m gonna make it nice and quick and just ask the question I think was implied in that question a couple of ago who has signed on and said we\u0027ll do this outside this room because that\u0027s the real question have you got the big providers on board we\u0027re trying to do though yeah okay that\u0027s okay thank you much thank you one last thing in case someone is interested I would suggest to have a few drinks or one after the plenary at seven forty seven forty so at the registration desk in case you guys we should be not meet that registration desk because everyone would come out on you okay as everyone know but it is the wrappers across the street okay I don\u0027t know it you know like I have to work which which one Wikipedia reference poster uh dementia PDA okay do you guys know "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:49",
    "text": "I went across the yeah so apparently I\u0027m the only one who doesn\u0027t know that please okay thanks everyone you "
  }
]