[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "all right get started in just a minute here i just want to pull up the no uh notepad okay chaplain one thing i didn't do chris was copy the agenda in it if you wanted to uh put that up i don't know we can do that after the status too yeah yeah um yeah i can also flip it up i think so i think i'm ready let's let's see chat room all right so good morning everyone this is the lsr working group we've got a two-hour session i think yeah here's our note well you've been seeing all week long hopefully basically says that by participating you agree to follow all the process and policies and everything else there on that slide um oh yeah let me go back so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "also the masking please wear your mask unless you're talking at the mic um [Music] or consuming water i guess because you're tired vocal cords from talking all week i don't think that there's oh yeah and when you if you're going to go to the mic please oh well in any case please sign into the on-site tool um that's what's going it's you can find it on the agenda it's one of the buttons to the right and that will uh record your presence instead of doing the old signing the blue sheet thing and in that tool you can select the hand icon if you want to go into the queue so that way we can manage the remote and local queue fairly uh i think that that is all the administrivia um ac do you want to do the slides the status now yes uh next slide i'm just well while i'm doing all of this status i'm just going to point out the salient uh drafts because i want to leave as much time for the presentations and discussions next slide here this is this is uh this is uh there's been a development here rfc 9127 has uh will soon go off 48 so once you know once that's published it'll unblock the ospf and isis yang models and once we do that i think in the next months we're working on uh resurrecting interest in the follow-on the you know the yang models based on this"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "i know a lot of us that were working on yang models weren't interested in doing anything as long as we were waiting for this next slide okay this is this this one's still waiting on the flex algo we'll cover that later next slide these are the giraffes completed last call we really need the flex algo done because not only is there references to it in a lot of the sr drafts there's also a lot of our fault you'll see that today a lot of the working group documents that we have are based on this so this is really a foundational work that we need to get to the isg and published next slide next slide uh next slide uh this this extensions for srv6 this is ready i've reviewed it once they incorporated my comments we're going uh if there's an i think uh at least i'm pretty sure i think i've heard i've heard it second party but i've heard huawei has implementations of this draft so we're going to do a last call shortly after the ietf114 oh and there's also uh references in drafts and other working groups to this draft next slide uh next slide oh no stay stay here oh all right uh dynamic flooding for dense graphs the working group did a lot of work on this it's i i say implementations proceeding this is kind of slowed down and there's been a lot for one reason or another the implementations there's one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "implementation of it we talked about the offers and we're thinking of targeting experimental and publishing it now a lot of drafts in lsr and this is this phenomenon is not unique to the lsr working group but a lot of drafts in ls and lsr nobody's really interested in them but the offers this was this was one of those exceptions we had a lot of interest across the whole working group for the dynamic flooding and i think i think it's a real priority at this time people can disagree with me on the list if they want but next slide fast flooding is another one where we add interest across the working group i'm going to be uh talking to the or chris and i'll be talking to the offers and seeing when they feel that rich ready for a working group last call i know that bruno just did another very incremental update and um i will uh uh it would be good if people would look at that again next slide i believe those were the only ones i really wanted to talk about in the status next slide next slide okay we're targeting interim around september 7th that drafts don't make the for drafts that didn't make the agenda now one thing about this we have these drafts now and i've seen some discussion on some of these drafts and it looks like some of these rafts may be uh unnecessary so we're not going to have presentations uh we're going to try and at least read these drafts or dra or presentations on drafts that are definitely uh unnecessary anyway but that's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "time we're uh targeting okay i'm done all right thanks ac um let me see if i can share no chairs all the spots oh i gotta close the presentation i think there we go um so uh just uh putting the agenda up here in case anyone wanted to bash it um we just went through one uh number two is cancelled and we have uh we're gonna push to get all the way through nine in the allotted time uh but we wanted to leave time for discussion so everything else is dependent we might be able to get to these if we have time but if not this is what ac was talking about these plus anything new like oh yeah look at that was it up was it ever up no okay yeah it's well"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "it's funny because i can see it you can see them here we go no i screwed up user error so right so here's the agenda and then we're gonna get to nine and then anything after if we have time otherwise those move to the interim and with that let's uh let's move to the oslo chris i actually wanted to ask a question yes go ahead les so if i can say this in a friendly way i think um we haven't progressed any of the documents that have gone through last call in quite a while and um i'm just wondering if there's you know we can get some update on that if there's some way to get additional resources put on that are you speaking of things that have again gone to the iesg or things that are in working group last call i'm really speaking of things that are in the ads hands uh sorry john john that's the mic so that's why i was asking nope nope no offense taken less it's a perfectly valid question um so i've communicated this to the chairs already uh but uh all the authors deserve some uh you know communication too my my q is pretty severely backlogged i'm have taken several steps to let me get through it faster it will take a while for those to actually show up on your dashboards and in terms of results uh i'm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:02",
    "text": "not generally a person that likes making excuses i like showing results instead but it will take a while for the results to actually start appearing um in terms of what you can do to help if i think of anything i will surely let you know um i wish i had something more to tell you but that's what i got i'm i'm you know i'm all ears if if uh you know you've got ideas uh i don't know if we want to take up agenda time on that or not i leave that to chris no here here's a here's a real quick quick one from me speaking as working with chair i think that a timely review would be that is less extensive would be preferred to one like four months out that's my uh or four to six months out and i believe you know it's already been through the working group we have the people in this working group who have implemented these protocols uh maybe we need to if like i know i know at least some of the drafts we don't get everybody to review them but that's that's just my opinion uh that is fair um one of the things that i try to focus on when i'm doing a review is hitting things that i'm fairly sure that will you know are going to trigger other iesg members anyway so i'd rather they trigger me than trigger you know a disgust from somebody else down the line but yes um quick and timely and then getting through the discussions might be preferable to waiting forever um i hear you les are you happy with that yeah yeah i mean it's a friendly question but i think i think and i have a lot of respect for john and for how much work it takes to be an ad but somehow i think we we need to make some progress"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "okay well les you're on the mic still and i think you're presenting now so let me get rid of my screen and then click the little icon next to you that's interesting do you get to pick apparently yeah so pick asla or that that works yup okay so this is an update on the two bis drafts for asla for iss and ospf here's the bit of history about a year ago there was uh some discussion on the list that there was some confusion uh regarding uh the specification of how zero length uh abm advertisements were used there's a pointer to the thread the outcome of that discussion was an errata for each of the rfcs in may john reviewed the errata and felt that it would be more appropriate to pursue this as abyss rfc so we published uh the best drafts in june we got some additional comments from bruno and shraddha beyond what had been written in the errata we've incorporated those this is not a complete set of diffs this is just a quick summary of the significant changes we specified we clarified that for the srte application that this is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "data point independent it applies to srm pls and srv6 that was input from shrada we clarified the use of the zero length abms the l bit these are essentially things that came out of the original errata and we also clarified that would we have legacy routers in the network who are only going to be using legacy advertisements that we must not only continue to advertise legacy but we must not advertise asla because the legacy routers will not be looking at those there was another request from shraddha so next steps there's no substantive changes here there's only clarifications so i would really like to fast track this and i haven't discussed this with the working group chairs but this is the plan that i have in mind i'd like to see these both bits drafts immediately adopted i'd like to get last call within one ietf cycle by the next meeting and i know john has graciously volunteered to try to speed the isg review by constraining it just to the changes not to reviewing the entire contents of the original rfcs and john i'll certainly take you up on that i hope we can do that and that's it okay um oh goodness i was gonna ask the room a question but now i need to do this differently uh i'm gonna do a raise hands thing to see"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "if anybody objects to going immediately the adoption call in this if i can find thank you chair this is why you do the thing okay show of hands there we go any objection to immediate adoption all right so there we have a go ahead and click so raising raising hand means you object or you don't object raising hands means you object so don't raise your hand and we'll go to immediate adoption it will also yeah i don't it seemed to have ended on me well there was 20 oh that it says there's 21 participants and 21 didn't raise their hand i don't know why but it's 21 and as soon as it hit the mat the number it just stopped for the tool i guess that's a consensus yeah if any i'll give a few uh just another moment here if anybody wants to get in the queue if they object yeah i'm not getting in the queue to object i'm just getting in the queue to say i mean you you you could do the show of hands thing again but i think you also have um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "discretion as chairs to just do this if you yeah yeah yeah i i was just getting the feel for the um i don't i don't have i don't think that we're going to see any objections okay all right thank you les i think that we will do that then unless we hear something in the back channel where somebody anonymously didn't want to talk who knows i can't imagine why all right so next up is chung uh using isis multi topology okay so who's going first actually actually i thought we they had one slot for the two uh the two vtn uh drafts they did but they have they have two presenters okay you have uh you have a control so pick the presentation you're presenting and run uh yeah i will try to control the slides can you help me to control the slice yeah so when i you should see a list of slides available yeah on your screen yeah pic pick your presentation and then you'll have control okay there we go okay thank you uh hello everyone this presentation about using ssmt multi-topology for second"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "routing with vtn yeah vt is a virtual analytic network with the required topology and results characteristics and it could be used only to meet the requirements of one or a group of weekend plus services you know in a contest network slicing this concept is similar to the network resource partition defined in in this draft uh furthermore uh the results were said uh replace different sites of resources allocated on network segments for uh packet processing and uh so with srbs data plane sig can be used to replace the both topology instructions and the network and the network resources allocated by network loads to a vtm so this document describes the mechanisms of applying much topology to build sr based regions and it is applicable to networks where the required number of vtn is small uh isis multi topology routing is used to create a dependent topology in my network so empty-based trvas are introduced to carry topology specific link state information this provides the capability of specific specifying the customized attributes of each topology when each type of reaching is associated with the dependent network topology uh mit id uh multiple id could be used as a identifier of vtn control planes so i'm um empty routing can be used with isr-based display you want to perform a construct-based path computation for each beating on the network controller of the increased nodes the network resource attributes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "and other attributes associated with utility can be a little bit highest for multi topology network uh topology specific as a mpsc osr v6 location can be advertised based on assets eisen as a basic intentions uh specific link binaries advertised all four different ratings other idt attributes may also be advertised in topology specific manner since this document was adopted last year several updates have been made for the comments received we clarified that both uh results aware say that normal state can be used with this mechanism to build srbs retains and then we also publish the text about the forwarding plane's operations in the we describe the scalability considerations and the target network scenarios and also um and ethereum chain has also been made um implementations uh show that this mechanism works well and the content of the document looks stable so we think that it is ready for working group nascar when the more reviews and comments are well comes as usual so i'm done thank you all right we have two people in the queue last year up first so um there was a discussion when this draft was was up for working group adoption um that it didn't have really have any significant content uh but we adopted it anyways but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "the the only way that this the content of this draft is meaningful is if the working group actually takes on the work of supporting vtn or vpn plus whatever name you want to give it and we have not done that yet so at a minimum this draft should not progress until the working group takes on the vtn actual vtn extensions and decides to move that forward which we may or may not do so i strongly object to moving this to last call okay ac uh yes ac linum cisco systems i think that uh why would we take this to working group glass call when the drafts it's depended on because this is kind of an after the fact the resource aware sids and the tease draft aren't uh in working group last call i mean i don't know why we jump this up just because it's a very simple draft when those aren't uh when when when those things aren't uh aren't done well there's nefarious reasons to do that kind of a thing but i think we could just wait right yeah that's two people have now said that we'll take this we'll take this discussion to the list but i i don't see i don't see a reason you know it's kind of like doing uh uh bg pls extensions before the base specification is done can you hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "yep yeah yeah i just like to say that uh firstly this is a informational document and uh as we follow the suggestions after the adoption we have made the resource awareness is optional for this document so that we can allow both resource versus and normalcy's to to be used within this mechanism to build the srbs vtns so it does not rely or depend on the resource of our segment draft actually and what i want to say that i just want to ask maybe ac to help clarify which document we need to wait for before this one i i mean i'm i'm not i mean i read the document again but what about the work in ts to define what a btn is is that done is that is that is that on the editor queue or where is that i mean on the i on the adq or where is the vtn the whole vtn concept where is that document yeah that is in the vpn class framework and we have planned to make that one go to last call uh maybe after this item meeting okay yeah when that goes so call come back okay so these two need to move forward together with me yes we do we don't want to produce work in this working group that refers to work that isn't done you know that's based on something that isn't done somewhere else right i mean it's just pretty natural to progress things in the correct order okay it's not a i don't think that anybody's saying that this wouldn't progress normally as long as everything goes the way it should but you know let's do things in the right order okay okay understand uh okay did you want to talk or are you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "yeah uh you can address a quick comment or rather a suggestion to the authors there isn't anything which changes igp uh mechanism or protocol operations in the draft it's only informational there is a similar draft in spring which covers i would say about 50 to 60 percent of the similar content my suggestion to the authors is why don't you just move everything from this draft into the spring draft and then this draft is not required anymore uh okay the draft which is adopted in spring uh you know uh you can just roll everything from here into that uh i'm not sure that was uh related to igp extension or it's just a letter it's an architect it's an architecture it's more architecture description which is similar to this there is just architecture and description just informational uh you can just roll the sections in into that and i guess but i mean i'll leave it to the chairs as well but just a second yeah i mean i mean for the igp extensions they we really don't want to put all those springs i mean we've kept them here or the other sr stuff i don't think we want to do that anyway we can take that so we have the next room we have two presentations this first one doesn't have any uh extensions in it right so i guess that's something it should at least be looked at to see if it makes sense right i guess it doesn't have to mention yeah this one may i i guess that's i guess i'd be all right with that true uh gets a wider spread then too since this is really about how to do things right it's just informational okay well let's let's there's only six minutes left for the other one why don't we do that one is that going to be"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "g is that are you presenting that oh yes i'm the next one we've got some odd icons the same thing is um i see i have to actually cancel the countdown timer to get access to the okay all right you should have uh a list of presentations in front of you okay okay can i see this slide yes okay so this is a update about the draft i'm using the flash algo for the segment routing based uh vtn i'm presenting on behalf of the co-authors here first uh about the background i think this is similar to the previous one this document is uh describes a mechanism of applying the flex algo to build srvtns okay the bad result in this draft is uh when the hvt is associated with an independent flash algo the flash algo id can be reused as a identifier of the vt in the control plane and we can use the flex algo to describe the topology constraints of the vtn it can be applied to either the default topology or it can be applied to a multi topology and with the same routine flash algo extensions uh algorithm specific srcs can be advertised based on the rfc 8667 and as a draft for the iss srv6 extensions here we make some minor extensions to use flash algo together with l2 bundle"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:02",
    "text": "to advertise the t attributes associated with different obtains and we have the details in the following slides so a clarifying question or you're just getting in early to talk oh there you are joel halpern this is related to a question i asked in six man and have asked in other contexts but it's very important here this sorry i realized joel halpern from erickson the there are two different notions that get mixed up and i hope we can clarify which one this is talking about there vtn in general is a concept i don't care there's flex algo which gives you a topology and a forwarding path and that's flex algo and then there has been a discussion of what is in tease called nrp network resource partition we were very careful and explicit in the teas work to say this does not create a separate topology you you can have multiple nrps within the same topology so that things will scale because we don't want to blow up the number of topologies because lots of topologies has all sorts of cost this seems to say that if the vtm needs different resources then that will be a separate topology and that would be painful we need to be able to say this is the resource behavior a resource behavior b resource behavior c within the shared common topology one i'm unclear from these slides and i did not have time to review the draft as to whether that is supported by this yeah"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "joe maybe you can check this uh slice at the bottom we say that this mechanism is applicable to networks which requires a small number of vtns so that even if each vt is associated with a separate topology of las argo the scalability will be acceptable so this can with this mechanism we can make some simplification to the control plane and the data plane so that we can reuse something existed already so this is the purpose of this draft and i think that the draft also it describes the scalability uh itself so maybe you can also check the content of the draft hope i can i have clarified this okay i will continue with this so for the to advertise the t attributes of each median alto bundle is extended a bit uh because outer bundle can be used as a bundle of the layer 2 physical or virtual membranes and here each of the member link can be associated with a separate region and here we define a new flag called exclusive flag and to indicate whether these member links can be used for sharing load balancing or the age member link is used exclusively for the associated media and for the correlation between a flash ago and the layer to member links this is based on the extended i mean group or color basically each length member link are configured with a unique color which is used as an include rule in the corresponding fad and admin group of the parent list reading is set to the union of all the colors of its little two member links with this mechanism we can ensure that uh each flash algo is associated with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "the parent layer link and the forwarding plane the traffic will be forwarded using the corresponding neutral member link and and the t attributes of the limit remembering advertised based on the existing rfc 8668 now here are the updates in the recent revisions basically we solve the comments received both online and offline we also clarify the role of the flag in the outer bundle tlv let us clarify the correlation mechanism between the flux algo and the lymph membranes then there are some of the improvement under in the descriptions about the forwarding plane behaviors based on the algorithm's specific prefixes and adjacencies which are associated with the vtn and some auditory changes are most made in these revisions for the next steps we think the mechanism and the content has been stable and authors would like to ask for working group adoption of this document thank you comments uh peter you're in the cube you're up to pick up china so i found the solution that you are proposing rather hacky by trying to mess up with the affinities of the l2 members and then being a union of the l3 member and all that stuff you are doing this for a very very specific case where you have l2 bundle members this is not a generic solution i think and i believe there are other and better solutions have to solve this yeah take that could i make that comment before i think uh this is to minimize the changes to the protocols"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "and we reuse what we already have it's on the combination i'm not just the one a minor extension of the flag if you have other proposals maybe you can also suggest them on the list or offline welcome so um i'm i'm going to take basically uh joel's point earlier along with peter's now uh and just i'm just wondering out loud as a working group member if you know just we don't necessarily have to have multiple solutions to something if we come up with a really good solution that covers all the cases so obviously other people are thinking about this too outside the context of this presentation and this solution um you know let's let's not create bespoke solutions if we have a a nice good one that covers all the cases so i think going forward we need to keep our eye on that yeah i agree maybe maybe one solution will be more scalable but this two solution has their own applicabilities such as like uh even if we have defined the multi topology we still have the flat circle defined to provide some similarity similar functionality that is uh why we propose two solutions one based on mta one based on flash up because both are adopted mechanisms in the working group some people may use either one of them based on their choice um okay ac yeah i got a quick one gee i think that's a circular circular argument i hope you know what that is i'm saying we have to because"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "we want to have two and let people use it i think i think what you're the reason you you flex algorithm is because it's less data plane resource and that should say that because certainly you wouldn't want this hacky solution with flex algo if you could use mt i mean mt is just so much simpler so i think you need to justify why you'd even consider flex cell goal but after you've answered uh joel's question that would be the a second level question yeah i think there are two separate questions the journals one i have uh clarified maybe i can clarify this further in the middle east yeah for this one i just just give a answer why flash argo and both flashover and and t vista solution are proposed they have different uh slightly different categories testis right but we can't have a further discussion on the list okay thanks let's uh move to the next presentation uh tony thank you tony lee sorry sorry multiple yeah i know i don't have the agenda you can't see it cancel tony there we go all right tony you should see a list to select from there there we go all right good morning uh let's see this is a work in progress discussion um this was formerly called multi-instance tlds we've changed the name to be called multi-part tlds this has been sitting on the back burner"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "for far too long i apologize a lot of that's my fault trying to get this going now if people would like to participate please do so um what problem are we trying to solve um there are many cases where we did not specify how to deal with the case where you filled up the tlv you got 255 bytes of data and subsequent work has caused some of these to fill up and overflow and some of the specs do not describe what to do when you run out of space so we tried to write some normative text the goal here is to um write something that says okay if you're going to run out of space insert multiple parts of the tlv i.e three thing two or more things that have the same tlv code point and you treat that as a concatenated contents um we need to have this solution for all the old tlv's that have not specified things we want to have a default in place so that if somebody forgets there is a backstop we are not trying to override solutions for tlds that already have said something explicit um pretty straightforward just use multiple parts um if you have something inside the tlv that specifies the contents and what we're calling a key you should replicate that key in each part okay for example type 22 tlvs you've got a seven octets of system id and pseudonode number"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "and there's a metric and do you replicate that or not that's discussed to be discussed so you need to figure out what the key is and we need to agree on what that key is so all implementations concur but we are trying not to be normative about discussing the key um the problem with being normative about talking about that is that then we become a catalog of every tlv and we don't want to do that excuse me so um we're going to add more examples trying to make sure everybody agrees um let's see and the other thing we were discussing is adding a router capability uh to discuss to to agree to using this um not everybody's on board with this um but we are discussing it so in discussions welcome please feel free to chime in we need light not heat thank you any questions go ahead chris cool uh actually go ahead katan a question about the capability thing uh so is it was this and i asked this on the main list as well uh was this intended more as an informational or to trigger some actions on the router um so the intent here was there's a concern that doing multi-part tlvs could cause some legacy implementations indigestion what happens if you see two tlv22s and you're not quite ready for it if your code doesn't do that you could do lots of different things in the extreme situation you could crash you could only retain the first part you could"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "only retain the second part the semantics are very very weird and so the proposal was have a capability so that you just don't advertise multiple parts until you see everyone advertising this capability so my understanding is that there are already implementations deployed which do multipart so is this something that we have seen or has been reported there are implementations that do multi-part there are implementations that don't do multi-part this is known this is not an at issue no i mean has have the problems been so understand for as an operator for an operator to know the capability of the routers and use that information it's useful but i think it'll be it's a may be problematic uh to have the router change behavior based on this i'm introducing it at this stage well this is why we were discussing this okay uh so i was sort of curious i i think you spoke to this earlier but since we we have you you said you don't want to be a catalog but we also have all the tlbs so far defined you know have we gone through and and said well this this is you know this is a tlb that's obviously a multi-part they didn't talk about it um i mean would it especially with the capability thing i kind of like it feels like if you put the capability thing and you really want to go back through all the old tlbs and say here are the keys you know or this doesn't need a key or you know or something like that well again we're trying not to be a catalog because then somebody asks why didn't you list this one"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "and you know we'd rather have people apply intelligence the capability should not make a difference as to the behavior um it should just be a compa a trigger for being able to advertise multi-part tlvs just to ensure that everything in the domain is ready or in the area is ready to hear multi-part go ahead les i think to say at this point about the capability is you know there are multiple uh opinions on this even among uh the authors and the authors are going to be meeting and discussing this i think we should wait until the next version of the draft is out if the capability is still there uh we will also you know be addressing you know some of the uh net you know concerns about how to use this then we can have a more meaningful discussion i'd really suggest tabling this discussion uh for a bit indeed we're trying to make everybody happy all at the same time and if that's possible we will do the best we can um and if folks have preferences is that what they would like to see in the draft please let us know easy so i'll reiterate my comment and list if you in your discussions you decide that you won't advertise if not everybody advertises the capability won't advertise the multi-part you have to specify what you do with this additional information if you just don't advertise it or how you choose there has to be some statement there my thinking is you just don't advertise it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:04",
    "text": "done okay uh so just a quick follow up on that uh uh how does uh how does uh how do routers decide which information not to advertise right and what if router a in implementation a decides to advertise tlb let's say 10 and the other router decides to order tlu-12 right then i mean probably nothing will work a lot of stuff will get broken so even even even amongst routers which uh do multi-part right uh they would have normally got everything but yeah right well the the thing to do is to advertise the new the old legacy information because that's what's been there forever and then the new stuff that's causing you to overflow into a second part that probably should not get advertised okay so i mean a very quick follow-up so now we would then again just as the key we would get down to uh cataloging and saying which is old and what is new right uh we start going by that down that path again and i'm trying to finesse this by adding language that says that without being normative about every single tlv type okay yeah i think we can discuss further uh on the list thanks uh thanks for taking this work up thank you sure hi looks like this solution is not a backward compatible right it's backward compatible it's not forward compatible multi-part tlvs are not fully available for example if we have uh you have a prv is bigger than 255 right so you you have multiple parts but uh if we have older router and then that will not recognize that one right"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "exactly why the capability yeah so that one that means that we have new things and then the old router cannot support it and then we have some problems so which is why we have the capability so all routers can stand up and say we're new we're ready please send us new data i think maybe it's better to have a solution and then we have new scenes multiple paths also for the older routers they don't have this capability maybe just the law and then we can have a buyer's problem all routers will not just ignore okay they will take and see multi-parts and possibly do many bad things including crashing so we kind of know because this new scene all the other way don't know these things so how how the old router process this new things right we don't want to advertise the new things until we know all the routers in the area are capable that's the point of having the capability yeah no i know that's a one solution i think maybe normally the solution is that we have new things the old router you don't know this thing and just ignore and then there's a everyone happy right um that would be nice but we can't we don't have a good mechanism for causing old routers to ignore multi parts okay yeah okay we're out of time yeah maybe i can think about that thank you is it really quick discussing things with a bunch of engineers we can't stop following the logic but this is there's a discussion that needs to be had here let's wait until the next version of the draft and hopefully if capability is still there we'll have more content to address all of these points yeah i mean i i hear you but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "that's kind of exclusionary right i mean we could also have that discussion on the mailing list with people that aren't authors so but absolutely well we're out of agenda time though so yep like i do take your point there uh okay so let's move on to the next thanks tony now it's tony p well fool me once no fool you twice stop only behind me uh oh yeah yeah good good hang on [Music] it's all right this is the distributed uh flooding yeah sure i think this works no it won't never mind how could that possibly work i didn't put anything in my computer nothing works yeah never mind yeah technology we know all about it hey so i'm wearing my presentation t-shirt to generate moire you know patterns uh uh talking quickly about the stuff uh that we were running for a while which is the kind of you know yet another flavor can people here in the back all right now in rockstar mode good so this has been going on for a while you can see there's another you know uh flavor of this flood reduction stuff it does a little bit more um the shrut on it white and me please flip on i joined because i know i work on the draft now for a little bit um influence it next one please okay so history and what is it the next steps next one please so the history for a few so the whole idea is basically uh based on work that's been done before and money you know like published rfcs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "the five series uh the variant of that is actually already as well implemented you know and we have it well debugged and running forward with it in rift uh so in a sense you know it's nothing earth shattering here we just took it forward uh so new modified algorithm basically based on the mana principle um we don't do not need any kind of signaling you know or protocol extensions really um it does not require all the nodes in the area to support it so you can just basically drop notes that do that and arbitrarily mix them with the old stuff um why it's important to have and you know drafting rfcs because if you drop people doing that they all have to do the same thing right it's kind of a distributed hashing table everybody has has to run the same algorithm completely distributed nothing centralized again no signaling right no indication that stuff is even running so the staff is kind of a further development of open fabric which was the stuff that came out of linkedin and has been actually implemented in fr but that used kind of ling local flooding it was early version we kind of you know tuned that stuff further and we do also something uh above which is not only flood reduction but also kind of distribution of the flood load across the topology and not only just following a single tree or two trees um so this fr has this early implementation and now there's an implementation but an unnamed obvious vendor right um and uh we tested it works well i mean it's not deployed yet but you know we're pretty confident we have numbers and so on next one please seven minutes okay so i'll go in one ugly picture um uh a bunch of cars i hope you can follow me so at the very bottom is the originator of the lsp right so somebody originates it and obviously the first hop you have to flood it to everyone there's nothing to be done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "and then in the middle uh if you read it on the left a transmitting neighbor this is the note that sends you the lsp right and the black guy the f is the receiver so i'm at f but it's very important that the transmitting neighbor is kind of important here right so the f receiving this lsps needs first shortest path tree from the originator to transmitter so those are the green links right so you have to compute that from the view of the transmitting neighbor and then you compute basically uh two things and some colors something has been cut off so you compute this yellow front which are all the intermediate immediate neighbors of the transmitting neighbor right so that kind of gives you like the one hope thing and from there on right and you uh there is a lot of optimization i'm a meeting you know like you can kick out all these guys that are on the shortest path through the originator because you know that that's all the propagation front and then you compute the two hop neighbors the thl so from this point of view of this first hop neighbors you take the next after those right so this is impressive basically his view of the propagation front and you're just somewhere in it right he propagates through its intermediate neighbors into two hop neighbors and you somewhere in here and you have to know whether you are one of these guys that is responsible to cover the two hop neighbors right so so the logic is until you make this mental step that you're really computing on behalf the guy transmitting towards you you'll not understand the moment you make this mental leap it becomes easy right you're one of the guys in the middle one hop away from him and you have to make decision whether you cover the two hop for him or you don't right and basically the algorithm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "reduces bunch of people out in a distributed fashion if you're one of those you have to retransmit then if you're not you just shut up because you know that other people already covered the two hop neighbors all right and the rest is just mechanics and there's a lot of optimization like if you know that the two hope neighbor is actually only one hop away from the originator can cut it out and so on and so on but that is pretty much the whole thing so for people who are less visual oriented you know and can follow my you know da vinci quality picture you know early da vinci next one i give you uh the stuff you know for the algorithmic thing so you co you assume all metrics run on the graph overload is of course ignored because your flat on overload then you build the shortest path tree from the origin or to the transmitting node right and then you build the rnl d agents this one hop into hop from the view of transmitting the airports towards you okay then you take this one hop away from the transmitting neighbor list on which you are and you order it based on system id everybody does that and here comes the delicate trick that you didn't see in the picture to load balance who propagates you also use the lsp id so now depending on the lsp id that is being flooded different people are picked from the first hop to propagate to the second hop all right that is subtle this year i completely admit but that basically gives you a flat balancing across the graph so it's not like a single tree where everything goes you know through it is depending on which lsps are flooded they will pick up kind of different trees you can imagine it's a simplified picture but it but it's sufficient"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "so you reduce the volume by what we find is about 70 percent but not by choking on you know a bunch of links the whole flooding but basically balancing us across the whole graph um and for people who say well this is like way too much computation under stable topology uh you know you compute only on demand right these things depending from whom you see the lsps which lsps you see and you can cache all these results stable because they only depend on the topology and on the originator on the lsp id right no sequence number nothing so once you kind of cache these things out stuff doesn't need any computation and um the experience from the implementation is actually the load to compute those things directly relative in your school okay well yeah i mean i had my concern so read the draft there's a lot of consideration there you know the lsp id and so on and so on right so you don't do it per lsp id you do it on some hashing functions the very you know you you been bucket those guys and so on but that's you know rita draft contribute have an opinion i mean i don't want to swap you you know swamp you with this stuff next one so what happens if the whole thing partitions right like things are great when things are great when something breaks and somebody forgets to send something so the way we fix it is that we keep the list of whom did we omit doing all these optimizations right and we run some small timers and don't forget psnp so you know it's very dense package you can describe a couple of these lsps just by their signature and basically periodically so if these guys go to stuff they will all deter some other way they may possibly tell you oh you know uh do you have this thing and you already have it right so you add kids a lot of this stuff cancels out already but if these guys didn't update you yet that they have it you basically bucket those things and you throw it at them and go like here's the version if they have it nothing happens you get ack minimal or otherwise they will request it and repair the graph right so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:01",
    "text": "things go pear shaped apple apple-shaped whatever uh you will have some small hiccup right until the timer catches up and kind of uh you know puts the stuff through what is not really the the mean the minimal graft that you computed and then hopefully you know the whole thing settles again and and and chucks happily um and this does not change any of this psnp you know sent or um received procedures right you don't need to we operate just on the standard psnp stuff we just play this little trick that we only send them or you know where we know we didn't send stuff to make sure that the guy has it in case he didn't set us yet the psnp or csnps or whatever next one ah oh yeah i'm also this is the last one next one i'm still five minutes man what will i do sing a song i don't know yeah you don't want those just oh thanks yeah so i won't sing the song um nobody got properly scared when i said that but it's okay so uh right please look at the stuff um embarrassingly simple um osp version would be valuable you know fairly obvious i mean all the same mechanism and schwarz jumped to shark a little bit here put the work group adoption on it but um yeah you know stuff's straightforward if you think through it uh took us after a couple of round optimization i influenced the draft not another another but the stuff is largely in place it's implemented it kind of works and important to say this works for arbitrary topologies obviously this is not any you know club optimization or anything like that yeah i mean open for comments i'm kind of done this i like this version uh in order to order a magnitude better than the original version i like this version that it does and and it is close to the you know i mean it's it's different but it has a lot of the uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "same using the two hop neighbors and covering all the two hop neighbors and doing that dynamically is a lot like the draft you mentioned the cds that richard algiere did for monet it's really it's really good the one question i had is you know all those other ones they tried to get two copies of it where this tries to get one oh yeah yeah brilliant yeah yes okay so observe that so i omitted this this step right when you sort these neighbors and then you take the hash of the lsp to know where you start and that will give you balancing so you don't start with the smallest system id depending on the lsp id well not really like a hash of it so you don't have too many buckets you start somewhere in the middle or you know whatever for every lsp so you use different guys and while you're taking these guys off the list in a sense you are looking which of the two hope neighbors does this guy cover and the moment you have full coverage of the two hope neighbors you go like okay i'm done right those are all the guys that are really re-flooding now right nothing prevents you and every node can do it differently to from generating a double coverage you go like i'm taking these neighbors off the list and i'm counting the two hope neighbors whether they have been covered twice that's what rift does and all three times so whatever it can be a local configuration right and each guy can actually do it independently some guys can cover once some guys can cover twice it does not really matter it will just generate additional copies but yes i think this is in the draft maybe not well explained yet but that's how double triple coverage would work okay and the other comment i had this is a quick one is you're basically doing a psnp of all the lsps that didn't get flooded so that's essentially almost to the neighbors you didn't flood yes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "uh that that's almost a csnp that you're doing every second that seems like a lot uh [Music] i didn't think through that well don't forget that you load balance right so an lsp will go to a if you did not reflot this specific lsp then you say like okay all the two hope neighbors i didn't reflect this lsp i have to psnp them but don't forget it balancing always on lsps so you will omit some fraction of the flooding and that will be used to generate this psnp saying you know i omitted this lsp to you guys so it is a fraction you know how much of a fraction will depend on the hashing function if it's evenly distributed it should be an even fraction so it's not really a csnp of the whole database it's just the fraction that you didn't reflock based on the hashing algorithm for these lsp it's the ones that changed it's the ones that did change but you did not re-flood to that neighbor okay that makes it a lot correct right yes exactly i thought it would i thought it was i thought it was all when i read it i just took that i said why are you doing all the ones that didn't change and i well you see how my name ended up on the author's list right so i had to give it a couple of helpful twists yes but let's uh okay yeah you can fix that thanks okay ben hi ben madison work online um a couple of questions and my apologies if these are in the draft i haven't read it um the first is it seems like there are topologies where running this algorithm would save you more work than others and there are probably you know probably the more regular the topology the more work you save and in a lot of service providers the network i run i i'd imagine you probably don't save a lot of work by doing all of the extra"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:00",
    "text": "computational work have you looked at where that balance is so that you can make recommendations to operators about where they're still appropriate uh look at the average uh fan out on your network the higher the fanout the more you save that's pretty much the output you know so the claw of course will save a lot if you have a very sparse network there are very few flooding paths and like what the hell do you want to cut out right most most the generate case is something which is you know hamiltonian path or you know minimal cut you know i was like yeah there's one way to flood it so what do we optimize i think you overestimate the growth theory capabilities of most network operations i think all right but basically pros about that the smaller your your average fennel degree the less this thing will be useful to you right and the the bigger the diameter of the network the sparse rate is the less useful this thing will be right yeah okay that's that mean that's yeah and as to the computation we were concerned but don't forget you only compute when the stuff hits you the first time on demand so you of course you have the spanning tree of the originator right and then when it hits you with lspid with fits in a bucket new bucket then yeah you have to recompute those lists but that's why i put it in the draft and you take the lspid and you run a very strong hash so from the same originator you will only build maybe two buckets right so the same originator will kind of use two trees maybe double coverage yeah right and if you have a million origin in the network yeah i wish isis right i mean you were bound by relatively few nodes so you know worst case like go wild and say okay i have whatever 5k notes and times 2 for the lspid buckets you have 10k of those things to pre-compute and they're relatively small they're like minimalist right and once they're in place they're in place if you start to flap links well things get interesting yeah i i operate a network in a part of the world where the sparsest parts of the network tend to be the most unstable so i i'm i would be hesitant to without quite a good reason introducing more computation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:01",
    "text": "work to places in the network that already have transient like moments of hell of a lot of work to do um but i i think you've answered my question right i mean you you limited if you have a few paths and a lot of flooding you're limited anyway you're pretty much that like you know there's no magic i mean quantum computing would help you wait a couple of years okay so my other question was in the case where you are kind of your weight where you're where you're computing this this load balancing of responsibility for the re-flooding yeah have you considered scenario where the node that's responsible for re-flooding for one of these buckets because of some sort of a bug or a miscomputation fails to do so psnp does that that was my question that partition recovers from that scenario even if the so even if the re-flooding node didn't know that it's broken yes even if it's the compute if if the if you introduce a note that is utterly broken right and doesn't refloc properly with the other guys the ps and ps will fix it and we have something in draft saying like if you see this happening excessively uh well you better call ben and say like 4am here's a problem for you like that's that's procedure yeah well you should go with reputable vendors which i always say you know i don't want the main introduce me to any um i'd be very happy to talk to them what the less these reputable vendors does that cover it okay okay less quick uh points uh maybe we should you know take it to the list but i'm not totally convinced that you don't need to advertise whether on a per node basis whether you support it or not and you know maybe i'm wrong but if i'm not and i don't understand why you wouldn't define this as an algorithm that would utilize the dynamic flooding"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "uh draft infrastructure okay yeah i could answer that yeah okay so first bring bring me a case why we need to actually signal anything on technical basis if you find a case why this is required it's an interesting discussion the second question sorry if i'm not going to flood because i expect somebody else to flood and i don't know whether you know we're in sync no think that through that mixes with old nodes just fine if if you introduce new nodes they start to reduce everybody computing the same independently the old guys will still flood the full graph and that's fine and you don't have to know who is doing that who is doing that not i i know it's on you yeah i'll take a closer look the second quick comment is you use the term up-to-date psnps as as your remediation mechanism i have no idea how you would how you would determine that a psnp is quote unquote up to date because unlike a csnp a psmp doesn't have a range in it so you can't tell that oh yeah this covers everything between you know system id x although you have you have to list all of those things psnps don't don't give you that information are you mean the one that you are completely missed well no so think right you got these thing so you know the stuff exists and you push this psnp on the guy saying i have this psnp and if he doesn't have it he will request it right if he has an older version he will request it if he has the same version he will act and you're done yeah that's you that's not my point let's okay so i lost you yeah yeah i thought about that yeah you can't you can't know what you don't know but we don't have this problem you know i i was thinking about uh what you call it whatever you know the distributed system"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:01",
    "text": "stuff right uh no i thought through this stuff we don't have this problem unless you convince me we do then it will become interesting yeah okay okay thanks thanks les i have a quick ospf version is fairly obvious feels like a comment from you no it's actually uh it's i i may be half culpable okay this so we can take it to the list but we we were talking psnp and csmp uh to me ospf you have a you know database exchange that's you know what i'm saying yeah you don't have this sort of live i can't just set a timer and throw some packets out and get caught up and you were absolutely correct and yes i didn't think through this stuff i was just pestered by a couple of sp saying like oh the other was pf and you know absolutely let me break in we do have an experimental draft for this i think alvaro is an offer on it uh okay yeah i mean we could we could take that i'm sure this will be experimental so we could it could reference this that the experimental draft do uh incremental databases or so replace them with relatively run with it okay all right thanks good thank you very much thanks all right next up uh i think is peter with upa yes so hello it's peter here i'm going to talk about the unreachability prefix announcement on behalf of all the cultures so the problem statement the summarization is a reality people do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:00",
    "text": "summarize unlike with mpls networks where it was hard to do due to the requirements of the n2 and lsp with other technologies these days summarization is possible networks are growing the number of routers is growing significantly and summarization helps i think that's the fact arguing about it doesn't make much sense in my opinion obviously summarization is not only good it create problems and one of the problems is that it hides information it hides the reachability of the individual routers or prefixes so the problem that we are trying to solve here is to be able to summarize and still be able to signal that something has been lost and that can be used by various applications here we are mainly talking bgp peak but it can be used by any other you know applications what this draft talks about is it gives a backward compatibility solution without any need to extend the protocols so it only only defines why we are doing it basically next slide please so if you look at the rfc 5305 and 5308 it basically gives you a way to advertise a prefix as an unreachable prefix there is a range of metrics that if you advertise the tlb with that metric it basically the rfc says this prefix is unreachable from the traditional computation you can use this for other purposes that's the language that the rfc is using and all we do we are defining a new purpose here next slide please so what will and how will this work the existing nodes which will receive this will just you know flood this propagate but don't use it that's the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:00",
    "text": "behavior that the current specs are mandating the recognition of this advertisement and the usage is only needed on the nodes that want to use this information so typically this would be the pes if they are interested they can be configured to use this information and pass it to whatever applications may be interested in it the l1 l2 routers they would not propagate this today so that's the change in the behavior of the protocol that probably is the good reason why this trap exists in the first place is because we need to propagate this information between the area so if an l1l2 router attached to area x advertises this up advertisement it goes across the l2 and another l1 l2 router which attaches to area y may need to leak this information down so that's something that we are specifying that's something new but again this is not defining a new plb or anything we are just defining that you should propagate the unreachable prefixes and we can even bound the upa to a very specific metric if that is what the implementation wants to do next slide please so very similarly i i don't go into the details because it's basically the same thing but if you look at the ospf v2 and ospv3 spec it defines an ls infinity metric which basically works for external and summary lsas and the spec says that this is one way of flashing the information or making it unreachable so you can either flash the lsa or you can advertise it with this metric it has the same meaning basically it's unreachable next slide please and then again similarly to what has been said for isis the nodes will propagate this data it will not use or install these prefixes because it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "they are unreachable if they follow the spec we need to recognize these on the routers where we want to use this information which is again configurable and would be probably done on the edge nodes and again abrs would need to be smart enough to recognize this and re-advertise between the areas next slide so couple of implementation or recommendations that are worth mentioning is obviously we don't want to advertise tons of these if there is a catastrophic failure an abr or an n1 l2 router loses connectivity to everything doesn't make sense to advertise all the specific prefixes as a as an unreachable so there should be a bound the the use case for this is when a pe fails when not when the area partitions or some catastrophic failure happens and we don't need to keep this advertisement for a long time we need this advertisement basically for time needed to propagate them and plus some buffer obviously and then we can basically we throw them at the source yeah next slide and yeah let's start the show johnny uh tony p juniper it's kind of the side conversation we had in the hallway and ac will tell me that i'm an old man and they didn't do protocols in 25 years same thing as with the you know reverse metric stuff the infinity things can trigger a really interesting box right in lots of implementations um it's a courtesy draft i mean it's completely valid standard protocol behavior you know that you kind of use for other purposes i'm not overly concerned because if you pull up all the abrs even if the router"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:01",
    "text": "forward i mean you will kill the stuff on the abr right because the style you know that stuff is unreachable so yeah if we want to do it this way you know it's a list of all possible evils to abuse the protocol do this to do this kind of stuff thanks so just to let you know that there is a an implementation from an unnamed vendor and we have proved this that a reputable vendor oh yeah well i'll leave that up to you like unnamed sources of salt right okay yeah um so your your your comment is basically if we have to do unreachable you like this one it seems reasonable yeah by a far stretch by a far stretch i think it's mildly dangerous it's abusing the protocol and it should not be done this way if we really are concerned about the service going down rather than actually losing the router completely because we obviously this is not for service this is this is subtle right well i mean you kill the reachability of the router right so if there's a five different things and you're basically concerned about advertising my bgp thing went down but there's other stuff you you kill it wholesale but it doesn't like well this is what happens anyway today if you don't summarize right you lose the reachability of a box and then whatever else follows there's no difference yeah i mean you know now we start a little bit split herring which may matter in deployments but you know if practically speaking this this is easily done and it will be done anyway because certain reputable vendors you know they don't listen to reason always yes yeah okay i didn't go ahead with you come in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:07",
    "text": "so uh i i think uh as you mentioned the in the rfc you know ls infinity just indicated that the related lsa should be ignored during the spf or calculation and so there is no rvc to indicate that such a and that is infinity indicated the prefix is unreachable so i will think uh and also a point point out in the middle east several other person also point out that we need one explicit uh indication for the prolific unreachable so this is my this is my command okay okay i believe we can safely use ls infinity to indicate this if you read the specification very very uh you know thoroughly you will realize we can do that uh in terms of adding a very specific or you know explicit signaling for unreachability on top of this i still haven't heard any technical argument that would convince me beneath i know couple of poor few people have suggested that if they come up with the feasible technical argument i'm all for it i haven't heard any so far there there may be other situations that use less infinity to indicate other things so i think we should mix up this field to the other perform okay okay you can you can put that on a list and we can we can discuss the one example that you use that is for the ip flex logo on osp v3 i don't see a problem there but let's move that to the list because this can get lengthy okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:30:00",
    "text": "all right g hello yeah actually i send the mail to the list uh i also read the similar comments as itunes because reading the rfcs it shows that this rs infinity metric is just to ask the receiver now to install this prefix on you not to consider this prefix in the computation and now to remove it from another prefix which may cover this uh prefix right this is uh so this is a new behavior comparing to the previous statement in rc maybe and uh rc also mentioned that this uh rs infinity can be used for multiple use cases so in order to accurately indicate the which uh use cases you are using nate for and what is the expected behavior of the receiver uh maybe a more accurate indicator will be needed in the packet so i guess i already commenting on both of your comments so i'm not going to repeat that okay zebo hello okay one question that's the s infinity magicka of ip flash ego also need to be processed as upa and for ipflex algo what we defined if i recall correctly is that we advertise the the base tlv within infinity metric and include the metric of the flex algo inside so obviously the metric for the base algo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:32:02",
    "text": "never used so it cannot be interpreted as unreachable it's just the field that we put there because we are not advertising algo0 in that base tlv so that metric is always ignored and it obviously has no relation to algo0 you would have to go inside and look at the metric for the individual ipl goes and where the ls infinity can be used as a upa okay ac your mic is not on yet ac completely with peter uh this and the beauty of this is we use the same mechanism used for backward compatibility for the signaling now obviously only the routers that support the specification will act on the event notification but i mean that would be it no matter how you solve this problem that would be the case so it's um the two the two usages don't are are complementary they don't uh contradict one another they're both uh a signaling of of of unreachability right uh i guess as a working group member i don't like any of these i know and and you you you addressed my comment at the very beginning by saying you don't want to argue about the scaling requirement but i i just i don't know i'm still not sure like tony lee's idea of like let's just do a reachability protocol or the bfd ideas i i just there are multiple ways of doing this we've been asked by the providers to solve this in igp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:00",
    "text": "because they don't want to run any of the other things even bfd even bfd it's not that we are doing this because we like this we're doing this because we've been asked to address this this way it would be great if those operators would be showing up here and going you know what i'm saying like i know it used to happen okay all right well let's move on to the uh okay relevant yes thanks so um [Music] you will be up next let me give you the control here all right go ahead and pick your deck okay okay okay okay so uh so i will print the prefix unreachable announcement and this is the maybe the first time to make the practice how to uh so here is a history of the proper the solution we probe we propose first and 20 20 19 october in in singapore in idea for 106 and also after several several item meetings and we also discussed the uh the solution intensely on the lsr list and previously we focused on both on the control plane and the data plane convergence and after discussion we we converted to the focus on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:36:00",
    "text": "controversy switchover and we also discussed the uh intensely for the use case of the such information and i think kindly we all and will understand there are several several use cases need such useful information and uh online discussion there are also other alternative solution for example btp-based pulse and nlp and the upa just is introduced by peter and we we think the solution on converging for the pure and the ups solution now uh so here i just want to introduce the update content we we make the major update for the following content and the first is we describe briefly the applied scenarios so because in the mainly discussion many people wonder which which service will use such business so i think the foreign application can use the such a woman first in the pgp service and the second is the tunnel service and the third is the srv6 srv6 just also one kind of tunnel service so the p and the ps device will increase it in such a information so we think the pfd based solution and the other [Music] to um also and it's not as recent for the for the problem so we think the it-based solution may be more suitable and the root cause of the proper solution is the following and that is the samurais advertisement hide the unnecessary unreachable eligibility of its current prefix but the service that uh based on the detailed precipitate the prefix near to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:38:01",
    "text": "now the invisibility of this prefix to to switch over promptly to other alternative endpoint this is the root cause of the propelled solution and for resolution we need to also confine the negative advertisement to avoid in the igp flooding tour so i think many person may worry about the side effect of the such a notification so any any applications to the uh so consider this this carefully and the uh we updated the uh our solution is the uh the the the the message will um must declare the explicitly the associative prefix is unreachable uh with its prefix original certain law and the order to avoid the avoided the traditional router or unsupported uh misbehavior so we we set the uh associated metric to the lcd affinity so this can prevent the unspot node from misbehaving behavior i think such a uh such uh action is conformed to the uh rule of the are released rvc that is if you if the lsat carries uh the if if the method is of the lsa is ls infinity and then the spf for calculation will bypass the uh bypass will bypass the such lsa so uh the unsupported node will not misbehave so and we also define the capability bit for the negotiation of the static ability so if all nodes support the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:01",
    "text": "pa capability the ls infinity is unnecessary and the uh the second part for the updated solution is uh we we consider also the scenario that if only some of the abr can reach the maid in the prison that is when the network you participated participated so uh the abr account which the prefix should advertise the one specific route to the to the mission the prefix so this advertisement will let the traffic divert to the api that can reach the prefix and we also mentioned the switch over service switchover must take place only while all the adr advertises the same message we also make some update for the implementation consideration you know as i have mentioned the papers we must control the advertisement of such message within the area so we define the maxim maxi maxi address announcement shareholder to control the advertisement of the pua and the similar tests so if the number of the unreachable prefix is less than maa then adr can should advertise the summaries and the poi if reachable odds is less than ma the abr should advertise the detailed reach about this only and if both of the rich band unreachable prefix exit the ma then the and the abr should advertise the ma unreachable prefix and also set the same address with max metrics and at that time at the same time the vr's avr should notify the operator that there are several isn't occur within the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:42:00",
    "text": "network i think the the last uh uh last um scenario will be occurred only in the in the human network disaster so and uh so i think uh this stuff that has been discussed discussed about two years uh in the meeting on the main list so i think countries there are enough enough experts in switched this topic so we think it is time to move forward this document and we are glad to cooperate with peter to uh to make the uh make the overall overall solution to solve this problem and we are also welcome either closer to this uh this loss and the document okay that's all okay so um me and the queue as a working group member um or not i'm sorry back that up as a chair uh some of the comments i read on the list and maybe a little bit of the feeling in a couple of these slides uh it's been worked on for a long time yes because you know there hasn't been consensus and um there was a particular comment i saw that said you know it sort of like it was trying to justify this as the correct solution simply because it had been around longer and that that's never a reason that you know it has to be it has to be technically the best solution right it doesn't matter okay so i mean you you definitely uh we're there early on with this right that and that is something that should not go unnoticed but that doesn't yeah that doesn't you know favor your solution over a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:44:01",
    "text": "different solution just because you you know you recognize the problem first um so that was that's a chair comment um i i guess this is also uh you know the so it's good that you want to work with other people and i don't know if again if just because you started i don't know if this is the right document there seems to be a lot of uh commentary on the list about things like prefix originator and stuff that um you know people don't like right um so yeah i don't i don't know no yeah i i see yeah yeah uh you know you know we we also compare the uh to solution with peters and tier and upa i think the uh qa held a more complete uh complete complete consideration you know i think the indication of the unreachable information just one point of the overall solutions and we also we are also accept using other newly defined flag to indicate the unreachable prefix uh you know but uh this is um as i saw this is just a part of the solution and we our solution also cover other uh and you know this this is the point are discussed within the maintenance intensity so we hope that the traffic to include them i think the uh this is this is the main reason that we want to four this is solution okay yeah so um i there's no one else in the queue so i guess i'll just go again but this time as working remember i i did find it a little sort of funny that like you made a comment on peter's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:00",
    "text": "presentation about why ellis infinity wasn't good enough but it was good enough to put in your draft so it seems you know like is it good enough or is it not good enough right i mean that didn't seem very genuine to me uh peter's in the queue now so it's peter peter cisco so agent i mean we express many times that the mechanics that you use to signal unreachability in terms of advertising the originator as zero is broken i don't understand why you are still having that in your draft and the second comment i'm going to make when we started the draft i invited you and i acknowledge that you came up with the problems but you know with the problem space as a first i invited you to join the upa draft what you did instead you took and put the unreachability metric to your draft and still keeping your source or originator zero there i still honestly i don't know where are you heading with this yeah yeah the the we we also studied the possibility to use the newly defined flag to indicate the eligible information and i i also point out in the main list that for ospf of h3 there are limited space to to use to use in the flag if we rely on the flag we must extend the uh ospf v3 flag first and then uh define the uh define the one bit to single the eligibility you know so if the ice we need okay go ahead yeah i think the we are open to to accept the uh our option for the ex accepting"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:48:02",
    "text": "exactly indicate for the eligibility and but i think it is just one point of the overall solution you know um well there are other there are also other points that need to be considered consideration all you need is to signal unreachability you need a mechanism to that you put the unreachable metric you still want some explicit one the question whether we need an explicit one or not is something that we need to decide as a working group if we are going to decide we want to find another one not the one that you use for sure i'm still not convinced we need it but let's keep that as a as an option but then what is left in your draft right it's exactly the same thing as we have in the other draft where we just use the signal and reachability we don't need anything else no no we we need to control i think as you have said in your practice we need to define how to control the advertisement of the such information we need to kill the uh describe the situation when the network is participating participated so no i think i don't think so i don't believe so no there are possibilities to the network you know some apr can reachable and some apr can reach so such situation we need we all need to consider it you know the the single in just one point of the solution okay um i'm just going to break in because it seems to be a circular discussion here uh back and forth let's take the the point of whether or not explicit is needed i just wanted to point out that our agent said something wrong about ospf v3 if you're you weren't we wouldn't use the lsa options anyway we'd use some other flags and there are other"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:50:00",
    "text": "flags that are extendable anyway sorry sorry peter uh odjin for breaking but let's go to the next one yep so we've got 10 minutes left uh and one presentation uh we need to get yes uh i think i have to stop you presenting maybe and then give it to you again so you can pick again and then offer now you should be able to select again wait a moment i i don't see the i don't i don't know i see that too i now it should work let's try that okay okay okay now okay i can select now yeah okay so okay yep yeah okay so this is the update for the advertisement of the staffing attribute so here i want to describe why we want to uh what is the proper one to solve you know uh here i just describe a swiss scenario at the way when we are in uh we are encountered in our network the first is the interest interest connections you know in such scenario the sdr um will build the pgp session with your low back of this and there are uh there are several uh interest link competition ram so we want to uh recover the uh interest topology within the the 2s the second scenario is for the internet exchange center you know there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:01",
    "text": "are maybe maybe several ways connect within by the line interface and we want to also discover the cover the interconnect topology within them the third scenario is for the uh any cost any customer service now you know uh some several servers with the same address may be connected in the different network um while the stop links so we want to define one container to transfer the characteristic of the stop links in about snails and to solve the 2090 interest topology cover for example in the ptas and the oman is and also we want to do some traffic engineering to different servers based on the stubbling characteristics and at the main list point out the robot and there are also other um other scenarios that may help make uh it can use such information to select the best bgb pgp next hub we can end it later in the document so i think the the least plot active protocols is simple we just define one new container uh that is a new sub neutrality to contain the link type and the link prefix associated with the sub link so uh all all idp takes the similar format and we in this uh listing theory we defined the newly the link prefix subtly to contain the prefix of the stub link and this newly defined theory will be included in the correspond lsa and the pdo"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:54:01",
    "text": "i'll pick as uh as a comment from the from captain we will we may change the container for uh for for this newly defined tlv to more general uh lsa and here we want to point out clearly that the prefix of trv is not the identifier of the stub link it is just one kind of the sub link attribute same as other already defined stably already defined sub sub tlv for the link attribute and here we is the reason that we do not want to use the existing container you know as we have discussed in the main list uh several times there are two rc define the t related uh theory to to contain such information about the interest link but these this subtlety must be present for every interest link for for example the remote s number and ipv4 and ipv6 remote sbr subtly so so if we uh solve the problem solve the problem based on these two rc uh for the 90s now then the then it will have the four links uh the first is not efficient for every interest stub link to include the redundant information and it is not possible to describe the line establishing is and for the uh for any cast server scenario we need we need some logical information to describe the stub link between s and the edge server"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:56:01",
    "text": "and also point out uh by academy in the main list such as unnecessary information will be populated and unnecessary the t database so we we don't want to use against the rc to solve the problems so i think this is overlook our solution for the problem and uh also this solution helped pm uh what making working adoption for the first time under there i think the update contend has addressed the uh comment for gillian from the first adoption call and if there is no other no other comment occasion we can we ask to the working group to fold it again okay ac are you in the queue or was that just leftover yeah okay i'm off it was left over oh okay go ahead les the question is to the working chairs um this draft has been prevented multiple times it's been sketched extensively on the list there was a working group adoption call the conclusion of the group adoption call was not to adopt why are we still talking about this agent no no no the question is through the chair yeah okay well i'm completely understanding no less i'm curious as well my comment was going to address that actually but i'm sorry i apologize no no no no need to apologize you did ask the chair yeah yeah so as a i'll just say"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:00",
    "text": "go ah hang on a second so we did everything les just said is true on the mailing list he said the same thing and you know there was words thrown around about baseless comments and they weren't baseless you know when the adoption call was failed i even asked you know please you know be very mindful before you bring this draft back you know the working group had given you an answer and the rough consensus was not to adopt and you know then we had more mailing you put out new versions and we had more mailing lists and you still hadn't convinced people we still don't have rough consensus and we're still spending working group resources on it i mean it's you know when is enough enough yeah correctly uh listen chris i think uh i want to explain you know the the the failure of the first topic is that there are some technical uh problem needs to solve and it's not not not because it is unnecessary so i think the reason we want to adopt someone properly that it can be used in the network and i i think it is common uh commons so now that some working some document be adopted several times based on the command from the uh from the adoption code process so i think we have updated the draft and to to address the command so if you have additional comments for the updated draft i think i can discuss with you if you have not i think it is right now to avoid it okay i'm not sure i followed that but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:00:01",
    "text": "if we could do that in email um i i yeah i think that i think we need to consider letting this one go because it's there are it's like you're trying to come up with a better solution that is you know prettier or something and you know i appreciate that but like you keep talking about here there's a way to do it this way and there's a way to solve this other problem this way in other words solutions exist right and you you're trying to make a better cleaner solution but people aren't biting right they don't they don't think it's worth doing no i i think the uh the the the final year okay yeah i mean one sentence and i think the final user for the every every proposal in the service provider i think the third part has more um more more right to uh to to declare or to hazard is it necessary or not okay well you're right we give a lot of weight to service providers opinions um but they still have to come with technical reasons and those haven't been shown that the current solutions aren't good enough anyway so i hate to end on such a negative note but we're out of time um it's 1201 and so of course the mailing list is available thank you igen do you have any any last any last comments yeah i was just going to say let's take not not an adoption call but let's take the uh the question of why we need an adoption call to the list another one because you know that i i'll reserve my comments"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:02:00",
    "text": "for that uh mail fred since we're over time okay well thank you everyone and uh hopefully we'll see even more people in london and hope hopefully we'll see more people on the list discussing drafts other than their own yes you"
  }
]
