[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:53",
    "text": "So Yes."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:04",
    "text": "Yes because you're gonna do the rest. I have no idea where that. Like a. I thought it's a remote Okay. So we're at thirty two. We've given people a chance to polish off the coffee and we'll go ahead. So welcome to the Open Pg sessions? At Sixteen, if you're in the wrong room, This is a good chance to leave but don't because it's not had many of you. So as usual, we have no wells that you should be well. I guess he's all seen this. Get another moment to enjoy us. We're in a hybrid meeting. So please scan the qr codes I can't actually use the excuse that we might get a bigger room the next time I guess so we can't get a smaller one. That's okay. So yeah. Please do join the mid otherwise kinda the qr code or joining the medical tool with the on your phone or on your laptop? And again, remote folks are are joined that's so we did the blue, and we are being recorded."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:04",
    "text": "And being recorded. If you're a vote, please use and do all the right things with headsets as usual. This meeting, obviously, we if you're physically present, we'd need to be wearing masks. And everybody seems to be doing that really well. Thank you. The Color conduct says to be nice. Nice crowd. So that's that's that's okay with this group. I think. Do also... Because we have this transcription thing, if you're at the microphone, or if you're remote and speaking and sending audio, please do say your name because I think these transcripts do get stored somewhere and might be useful. Alright. More useful if you say your name First. And put yourself in the queue even if you're in the room. Yep. And speaking names I'm steven Farrell one of the chairs and I'm then I can't gilmore more. Okay. So our agenda is to... We have the crypto refresh graph just almost done. We'll basically just very quickly describe the updates from seventh days I have to. There's some open merger requests that's a couple one radio requires discussion... I think that's what it is. It's give you go heads up. There's there's a bit more discussion on each of these points. But, yeah. The the open class are very they're very subtle, and there's not a lot of there's not a lot of there's no wire format changes for example. It's basically to be gotten So we're... And then after that basically, so that'll take as long as it takes. Because finishing the churn work is what we have to do. Then there's some work on interoperability and test suites that antonio you daniel and justice I think is you're gonna talk that too. Just reporting on interoperability in where. And then in in optimistic mode, we're gonna assume that we do can finally get the publication request here on the crypto refresh and then it seems sensible to take the opportunity to allow people to discuss some of the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "possible charter topics. Have been raised previously on the list or otherwise in in issues or whatever That. Do we have a note taker? Did you get a? I got ahead. Thank you. Thank you. I I I didn't he just but he just wanted to. So thanks. Thanks. Thanks w. So that's our agenda. Anybody wanna bash the agenda? Not seeing anybody in the queue from remote or in the room. But assume that's good. The other thing is because we're kind of almost done, but we've been almost done for a month And we have this danger of you're talking the last causing us great More t's that we need to to does. I think what we're gonna propose, but we'll do that at the end of the just before we start talking about profitability. Where we're gonna propose to see your people are okay with us? Is basically to less Daniel and Poll motors are editor for the draft. Kind of free to do a couple of weeks work worth of editorial changes and tidy up and fixing Ia considerations and hot. With reporting to the list, but without starting a discussion or a merger merry request reached minor change just to get those last bunch of things done. So can think about whether you think that's a good bad or indifferent idea. And we'll ask again just before we get to the interoperability thing when we've seen all the changes. So the plan we're suggesting and see if people are okay. That is essentially after this meeting, when we have the the notes on, Paul and D will hopefully in a couple of weeks. Per say. Get all of the last few and dotted and t's crossed that we need. And then we'll have another rev draft. Gives the working group a few days to look at it. And then hit that publication request button. Because we're we're that close and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "adding more kind of the cycles on merge request, our git lab issues this point is probably gonna be just add another month for another reason. That's of suggestion. If you're okay with us, we'd appreciate the letting us know lot later. If you have a problem with it, please do express those problems later on in agenda. I remember that when we get it done, we can charter. So please don't... If you're like, oh, I've got this great idea. Don't try to jam it into the draft now. But yeah. You can try it but that's the answer no. So hopefully, that's clear enough for everybody. And if anybody else want to ask a question now. Go ahead. But we will bring it up again. So you can sit and ponder it for a while. Okay. So that's our slots. Moving up. This is D is going to present some recent changes. I mean, that's the slide deck business? So, yeah, I'm gonna present high level view of of the changes. And then probably the largest most recent the largest recent change is gonna be presented by Daniel Wiggins. Sorry. I keep feel like your name, Daniel. He'll do do that presentation remotely. So just to... Next slide, Steven. So top level view, since dash o seven, dash show eight is out now. We moved from version five to version six interoperability, we discussed that at the last We basically agreed to do it... That's done. We changed the signature trailer length field width from eight to four our to avoid a weird alias thing that the memory open hour found. We bound the v signature salt size to the hash algorithm. For version six signatures, that addresses a concern that I believe Aaron was raised. And perhaps to be able to handle those quantum stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:05",
    "text": "We forbid explicitly for forbid the use of a. With the new encrypted the the new data encryption format. We tweaked the way that clear text secret keys are stored in version six to not have this useless checks some, which just makes v six a little bit cleaner, a little bit easier. We added explicit new public key algorithms for the Cfr g, x two five... Two five five one nine and x four four eight, is what Daniel will present on in second. And in seven, we also introduced a novel form of having in P for two. Five one nine and x four four eight. That was a matter of a little bit of discussion in contention after zero seven was released. Zero eight was released. So steep next slide. So o eight was released a little while ago before the cutoff And in the discussion that happened since then, we removed the custom padding for v k k for the new Cfr key exchange mechanisms. And instead move to using clear text symmetric algorithm choice there. And we added a little bit of guidance on how to handle the reg packet with an there. So those are the only substantive changes that are sitting and git at the moment. Next slide. That's the last slide. That's so last thought. Great. So that's the that's the rough overview of what was done. Hopefully, you followed all of that on the list or in Git lab. If you didn't, this is just a heads up to you now. And I'm gonna turn it over to Daniel to talk about the x two five five one nine and x four four eight choices here. Daniel are you are you here? Yes. Ask So Daniel should I pass you control of the slides or should I do next you wanna tell me to well? I I'll control them it that's okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Let me just do that? Okay. And then just to be clear that the stuff you just presented that was all discussed on and on the list already. So that's why we were so for it. Okay. Diane. So. Go ahead. Yes. Thanks a lot. So I'll start by giving a very brief history to to kind of explain how we ended up here. So a long time ago, twenty twelve Easy was added to Over three. And that that only had the the missed curves And then in twenty sixteen, dd with eighty two five five nineteen was added In two thousand seventeen, curve two five five nineteen over Was added both of these in in drafts only and they were using sort of custom oi ids under private enterprise the means and these were sort of non standard and specific to or at least they weren't introduced anywhere else. And then in twenty eighteen, an R was released for the in x five zero nine And these were never updated in the drafts for Open. So we sort of ended up with this inconsistent state let's say. And then in the design team, sort of last year, there was some discussion about moving to the new eighties ids but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "since there was already a very large body of curve two five five nineteen. He's out there we decided against it. But then at lost them in in February, of this year, there was some we were talking about it again. And then also on the working remaining list, there was again, some discussion about this And there it seemed like there was more interest in switching to the x five zero nine. However, at that point, At least to me, it seems better to switch to entirely, new algorithm Id ids so that we could also clean up some of the other quirks with the usage of curve to five five nineteen in open to b. Such as the big onion versus little indian swap compared to the and the encoding of material in Apis. So then I propose to find new algorithm ids for these curves. So I'll now describe those ids. So first of all, there's two for ed to five five nineteen and ed four freight that are very simple. They just hard coat the length of the keys and the signatures on the wire they're encoded directly in native formats with no other especially encoding. So no Apis are used."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "Then x two five five nineteen and freight are similarly, meant to be quite simple, but slightly more involved so again hardcore coated attacks and no Apis. Also no padding. Since at least for Ip two We don't need to encode the this symmetric algorithm Id in the session key and the session key is always a multiple eight And since the this symmetric algorithm Id is in care text in the S two packets. Then there's is no use in no need and now use in padding the session key since So in in v three, k and v one s since this symmetric algorithm Id was was hidden then there's some Well, the idea was that you could hide the size of the the session key. Right? But I think the the added value of that is fairly low and if you're worried about that's then can just use the largest case size use a at two fifty six. And sort of be done with it. Though there is one quirk that I'll get you in the next slides. So No padding and no two check simon since there is already an eight octave checks some in the A key wrap algorithm So that that's checks some unnecessary as well. So we move that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "into each of the specific algorithms since previously previously it was there for all algorithms in the in a P Es k. Back it. Then Instead of the the key evaluation function that easy did uses the the Pdf here is much simpler It's just an h over the shared key with a hard hard coded info parameter. And then the the session key is encrypted using dots using a key route. That part is still the same. As Ec. Alright. So then one wrinkle rust was brought up on the main east or on Git about how do you use these algorithms with the V three pig es k because there you still have This metric algorithm Id with the session key, so then it's not a multiple of eight that so you either need some padding or find some solution. So the the original proposed solution as was released in o seven as Ekg mentioned was to add some padding. But there were Well, the the padding scheme was let's a bit ad hoc and non standards. So and also I not super happy with it So I proposed to instead just leave it une uninterrupted. Since"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "the... There's no padding then also encrypting it has little added value since... Yeah. You can most drive most of the information from the length of the safety. However, This one additional wrinkle which aaron pointed out is that if you leave it une encrypted then you... An could also change it and try to make recipient decrypt the message under a different symmetric algorithm than it was encrypted with and if one of them is very weak for some reason, or a non standard algorithm is is used or implemented, perhaps then it could there that theoretically lead to issues, So one idea there could be to say that we can only use Aes in this context and just say that if a message is encountered with a different algorithm in in this context then we just reject the message So so that's that's one idea could be other ideas as well, but But yeah. That's that's sort of the the state right now. So there's one other sort of subtlety with these new algorithms, which is that. The recipient fingerprint fingerprints is no longer balanced to the the B bk unlike in Ec d, Ach, So this means that there is no guarantee that's the message was specifically encrypted to your key."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "However, in a sense you don't, ever really have that guarantee unless you have the internet recipient fingerprints, in a signature in the sign an encrypted message which says that this message was encrypted for your. So in other words, if you're gonna implement these new evidence, this also implement the Internet recipient fingerprints signature sub packet. So not having it in the pdf actually also has another benefit because it's makes automatic forwarding easier. But we'll talk a little bit more about that. In one of the both topics for the recharging. Yep. I think that's about it. So Any questions about these algorithm? So what's the state of this change? This in or So most of this is in fact merged and it's get So there's this small thing about potentially man as that has not been since Aaron pointed this out to me yesterday. So I will probably make a merge request if that seems like reasonable solution to everyone. And I mean, I... I'm not seeing lots of people jumping up and down with the lights or with the horror"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "I think it's a little bit detailed for probably with people's. Can you characterize what you mean by man using a? I mean, what's what's that using a for... What Yeah. So that that would mean like, if your encrypt to a mixture of keys one of which is one of these new algorithms. Right? So x to five five nineteen or x for it. And another one is let's a a legacy key that's doesn't support Ip d two, which means that you have to use as pd one with a a v three p k. Right? Then you have to leave the the symmetric algorithm Id I'm encrypted in the v three es in this scenario. Alright. Well, as it added as it is, in the gate repo right now. Which means that then after encrypting a message, someone could change it could change the symmetric algorithm Id. Right? And then on the decryption, the the implementation loads use a different algorithm which might be bad. Potentially. So the idea would be to say, in that scenario, you have to use Aes and then if you use something else the decrypt implementation would reject the message. Can I can I try a a shorter summary of what you're pose changes? Yes. If you're using the new key, the new style of key. You're encrypt to the new style of key, but you're using the old style of encryption then you need to use Aes. For that. Right. Right. That's that's the requirement it's place. Basically saying, look, we don't you to use the old salad encryption with this new key, but there are some circumstances where you might be obliged to do that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "And if you are obliged to use the old encryption style with the new encryption key Because for example, you're to a group of recipients and not everyone has the new key. Mh. You should use Aes as the symmetric cypher to avoid this potential for a some sort of cross protocol attack. Okay. So... So it's it's we're we're taking... We're carving out a little corner case of a corner case and saying, if you land here, use this particular standard to avoid a potential other problem. But the the problem doesn't exist outside of that corner case of that one. Okay. And So Daniel we use... Will you put a merge request for that and ends then mail to the list with the specifics where it in the next... Yes, sir. Right. Okay. Yes. Yes. Hi. I'm Jealous. So don't have much knowledge about. Or not deep into the topic at all. But Would that mean just to cover this corner case of a case using the Aa version is the safest way to go. That then the preferred method? Because I would cover all the cases even this Small corner case? From a practical point of view? You're saying to require Aes period. Yeah. I mean, like, if you say, okay. Usually, you don't need to use aes there a corner case of a case where it's important so In general, I would then say, okay. I just use a So the trouble with that Well, I don't know Dan. Do you wanna answer? as an implementation, you can make that choice. Well, Right? You can always use As and be safe. The question is just whether we need to mandate dots in the spec right? Or whether we need to mandate it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "only in the in the corona case. I guess. So with Again, I I think it's go having that like contact series, probably. Part of the trick okay. You. Yeah. Yep. Transcript. My question is what is really the concern about the cross algorithm the? Because I mean, you take what apply here is a symmetric algorithm that is so weak. That by the decryption result, you review of the secret key. Right? Otherwise it wouldn't matter. Yes. I agree like video. And again, just for clarity, when you say mandate using Aes, You mean having in those particular messages, no other symmetric. Right. That seems a little bit over the top for a very beach corner case perhaps Other hand if you're in the niche corner you probably want to be using anyway. Like... This is not a corner case where you're gonna want to be deploying your fancy new crypto You're deploying the advancing your crypto algorithm, the pets use symmetric effort probably deploying it with get to to send to someone who has a modern key. So you're not gonna be needing to do. Yeah. Anyway make the merger request and we can discuss this on the list. Alright. We we we don't want to have a week and once worth of discussion. Right. So So make it as minimal as you can. Minimal and simple as you can and clear. Yes, alright. So I think In the west, the extent to which you're using specific algorithms should be minimized I think So only... You only say mandated for that subset of a subject."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "Okay. Okay. Well with fast, again, just Anybody else want to chime in on that particular topic? Service, I wonder if you can take your comment and and raise it by voice because I'm not sure I understand it. Yes. You hear me? Yep. Okay. So. I just wanted to ask the key elevation you perform x two five five nineteen or x four four eight? It just takes the the shared point right or coordinate? It doesn't include the ep exchange points. Yes. Indeed it just contains the the shirts key. Okay. Yeah. That was to... This is just the question because there is sentence in R seven seven four eight that specifies those algorithms It says that the parties can use also the exchange parts to include them into the Pdf. Mh. This has some kind of security consideration behind it. So that was just a question. So it's basically heading at chosen for Texas attacks, which be considered in the P draft Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thanks so I think Sub. So you trying to say that that the current implementation should change how it does the key vision. From my point of view, Yes. I don't want to delay your process. Is also what I would like to point out. Right? I don't think that the change would be heavy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:01",
    "text": "but maybe you should give it a thought. So what is say what it's the the reason behind this is this then version that is called hash marquee encapsulation that is proven by a k tube to bc Cc to secure So there's very strong security guarantees. Yeah. And it's it's noted in the Ro that's space five those x algorithms. but it's like a must. Right? So Do you think that if we have the the intended recipient fingerprints in the signature before encryption. That that sort of covers the same guarantees or no. I don't know. To be honest. Because yeah. So the downside of including it there in the is that then we... Again, for for automatic forwarding, have to do something special, which okay? I guess we still need to discuss later on whether it will be in scope. For the for the restructuring. But... Yeah that was the the idea of doing it like this. Okay. Thank you. So I I also don't want sorry, aaron you're in the queue. I think it all boils down to whether we want to see to security or not. Because the kind of attack that you can have here is someone having a different plain types the sorry been find text"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "and just submitting it to some oracle that is able to decrypt it and then you use that side for text to decide for the original cycle effects. So basically, someone that is able to transform the get a the the the decrypt version of it. And then reuse it to the crypt. But the key breath that is been done. So This is, like, in in some scenarios, this my be relevant like the smart card's scenario, This might be a relevant security question. In most open basically cases, I don't think. It is, but this is to the working group to to see a little bit So so again, let me ask so these are things this is a change. The as we could do. And my guess is This change will add another couple of weeks of discussion. During which we might find yet had another change that we could do. So is anybody really pressing to make this change now? Given that that risks was hitting the infinite loop of not getting finished. So If you really want this, can you speak up now as you said you really want even at the risk of causing a delay that possibly expands. Just to make it clear, from my side, I'm not pushing for this. Just question to make here for me? So... And as I already said, I don't want to delay the working group finishing the crypto refresh. I want to just repeat the obvious as we talk about adding more stuff, we cannot reach charter her until we are done here. Yes. Okay. So So sa is not pushing for this that this happier to see progress than this particular change?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "And is anybody if this change were made is there anybody who's going to seriously complain about it. Just to try to understand what what the scope of of arguing would would be. Iron you're in the queue. I would be happier without this change. So while we can live with it, I would be happy with those. Because, I mean, Encrypted forwarding is one reason. Delivery a second. Okay. So I'm I'm going to just suggest that perhaps the right thing to do is not to make this change. And Nobody's jumping up to predict that. So I think that's where we've kind of land on the minutes of this meeting and Daniel if your merge requests here's this? And if somebody jumped... Objects the list to the minutes then we'll do without there. Great. So This is the last breaking What are? The the whole deal diane entire marriage us. Daniel's merge request is not actually breaking any wire formats. the the thing that establishes is proposing would be we get change to that. Okay. Yeah. The Okay. So I I I think again from the notes that will be that daniel will create a merge request as reflecting this slide deck in the next there too, and then the others will process best. Cool. You, Daniel. Thank you. Thank you. An next slide deck is open? Yep. So back to D ekg. So again, this is kind of a fairly a pretty brief summary of the Yeah. There... So there's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:04",
    "text": "some merge requests that are opened that are editorial changes, non substantive editorial changes. I'm gonna walk through here the merger request that are the The ones that have some amount of substance, it's very small amount of substance. It's mostly guidance. Maybe some tweaking of Arts twenty one nineteen keywords. Just wanna get folks a heads up here. Next slide. We don't those are the ones that have editorial changes. So essentially, this is these are the set of things that we're Right. And if you have any particulars proposing that you and Paul just go fix in the next couple weeks. strong concerns about any of these you know, now is the time to to speak up. So Merger class two sixty eight recommends or actually mandates setting, critical when you generate these particular sub packets, you should mark them as critical. A sub packet that is marked as critical will be used if it is not understood by the client, it will be it will cause the signature to be rejected. Assuming the implementations. Of the guidance. So there's a list there. You can check it out on the merge request. A little bit of discussion on the merger quest. Next slide. Supposed to be a check mark there, but it didn't work. Primary keys must be able to sign Question two sixty nine. The text is currently ambiguous. It says primary keys must be able to sign it sort of says if they want to sign, which implies maybe they could be made to, like, non signing algorithms could work. And this clarifies it to me the first thing there, which is just primary keys must be able to sign period. Reason for this requirement is that primary keys need to be able to make self signatures. And sit and certifications. So this just clarifies and ambiguity that I think Jonathan him I identified in the text. Next slide."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "Two seventy one says an implementation should implement certain sub packets It the draft currently says that an implementation should implement the first five on the list that you see on the slide there, and this merge request suggests, maybe we also need to say you really should implement the feature sub packet which identifies a type of encryption rather the type of decryption you are capable of folks know what kind of encryption to send to you. So this says, basically, we should... If we're if well while we're recommending implementation of sub packets features is something that should also be on the list. Next slide. Two seventy two says, a sales signature guidance, I believe Steven you identified that the language there is wishy washy, it actually includes text currently that says something like behave politely, which no one of the Id knows what that means. But we would like people too. I we have a good of context, but I don't think it's trying to refer to that. And this basically changes that language to be Twenty one nineteen language. So please take a look. Tell me if you didn't tell the working group, either on the medal list or on the git lab issue, if that's problem. Next slide. There is a... There are two regis for the notations. In Open Bg signature sub packets. One of them is about the flags. One of them is about the registered notations in the Name space. The item in space is actually empty. Nobody has anything moving putting in, so we will just making a note to the Diana yet. Yes, we want this registry. Yes, it's also currently empty. And the flag registry has columns that are called security recommended and ability recommended that I think nobody really understands. There's only one flag listed anyway. If you look at the merge request, there's some discussion of the history of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "how those things seem to have crept in and Nobody is advocating for them. So this just rips out those columns that nobody understands and is advocating for. Next slide. This is the last one. So Fa is gonna give a presentation about some guidance that he's proposing to add about session key reuse. That's two twenty eight. He'll follow this talk to explain that in a little bit more detail. And then there's some merge request for test vectors because we currently do not have all the test vectors that the draft needs be able to confirm interoperability. There's two merge requests right now, one for a secret that has been locked with the pass phase. One with a clear sign message, believe we also need a test vector that is for encrypted and signed messages. So if you can produce such a test vector, or you can, you know, confirm one that someone else's produces, that would be a great thing to propose. Also this merger request two twenty three, which asks to remove a check someone padding from version six Ec h keys, that with the inclusion of the Cfr g curves, this distinction maybe is not needed anymore. Was proposed and nobody who proposed it seems to really care that much now that we've switched over to the raw Cfr g curves. So I think it's probably just gonna drop. If you care it, you need to speak up and advocate for it now. That would actually be a wire change format and we're trying to not do wire change formats. I think that's that. I'm gonna turn it over to Fa and I folks have questions about the merge request that we just just ran through? I I... Just a question on the last? So are you proposing to Two two three is merged not. It is not merged and I think we are going to not merge it. Okay So the proposal is to... The prepare to drop two two three because the folks who propose initially are satisfied with the way that we don't have adding on the new curves, we wanna encourage people to use the new stuff. And Does including two two three or dropping two to three, which loans is the wire change, which is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "the status school. To merge it would change the would would change the wire. So the proposal is don't merge two two three. So much two do three because that will make the way that you deal with Ec h more similar across v before and v six. And so don't worry it will not be a word from a change. With the with our proposed before. Yep. Cool. So I don't see anybody in the queue. So I'm gonna turn it over to Fa Fuck. Are you here? Can we Can you just turn your mic and say hi? Hi. Yes. I'm here. Great. And your deck is coming up. So if folks have not read the merge request it's a fairly short and compact set of text about guidance about session q reuse and fog gonna explain it in more detail here in the deck. Thanks. Take very fa. Pac, do you want me to move the slides forward for you Or we just that. Okay. Can I to say? Yep. I do it? You can do it if you wish. One second. All the slots kind aggressive media are already will be taken. Okay. No. You you can't do it at the moment, I'm afraid. So you have to tell me two four doesn't need. Okay. Yes. Okay. So the the presentation is about security consideration section that I proposed for the session q reuse feature that is introduced on the crypto refresh. Next slide, please. So we are going to look at the background, What is this session q feature And then, yeah, about avoiding pitfalls addressing interoperability and what the requirements that were formulated in the security considerations section that is proposed. Okay. Next slide, please? So here, you can see the the matrix request. And we have the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "the session key reuse and and the crypto refresh, which is a new feature means that contrasting to the previous approach where each new message even a reply would create new pk case here, we can speaker case And I best explain it on the next slide visualization. So we see initially and initial message that has two recipients and the sender, the send, of course the crypt crypto themselves. And you know, normal reply, we would create new P case And of course, new Symmetric, packet. Now with this session key use Sk mechanism mechanism, we can just reuse the Pk case they are sent again unchanged. To the previous recipients, respectively, the the sender. But the symmetric packet has changed. It contains a new solved value. The salt value is important because if I reuse the session key, of course, normally, okay. Well it's not necessary ultimately to have the salt you could also use a different nuns. If you wouldn't have to solve. But that would actually have a drawbacks because of the non space. So the solid value is the correct approach that is proposed here already. To refresh, and this has to be chosen a new for message. The advantage is that even if I don't have the public keys of the recipients I can of the or the original sender I can reply to the set of all the recipients including the sender. The technical ways is that it's done in the crypto versions that a per message keys derived from the session key beside using h f,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:00",
    "text": "is also very important independently of this feature because otherwise, you have a problem of downgrade attacks to Cf which could mean that oracle attacks against even the Ae e modes Okay. Next slide, please. We come to the pit pitfalls and the basic problem is here that you have now if you use this feature, you would not using public key encryption anymore. You're basically using symmetric key encryption with a shared the symmetrical is a metric key. And of course, this means if I send the message to ever the message to Eve and to Bob and now Bob only replies to Ellis, then handle crypto access to this message. If she can get to the encrypted message. See because she can decrypt it. Because she has the pk k which decrypt still the same session key. Next slide, please? Special cases where the attacker removes himself from the message prior to the one of the recipients the other recipients receiving it, So here, alice encrypt to eve and top bob. But even the sets the message to bob for instance by accessing his mailbox she modi the message, bob doesn't see that even recipient of the original message she replies to to alice, only as things, but also if can read this message. So on the one defense here would be to use the intended fingerprint print. Henry recipient fingerprint sup packet if the messages is also signed. Okay. Next slide, please. Of course, at the same applies to replying to more than the original recipients if I had a recipient in the reply that wasn't"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "recipient of the initial message. Now this additional recipient also has read access to the original message or even further messages. Next slide, please. Then we also have to consider the case that yeah. I even for instance an email client, and I compose a draft that uses the To reply to a message Now I resumed that draft message, maybe you now bit more difficult to have the context of the session care use that even know that session care use was used to compose the original draft And if my client tries to behave correct and warn me about adding or removing recipients to this message, as we've seen is could be a problem in a previous bit pitfalls Now is the is... This raises the question? How this can be done if this can be done in case of resuming draft that are stored somewhere I don't have any means to to store additional information with it, like, in nine Okay. Next slide, please. Then we have the potential use of interfering session here you so let's assume a protocol, which these with very large files. So I have an encrypted file on the disk guy send it to someone, and of course I could just say I my client to you. Just uses the existing encrypted file and I share So I I reuse the the session key which by by itself is not a problem because anyway people that already have access to this file they can read this file. I send it someone else. Okay? So no problem. But now if this is this protocol also allows session key used in the reply Of course, now The the replying party doesn't know necessarily that this session key already shared. Okay. Next slide, please."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:03",
    "text": "So then interoperability can be a problem if I have a client that supports Sk, and I also have client that doesn't, and I start composing a message. With a Sk support client and there is humid to send it with a client that doesn't support it. So I don't really I cannot really predict what will happen. So the non supporting client may be able to send the message on changed it may even be able to send the message changed. So this would be the case if it in the the message change, it wouldn't be you the Pk case, but only the encrypted the data. So also the recipient list could be changed possibly in this what then mean Pit pitfalls one and two would apply I cannot really prevent because I cannot make any prescriptions for the non unsupported client, of course. Okay. Next slide, please. So Now we come to the brief summary, what security consideration sections section is tries to say additional to bringing up this potential pitfalls. So signaling of the use of, I I think necessary in all cases and the user control of this sure So you should be able to deactivate it and whenever it is used, you should be aware of it. Because there might be cases where he doesn't expect it So you might have a public key of someone but it expires in between maybe two messages now you could be court and continuous use of the several key are knowing that that should not That should be prevented. I think it's important. Using slightly different email addresses maybe could be a problem."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:02",
    "text": "And then in some application context, not an email, but others, it might not be clear what is considered to reply, what is considered in your message. So messaging client for instance, so you potentially don't have this differentiation. So it would not be clear when session security would be apply could be applied and we're not. And we also decided to Yeah. So recommend very strongly that we cannot make a a really a short... Okay. And capital letters, but we are recommending very strongly that implement a short use guidance documentation for this specific application to use the Sk that doesn't exist for now. So it would mean that for any application, so it would be mean for now, no one could be would be able to follow this and implemented, which is kind of what we what we intend here. Okay. Next slide, please? Thank you any comments. So so again just a question. Where where is this in terms of merge requests or text? Texas is there. Type in merger us. It's in a merger a number of just. Not merged. Okay. You don't have a number in your head? I figured go back So so we have text for this as merger myself. We don't seem to have any comments on it now. It seems like, you know, reducing that danger of a dangerous implement, so that seems like sensible security considerations text."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "And again, this would be one of the things we're proposing that the editors merge and apply any editorial that because changes native. No. If anyone is super sad by the stats, speak up, but verify what you want done differently it's wrong Okay. So I'm not seeing any objections. I think we'll indicate the meeting seems happy to go ahead and do that. So thank you Marco. Thank you. Nice. That's all of our first stuff is. Yep Great. Okay. So that's all the crypto refresh May changes happened changes in works. And again, our proposal is that Paul D g will spend a couple of weeks executing those changes and tit up the various bits of editorial change that Are get found in the meantime. Bring up back to the produces zero nine Two zero nine we let the working group have a few days to hit Sanity check zero nine. And then hit publication request and the declare victory on the working group last call. So that's our plan. Does anybody have a comment on that bat or an objection if you support the plan, there's no need to comment, but if if anybody has an objection or a concern, now is the time to express us. You can support the fan in the chat if you want to Yeah. We we we don't you into the time for some out discussions. Not hearing this. We'll take it that that's the plan and hopefully D and Paul will get some time of that. And then we were going to just have some updates on the interoperability. And then returning. So That's the Sop one first. Great. So Daniel again, So We want to not just produce a new draft. We want to produce a new draft with implementations that work. And the interoperability test suite"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "depends on this status open Pg command line interface. To work it and I wanted to mention just to highlight a couple of things that have been updated with that. That will make it a little bit easier to test the new features. So next slide, please. This is background about what the status command line interface is. It's called Sa the statement for stateless Open Dg. I'm gonna skip over this at the moment in interest of time. It's a command line interface. It you can do things like this. And everybody who implements it and then have their tools be tested against each other. So it's we're using it for inter interrupt. What's added that we'll that's useful for this draft is a profile option. To both the generate key sub command and the encrypt sub command. If you're an implement, we hope that you will implement this because it will make a test suite better able to do interrupt testing with the different versions that have been out there. So we have The best idea is you say generate key and you specify the name of the draft that you're using. And you can implement you can just define the different profiles that your version of Sop supports, and it will follow it should follow the standard that that the user has specified this is just for generate key and for encrypt. The other things don't need any profiles. They should just work based on the objects that they're dealing with. So generate key says I want one that looks like A crypto refresh key versus, like, a forty eight eighty key, And in Encrypt says, for example, when I'm using a password, To to symmetric key encryption should I be using the Version two? Or should I be using some something else. You can choose if the user doesn't provided profile, you can choose what you want your default to be. But we wanna be able to to tell stop implementation, please exercise you know, yours your your generating side"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:00",
    "text": "of the code that follows these particular drafts. So this is just a to to ease testing of inter. Next slide. So these profile names should mean what they say? There's a little bit of subtlety with south encrypt you can read the draft to see what subtlety is in particular, it deals, you know, if you say encrypt using this fancy new stuff, but you're only encrypting two that client doesn't support any fancy new stuff, you should probably obey what the key preferences. Say. If you wanna talk with crazy name spaces crazy profile for yourself that gives you extra special features. You can do that too. So you can tell people, hey, check this thing out. I can generate this. The names for the feature for the profiles is sort of like, the Open Bg notation names space. Next slide. And you can inter a supplementation and say what profiles do you support? And it will tell you So you say stop list profiles for the sub command care about it and it'll tell you this is an example where cell implementation says I support forty eight eighty. Support the crypto refresh eight and I support my own wacky feature. Please don't do more than four, keep it simple, the goal of south simplicity and interoperability. Sorry. No. That's that's fine. The default stuff is details don't about it. You can also announce the version of the vacation that your self implementation supports. This is trying to make things a little bit more forward compatible, so we can add new features to stop and test test better. You need to do this yet? Start the profiles if you if you haven't added this to your yourself implementation. Yep. Next. What's it? That's it? Great. So next we have a report from Yous who is running the interoperability test suite, which tests Users can tell us how many implementation tests. Uses? Can you pick up Hello. I'm yes Center. Next slide please?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:04",
    "text": "So I've been running the intel test suite since twenty nineteen. Has been couple of years. But now, we have around a hundred seventeen tests and I guess, around thirteen hundred test. And by testing, I think ten different implementations. That they are not all different some of of families like we are testing three versions of new, for example, I think it has been very very successful, so it improved. A lot of implementations and improve the our understanding of the ecosystem and very implementation slack guidance. And this has been, I think, valuable feedback for the working group. And I think one of the more successful parts of it is it's spin off be the stateless open P p? Protocol. I don't know what the p actually stands for. So I'm very very happy about that. Next slide please. In terms of testing the the crypto refresh, not a lot has happened. But we do include the test vectors from the draft. And if you go to the main test results, the test are included in the and in all the test. But currently, we run only the release versions of implementations. And so far, They don't support a lot of the the crypto refresh. I have made a special result page if you go to the the address and then add slash v six Hmo, you only see the subset of the test that use these six features. And I'm thinking that if people come to me and say, you know, we have a broken progress implementation that's here."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "Is how you can build it, then I will include it in and this set of tests. And if we look at the right, currently, the only kind of implemented v six feature is and p painless, which is implementation based on bounce castle. And what they do implement is argo two. In before. And the before context. Next slide please. So if you wanna help, that that would be great. You can suggest tests, write tests, and guess review tests and test results. That's a lot of work actually. You can help with the development and maintenance of the test suite itself. If you have an open Implementation want to get it in. Please do implement sup. It's not a big interface to implement, tell me how to build it. And keep it up to date? Implement the new profile? And the the easiest way to get the implementation to be is to get it into debbie. Alright. That's it from you. Thank you. Thanks this is fine. Thanks for running. That will start to accumulate as the as we get through towards It and North and so. Krishna. Okay. Okay. So that's our crypto refresh Segment done Session. Drop sessions. So we're now in the slightly optimistic thinking about recharging even though we haven't hit that publication request yet. We wanna do this off the agenda initially or I think let's do daniel submitted some slides. And then we'll start with those. Well, you so we have twenty five minutes in total. Right. So Daniel how how much are you expecting up with your side."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "But but let's... Do we have a list that has, like, everything in the list just initially? Let me to go into download slides. Okay. Where is that list to the agenda? So Okay. So I should share the So bear with me one second. That Okay. That's there. So I can just screen share. Hopefully, I'm sharing the same right window. Okay. So we just in our text agenda, we had basically posted the list charging topics. Can probably make that a bit bigger for people? And this, I think is the list that's accumulated from a from males list and we we send out a a request to people to send me to the chairs. There there's a couple of them again that way. As a few of them came as issues from Git lab. So given that we have like, twenty minutes or so. What's the best way you're doing this? Let's just go down from the top, I guess. Right. Okay. That's... Yeah. We might we won't finish this today, but I we would be useful to get a sense of thinks which are most important. So if you think One of these is the most important, feel free to jump in queue. Otherwise, we'll just Proceed. Yes. Have a nice area. Yeah. I'm I might suggest, like sprints of some sort like these would be the things that are first, these are the things that could cut happen next, I mean, maybe just two categories. Yeah. Sure. Yeah. So yeah. If you're if you're"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:03",
    "text": "commenting on that list, then... Yeah, please. Say what is your top two things? Or something like that. I presume A lot of people are keen, I'm doing something about pros quantum I we don't need to decide what precisely you that? There is actually a draft right now. That is proposed, that the work group can't currently it adopt because it's not in charter. And but I think there is, you know, there is definitely interesting in work there. There's a links. If you take a look at this agenda online, you can find links to all of these topics try to make sure there was a link for everything. Almost everything has a link there. So automatic forwarding is coordinated slides from Daniel. Yes. Oh I believe it's in sides as well. Yeah. Just skip that one momentarily. Yeah. This... So Keys proceeded is a way to indicate that you I've upgraded your key and switched to a new key. It's a relatively simple signaling mechanism. There's an issue in git lab about it. That's something that the that the working group could decide to include, and it's in it's topics there's a way to facilitate transition to the new to the new material? So this block is probably covered in various slides. It is. Okay. I'll just mention these other ones briefly. I know that there's a number who are sad that the designated revoke is d. In particular, Phil Zimmerman particularly wants to see a functional designated revoke. We d it because it is a gross fingerprint thing that doesn't actually get you the broker key. There's actually a already text that describes how to do this. It would be pretty simple to do. User Id clarifications is basically the user Ids the draft has said for years that user id ids are email addresses, but they're not Says thereby convention that, but actually, the convention is different. If you do a survey of what user these are out there, They are not c twenty eight twenty two male addresses. So a clarification of that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "could potentially be in charter. This first party attest station for third party certifications. So that's a way that if I have a open Pg certificate, anybody can, of course search certify my user Id on it. But I may not want every single person in the world to certify my user Id because my certificate will get very large. This is a flooding attack that's been known on the key servers. One way around that is to have this first party just... Attest third party certifications so that when you distribute a certificate only the things the key holder wants distributed with it, go with it. It's a way to to par down the the flooding attack while allowing third party or certifications to be distributed. So let's try to help the key servers. That could be in contact in scope. So so I just typed into the chat and for people in the room please join the queue if you're if you'd like to comment or or on these on items on this list, because we have a little the time in around we'd love get feedback on that on this. So Join the queue if you have opinions, don't know if we have time for Daniel's presentation in fact, because I'm I'm gonna try to blow through these so that we have room for daniels the the the last ones that are listed here. They're all marked Ekg because I'm mentioning them, but I'm I often pulled them out of existing merge requests or or other places? Sure. I'm I'm I'm suggesting maybe that would we we let time speak to this list. Try and get more feedback as opposed to sure slides. Okay Just as and he's... Sorry, Daniel, I think it might be better use of our time. We can will come back to this, Yeah. But yeah. So he's joined queue with you. I'm not seeing anybody joining in the queue. So if you don't wanna recharge, then. That's fine. If you wanna reach out see and in the queue now. Alright. So that's on your finishes list through and be joining the queue. Right now to get in there. So there's a bunch of proposals for tweaks to the web of trust. That is the Open D network of identity certifications that involve things like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:04",
    "text": "regular expression packets and trust signatures and validation constraints and sub keys that can certify other keys we could move the... We could move stop into the working group. It's current. I'm currently maintaining it as an individual draft that is not aiming for Our status. But if the group that there are if the working group wants out that they could, The thing that far correct published that says, hey, watch out for session session key reuse, you need guidance for that. We have no guidance. So the working group could decide try to take on some guidance for how to do that safely with email, maybe a signaling mechanism, maybe other guidance. And then Currently, I don't think you can use v six in Pg mine. Because you need to include something in the in the multi part signed for multi part signed. Messages. So we would need to modify that. So Daniel, do you wanna just touch... Give us, like, two minutes on on the list of items that that have your name on unlimited on this list. Are you one minute better Sure. So so first of all, I I do agree that's you see should be the the top priority actually, But then so I I think automatic forwarding also, is isn't an important an interesting topic. And then long terms mat keys as well, I think would be very useful for encrypting data that's, you know, only for yourself. Send messages drafts and one and would see also help with the the B efforts since symmetric crypto you know, less susceptible So I I think among the the topics that's have my name on it"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:14:02",
    "text": "I would say long term symmetric cases higher priority ones perhaps one of the the Then the main separation is a is a fairly small thing. To lines signatures and encrypted messages to a specific context like a specific application or in the case of email or specific email thread or something like that that I also think is quite important. And then for secrecy has has been in topic for a while, it's... I think it's still an open question when we need to something specific like double ratchet or use existing mechanisms like short term keys, and then we can also use this metric keys. For that. Then key verification is the topic that's repeatedly came up also in the design team and we want to have something better than verifying fingerprints manually, obviously, so Well, we we've presented on key transparency before and they're there was also a this morning about it So I think long long term that might be interesting. To to look at that or something simpler like you know, using qr codes to verify keys Would I think be interesting? To do at. As well. Great. So so again, it did test the time and to get kind of more but more feedback. I think we can take it as red that we will be discussing what to do a about post quantum recovery? So unless you oppose doing work that, there's really no need to to to to speak on that topic. Now, we will revisit it."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:16:01",
    "text": "I I would that we will at least talk about recharging to do something with fingerprints. Because we've talked about it often. So again, we probably don't need to spend on of that now. So Again, if you jump in the queue please, if you have other of these are things that are not on here that you think should be part of charter. So And and again, keep jumping in the queue we run at a time, and we currently have justice. So I'd like to add to the list first. We we want the way to share certificates between implementations preferably you also share trust routes so that implementations different implementations on the same machine. Can make consistent decisions and share certificates like that is done for different tls, for example. Okay. Great. Hey so if I get if I could bothered our note taker try capture most more less than pretty great. Is there an existing issue on that justice or Well, we we started writing a draft and are happy to to update that and bring that in. Fantastic. So so yeah, if you could if you have... If you're happy to write a drive to the next number of, you know, weeks or or there thereabouts? Then that certainly sounds like a topic that people would be interested in looking at. From you? Yes. Second. I would like to see semantics discussed and harmon for example, what does the mean for a signature to be developed? No in relation for example to the to the issuing certificates. K. Is there is there a a draft That that looks like this will be it'll be easier to discuss something if we can see an example of of what kind of what the shape of is. Right."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:02",
    "text": "I don't think that has been written down. I don't know. Okay. So so would it be possible to kinda create issue in the git lab for that, but is that the right way to take it for now? Excellent. Thank you. Yeah. I can do that. Okay? So Oh we I worked are we getting feedback there that this list marginal of the couple of editions that just suggests is a super set of what we might wanna do. So no. I I I asked the wrong question, sure. Sorry. I should Is it wrong to say that this list plus justice as two editions is a super set of what we don't want to do. If that's a wrong statement, then Please let us know. So generally, I mean, again, we you know, we might discover a bit more as we go. It looks like what we need to do then is figure out what we mean by post quantum crypto for this. And there is a draft to the link there last of that page of this agenda. The other ones I think are pretty concrete except for fingerprints. Because I think there's lots of ideas about fingerprints. But I'm not sure I've ever heard somebody confidently saying they know the right answer. Perhaps you're best to magnus. So also the he super proceeded, I think we had a concrete proposal, but that's definitely not the only way we can go. So basically, there could be also some solutions onto the key distribution later. As w k or is of digital period org. And that also has to do with fingerprint fingerprints because we want to refer to new team. What is it? So I think that is also very open. Even so there is a complete proposal. So you mentioned W. I think something like I'm good is is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:20:01",
    "text": "is something you would want to consider in the in the super set of That's You gonna say no? Yes. Side yeah. I mean on on one hand, I would like to see it. On the other hand, I think thirties and the things that I would like to work more on. So I I don't want... I would like to see. I don't want to pull up there for it. Okay. So that's that that's that's the kind of useful of information we we want to I I guess also play in play there is that that this the key trans both happened here today. I wasn't at the end of that. Is it your bathroom from? You can probably tell us what happened. This was a non working reporting box, so we talked about the Kt concept. We got to the play where we felt like there's general agreement that we understood what the problem was there interest in the It after to work on it, we had folks willing to work on the and we agreed in broad strokes for on a number of the design principles, but you know, we need to talk about some others. So the answer is we're gonna make a charter could grind it out in the concrete and see where where we are and what we need to do to to talk more about that chart. And and would it be your sense that you the out of of this working group and that charter process, they're gonna be overlapping right. Assuming that we reach out this one. Oh, yeah. In terms of timing. Sure. Okay. And then so so it's a thing for people to do would be just consider of is there anything on this list that might be you might prefer it to be handled in coupons or have something in common with few counts or no. I'd have to look at some of the details I mean, no nothing kinda jumps out of me like, oh, no. We gotta make sure we don't do that. I I think we just work in parallel. Because part of, I just don't know where we're gonna end up of a scope for key tran. Right. And if we're even gonna find consensus taking before. Oh sure. Yeah. We don't know. But I think at least the fingerprint printing stuff."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:22:05",
    "text": "It's got... We can yeah I add another standard. Yeah. I I mean, honestly, like, I think we should just move forward kind of here and you know, we'll will be kind of sensitive to, you know, keep for tran about this. I mean we have momentum. I I wanna do nothing to stop them into I've got of good ideas here. Okay. Just us But also other rep of trust semantics. So currently, the the spec gives us mechanisms to to implement the map of trust, but the S semantics has have been left to to implementations to figure out and P p and Lp are notable examples of implementations. And we have another one and be also spec that details you know, gets concrete guidance for and semantics. And that could all be a topic of interest for the bank group. K. Thank you. Quickly back to the key trends. I think that keep transparency that at least the process we're designing we're actually deploying right now is very much in line with what was presented this morning at at the above. So I would consider that at least that parts should be should be like, grouped up. So if the both actually ends up, charter something. Significant, we should probably wait for them to produce something before we redo the same work, you know, because you can Yeah. If we again, I don't know kind of the details of what we're kind of thinking about here. I like the idea of coming up with the whiskey log, this one is kinda set aside recognizing that it's special because we have the equity consideration for for the work group. And, you know, we can figure out where to do the work between the two. Great. Sorry. Pre we forward with key trains. We're in optimistic mode man."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:01",
    "text": "Okay. Thanks, adam. Daniel? Yeah. Just since since you mentioned The Kd I thought I say that since it's something that's being used and we also deployed both serving and looking up keys under eighty then even though I think the It's mostly done. I mean, there's some some new things we could do. But indeed it might be valuable to to at least have it as a a formal Rf at some point. Okay. K. Okay. I think that we've drained the queue on that is great. So I guess the probably the right thing that it seems to do is Let's get that publication or requested button hit, the crypto refresh. And the day after we do that, we'll you know, have a beverage and then probably start to schedule a call to look as turning these set of lists into a possible draft charter that we can suggest for katherine? And Roman is done there. So I'm guessing that he's kind more less happy that we hit publication Request and then into the process of retiring. So he's nodding to say yes. That's good. That would probably be, you know, again, optimistic? If we get that publication request put hit in the next couple of weeks. Or shortly there thereafter. That be setting up a call to talk to discuss charter topics and Probably some... We we... I guess we really defined somebody to write it. Zero zero got charter. Right? Admin Git lab Repo has the current working group return. So somebody wants to take a stab editing that."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:26:00",
    "text": "Good We could start that way. Okay. So so the day after we hit publication request, Jurors will start telling people. Here's a piece... Here's the place to go to suggest your text in good lab. On the admin Recall, which I can't remember any more details because it exists I'm punch. Right. Yep And then we'll we organize call where we can discuss some more detail There's a bunch of... As I say if you're If this is of interest, then, lots of links there in the agenda for this session. Please have have a look at them when as just as you get time. Consider which ones that you'd be more interested in working on, which one's you know, you you... As I said, you know, you might like but are not gonna devote cycles too. And we can kinda go from there, I think. If you really wanna demonstrate interest in your favorite one of these returning topics nearest way to do that is true. Right draft an individual draft right now. So you can explain to people. This is the thing that I wanna see happen. And I have demonstrated that I'm doing the work it to to that's it. Right? And then I guess we'll we'll we'll talk to Rowan, I guess you it might make sense to try win window this list in various ways or to just pick the top couple off the list and then propose that and as a chatter item and see how we get on. We talked to our our director about what looks like a good way forward in terms of going from the list of people's ideas and interests to, you know, what might get approved by the. I think that's the end of our agenda. With three minutes spare. With three minutes to spare. So if anybody has anything more I wants join I don't see it. So thank you all. We're almost there. Rowan left? I know we haven't hit public but hopefully we'll we'll hit it before we see each other person. I actually wanna applaud the working room. I mean, we we tried it, we've reopened we've kinda very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:28:02",
    "text": "struck gates about what what we needed to finish and nothing else was happening. I really kind wanna compliment the group how it's work together to kinda to get us to the finish line and I'm really excited. We're talking about for the kind of evolution. I mean, this is a critical piece of technology for us. So, you know, really kind of kudos and thanks for all the hard work. You. Thanks for your help helping us all way. Okay. Great. Thanks folks. Be in touch on the benefits and thanks to a minute take. And I guess what the It's a coffee break now. So go get cookies. Yes. Thank you."
  }
]
