[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:05",
    "text": "Okay. Let's start. Oh, I want to welcome to the joint ops area and the ops AWS meeting not well. Please make sure you understand those important legal issues. Basically, all your contributions to IETF, including your video, audio presentations, need to follow the the IT of rules, And, here, you can find some, meeting tips, and the the in person participant Please make sure to sign into the session. And please use Metako. To join my queue and the participants in show hands of, shows of hands. And for both in person, participants and the remote participants, please keep your audio and video off. And here are some resources for IETF 119 you can find the agenda. The medical usage. And also the, technical assistance. Now we come to the first session welcome to the off-site WIG. It's chaired by, Joe, chairan, the Hank And, Before we start, we need a job scraper and a minutes taker. Is there any volunteer Yeah. Rob. Got Rob for the mistake. Thank you. Oh, the okay. That's Go next. Now the, working group status. Since last meeting, we published the 3 offices and that and that Congratulations to the authors and the contributors. And then we have one draft in the RFCQ, hopefully,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "it will be published very soon. And we also submitted the mod series, to ISG for publication And now we have 14 working group drafts. All of them are irredible, and we encourage you to review and the comments. And we also rung cover adoption in offset WG for the instance, young model, And then It's, dispatched tool. An MLP working group. Anything to add. Just for all the presenters today, please be on time. We have a very abbreviated 1 a half hours, and we need to we have a lot of sessions presenting. Yeah. And here is the, obviously, double your agenda, and the unions, as you can see, we have work pactagenda. So Yes. The speakers, please keep your time. Thank you. Any agenda passion, if no, I think that we can start the presentation. The first one Matt, please. Smith here. I don't see He was in, in some of the when you go. Then maybe we'll go next to save time. Yeah. I'll come back to med, I guess He's also doing simple fixes, so data manifest. Yep. So And this? Hello?"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "Yeah. So This is an update about the the data manifest. So, next slide, please. So to record quickly, the the gold is to be able to some data was corrected And, notably, what was the what was the source device? What was the information, the the the context at the time of, of correction. So I think we can go to the next slide. So the typical example is we receive, value at some point and, we don't we don't have, enough we don't have any value after this point, after 31, and, We want to understand, if it's, normal or not, basically, and this This is the, so this is the the the idea of this draft is to be able to interpret this this the fact that we don't have any value or that we have value after a long time. It might be because there is a bug or it might be just because for instance, the configuration was set to, unchanged. And so we don't have any new that approach because there was simply no change in the system. So this is the This is the kind of information that we want to have, in the system. In order to be able to analyze the data. And to understand, what's what's going on with the with the data. So, next slide, please. So the proposal is 2 young models. So there is one which is the platform manifest, which is about the information of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "the platform producing the data. Notably the model, the vendor, and so on. And also the the young catalog. So the idea is that if there is a you are big. Specific to that platform, we should be able to capture it at the and the next part is the data collection manifest, which is more about the collection of a particular, time series, And for this, that a correction is all the, the configuration of the telemetry correction that is, that is part of it. So the, the idea is that this, data manifests and platform manifests are stored with the data. And so whenever we access the data, we should always be able to access to correspondingly manifests. Next day, please. So the changes, we there was a main of changes notably clarifying that, we are speaking about, network or controller event modules. So not something that is specific to a device. And another thing that we did is to align the example that we have for storing into a TSDB. So the part about keeping the data benefits along with the data. So we aligned it to the notation from, this draft, about the young label TSB. And this so, basically, this is the based on the feedback from, from Jan and and I think it's, it's better that way. Even if there are still some, open issue with that, for instance, in this, way of storing data into the case DB, we need to on our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:03",
    "text": "to handle the fact that the value can be deleted but so, yeah, these are the main changes next day, please. So, the next steps for this, for this draft are to work on the young modeling issue. So, basically, we proposed the draft, that is called So the name of the draft is full include, but I think it would change to full embed And, there is a presentation in Netmo on Thursday, and the ID is to basically enable the inclusion of, particular module inside the tree of a mosaic module. And, another part that we have to look into is to align with the Did after, Jan, which is called Philatelist about the telemetry. Next slide, please. So there are still some points about, meeting the link for the for the platform ID. So I think this we we need to do something about that. And the last John is, if there is some fingers, then what is currently included that should be part of the of the data manifests. And I think that's all for me. So if you have any questions, well, people are thinking about questions. On your plan, Jean, Here, I'm gonna go back one. Speaking as as chair, if you intend to,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:04",
    "text": "add a normative reference to this draft. What if that draft is not, progressed. I I see it's gonna be presented in that model. I'll be there. As as just a a participant, what what would be your plan if if that work isn't going to move forward. So in in that case, I guess we'll have to to do with the copy pasted version. And maybe we'll have to We'll have to adjust it a little bit better because in that if we don't reuse it, we can, change it a little bit So but, I, I don't see, Yeah. Basically, it will be to input the information that is already in this in this existing device to that module, at, at the inside this network level module. And using, maybe we can do a little bit of lifting so that's We don't have exactly the same thing, but yeah, basically, the the plan would be to to come up with, with with, the same information in a, in a new module Jan. Thank you. Yeah. I just wanna say I'm very much looking forward to merging this works in some way aligning them in a good way. And the, regarding this full include or full embed. I definitely see the same problem. I'm also concerned with the timelines just like Joe mentioned now, but I have stumbled on the same issue. Thank you. Hopefully, that could be some impetus for that other work. So thank you. With that, there's no more in the queue. I think we can move on. Thank you, Jean. Thanks."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "Back to you, med. You get the 15 combined. So thank you. So this will be, I would say, at a bit of the, the work we are doing on the attachment circuits. So as a reminder, we have 4 drafts in the, in the in that set. We start with the, with the common, with the common specifications. So we received the, the young doctor's review, which is really, there was no major issue at risk in that review, only very, very minor ones. So we, we we did a new version to what is that that that review And we also made, I would say, one addition just to handle one requirement received from the, from one of the, contributors about for the attachment circuit at the network level is to for the customization of the, negotiation of the BGP capabilities. So we just added the, a provision for, the notices for that. Other than the, let's say, these modifications, we made recently on the and, specifications, but there is no pending issue for this one. The next one on the on the list we have is the, attachment circuit as a service. And the bearer of the service. So for this one, we received the young review, for it and also the, route, routing their director review nothing, major to, just spot on, on this. Only very, editorial ones and, manner, manner aspects. And we did also say just to give you, some some of the point that we, or the changes we, we we made recently on the on the specifications. It's basically adding some support, for example, for the lack for the bearer support for some hierarchy in, in the way we are, I would say, in the information between various barriers because, it depends on complex configuration. So we, we we we had there is a need to support this kind of of ERT. Now we also support"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:03",
    "text": "time securitizations, at least to, to expose that a bearer is, capable, I would say enable temp synchronization at the physical layer. This is a requirement we see from the people who are, in the, in the. So we have this supported right now in the Bureau service. For the management sector, the service, yeah, we meet also some modifications mainly to explore the services that are bound I give an attachment circuit. So if, for example, you know, you you need to modify the attachment circuit you need to you you will have, I would say, an information about the implication on the impact on the services that are built in it. We added also support for, the parent attachment secrets. So this is to cover also some complex cases. For example, if you have check with other 3 and you have a a a switch in between of them, and you want you don't want to repeat the information about layer 2 in in your, I would say, attachments secret. You can just iterate from for for the parent 1, and then you you are that. We also support the, the feasibility checks. So if this model is used outside discount, There are some, I would say, requirements that before you request the actual activation of the service you want first to check if the service is is is available and then once we have this information, then you can you can request that. So that's what we call the feasibility checks. So We have an explicit support for it right now in the attachment circuit and also the the bear. So all the technical issues we have for this specification are now are now closed. We have just two items that we would like to include in the next iteration of the draft. Just to add more more examples to, to illustrate some of the, complex cases, the one about the, dynamic. For example, if you have a And in in, in a cloud, for example, you have multiple network functions and with dynamic assignment of IP addresses, and you don't want to explore its complexity into your service, service,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "we will show how how to do it with the current model that we have. So The example is is ready, and we will integrate it into the next iteration of the of the specification. So no other, issue, on on this for the network for the network model itself, again, we received the review from Martin on it. So no major issue again. Only very few fixes just to fix some, the way we are referencing some lifts. So we, edited the, we released the, the versions to, to already distribute and we also made some, I would say, minor modifications on the, on the on the on the certifications, basically on on the way we are structuring Detasmacyquid, in the previous version I presented here in ops and working group, we have we have the, the attachments take way that are bound directly into this app but because the staffs are also index per service, the SIM attached to the separates and we have very multiple, in multiple immachible steps. And we found that that one is is suboptimal in in 10 more if I would say compactness off the, of the model. So we just changed it in the other way around. Does that mean that we, the list of attachment circuits are directly attached to the node and then we have at the on their app, we just reference the one that are applicable to that step. So one attachment sequence is just created once, and then you graph it the appropriate step as a function of the service you are you you are using. And then we added this, the BGP, the customized BGP capability support for it. So for some of the customers, you don't have to to support, for example, a medical path And this is can be requested in the service itself, and this is not part of your default integration then you you can, with this model, you can, you you can control we don't have any, independent issues so far for this this one. The last one in the set is the, what we call the glue It's how we, we augmented the the various VPN models there, the layer to SM, LTSM, it train them, and it train them, that you can reuse attachment circuits"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:04",
    "text": "so this one, we received the the young to review. No issues so far for it. And we have no, we are just really, really to to move, to move forward. So in summary, we think that we, we are almost ready for, for the full documents the, the 2 missing examples that we are planning to add into the attachment service So we we'll add those We're still, waiting for, the routing director reviews. So thank you, channel for, running that. But we, 3 of them are not received. So we will wait for, some few weeks and then if there's no, I would say, new news from the, RTG. And then once we released a new version, the, proposal for the working group is to work last called the, the set of documents. So don't know if there are any, questions or comments on the, test management service. Conviction wants Do you oh, these are the appendix. Okay? Yeah. Yeah. So this is for APVX. Normally, Benwise, it's up to you. Okay. So this is the update of the, the various sets of the, of the IPVX we have there, we, The documents were, in the working plus call in here in the ops app, but also in various got TCPM, it is Vivo Group 6 man and APVX. And we received them all, all the, their expert reviews. So and all of those were already addressed. And we also added the, the Chifford review from Thomas, the tax to Thomas. Just to give you, I would say, an updated off some main changes we made, during the, as part of the working class, all we used to have an update"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:03",
    "text": "of the description of 2, the TCP and the ipv6 session headers in the, in in in the simple IP, IP fix fixes, but we just remove them as an outcome of the discussion we had during the working class. Because people think that it's more cleaner just we, duplicate them. In beginning, we don't want to, to do that because we are we were not sure about the, the, I would say, the implementation of the deployments. But then we, been contacted say, and, I don't remember the name the guy who would share with us the, all the traces about the, check-in with all the, information elements for incremental, not met anyway. The, it it happens that those are not implemented. So if we deploy then there is no, new implications on it. So that's why we just removed the free there from the simple, simple, specifications and we also receive that comment why we are not updating the, the base artifacts This is basically because the, registry is the authoritative source for it and not the RTS setup. We clarified all of this in the in the document and then various, editorial changes just to, enhance the reducible document. So in the, TCP and ipv66 session headers. So, as I mentioned in the, before the previous slide, just depreciate formally the, the these 2, information element there. And we defined a new abstract that attacked to cover the slacks that are encoded into, into 150, 56. So this will be applicable for the TCP options in the UAE and also for, for the UDP staff, We changed the way we we are doing the encoding for some of the use. This is okay, man. We received from, from from Paul. So we are using the septum plates for, for first right now. And so then we, because we are using that template,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "we introduce new information elements that will be the, the the simple one, and then we will glue them with the, with with the list. We received a comment from the dispute review about how implementation, it identifies the, the shared experimental ID and anticipate options, because you you you know not all the, experimental HTTP options has an criminal IDs. So we need something to, to tell the implementation how to, to, to identify that. We had the appropriate text agreed with with with with this and we include in the, in the spectrum. For the UDP, for the UDP options, yeah, basically, it mentions the during the working class policy to use this new drug data types. So it's there. We are just referring to the, this discussion about the TCP and the accession headers, and we are just using using there. There's one comment that we from Paul. He, he's complained that we, for the use of the Okta is that he want that will be better to define another abstract at the time to, for, I would say, for the set of the, 2 updates or 4 updates. But for us, we think that's It it doesn't yeah. Purely for a purist, we can we can define this kind new abstract tie, but we don't think that it is worth to to be done for it because if you interpret the way the, the R is defined in the current RFC. It's it's anyway, it's It's up to the implementer of the, information element to, I would say, to parse it and to know have exact number of focus are if included on it. So we we didn't meet any, modifications for that part, for the various specifications, we send the out at least the, our way of, whether we, we don't want to, to, we don't see any value in the way the change says last January, but there is no follow-up since then. So we think it has there's no, push for for for that. So,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "at least for our side, we think that this is, an, an, this is not this is an issue which is close so far. So for the next steps, yeah, we, we think that's all the version that are currently available on the tracker are are ready and address all the, reviews from the director at UND, working with last call. Multiple the one that I mentioned, previously, and the, the chief road write up are also ready on that record. I think that's via our, ready to move forward for this one. As the chair that kicked this off. First of all, Thomas, How are you? Thank you. For taking this. Simple fixes is probably not the right name for all this. Was it On that last issue, if you could go back Did you document that in the shepherd write up? There there this was a little roughness in in the discussion here. Should did. Oh, it didn't hand, so please name and whatnot Thomas Koff. Yes. I, updated the Shepard reviews. So, also in terms of, the data type. So should be everything. Thanks. Yeah. Thank you. We'll move forward. And this was our only one and only exception we made today if you want to go to the mic, you must use the tool scan the AQR code, please. Not No. You. Okay. Oh, not this slide. Oh, yes. Sorry. I that, Joe. We went out of order. I'm sorry. K. Yep. So hello, everyone. My name is Tuvan, and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:00",
    "text": "on behalf of the authors, I would like to present the update of this draft So at the time of last IETF meeting, we still have a couple of open issues cracked at the GitHub repo. And over the past few months, the authors worked, really hard to resolve these open issues. Like, we, need to emphasize what hardware ramifications might exist and auto operational trade offs, when would consider, to, use this group best SL policy. Now the current version of the draft has had added a new section for implementation considerations to clarify that this and point group best as their model can be implemented in different ways. And if, the implementations needs the policy enforcement point to be group aware, then there is some dedicated hardware and software, support might need to might need be needed. And also, the implementations needed to evaluate the operational trade off very carefully, which, includes the flexibility brought to the network versus the complexity of implementation, to, if to use this, Google best as their model. And we also add the rationale for endpoint group ID defined as a string instead of an integer, so that we sync it so that it could be, accommodate the deployments, which require more some identification hierarchy and such a hierarchy could be helpful to ease some coordination within the administrative domain. And we also clarify the mapping of the endpoint group string to the ID integer is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "now out of the scope. And we define the application group now as the another endpoint group type in a the user group and device group. And this application group, it refers to a collection of applications that share common access control policies. And now we have listed the endpoint group's definition under the SLC containers instead of the, SLC list we believe that this endpoint group should be independent of given SDR entry And now we have defined the endpoint group type as identity rep for the accessibility instead of using the art. The, I think it's the choice case for each, definition. And the last update is that we have reflected the recent updates of the Schedule Young Debt model, which is separated from this draft now because of the wide applicability of this scheduling itself. So this, slide gives the current module design. So generally, we have 3 parts of this, UCR model, the first part is the endpoint group definition under the SDR containers. This for this definition, we have defined the endpoint group list with the most necessary group ID and the type is defined here. And then we, augmented the March container to allow the, sauce and slash our destination group ID to be allowed to, as one of the matching criteria. And the third part is, we add some scheduling related parameters to allow this each access control entry to be a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "activated based on a scheduled time. So to kind of schedules are used when it's, period time and another is a recurrence rule. So this groupings, we use it directly from the schedule young data model separated from this draft. And for the next steps, the authors would like to request the working group to review the document updates and provide your feedback and we will also continuously, align with the schedule down that module in that individual draft. And until it's stable. And then after the the authors believe it might be ready for working group last Okay. That's it. If there are any comments or questions, I have a question because this it seems it has dependency on the schedule young model. But, sir, the scatter young model is still individual how you could move it to last call. So I mean, we need to wait till that drop be adopted and ready for working group last call at least I mean, finally, they need to be published together, like, So there is there is dependence, right, but we don't want, to be too slow. So we hope to move that draft as quickly as possible. So this is Hankus, IOTF victim. I've seen a daft that I work on being in a cluster for two and a half years. And, the we have an RFC ed, and the module that we're working were changed so much that it's not an editorial change more. Anymore. I I don't even know that we can stay in RFC yet. So"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "So alignment is, something that you want to do before. You end up in in a cluster, I guess. So I think that, some talk to the schedule people and, make them run. Thank you. Okay. So that that I think we can move to the next presentation, which is talk about this schedule work. Okay. So, for this work. The, as the IETF when I add the authors of, different drops that are related to the scheduling had a side meeting to discuss how the scheduling, work should be down to, fit the various requirements. So now based on that, the outcome of the side meeting the authors have updated the draft, to, reflect the outcome now we have defined the different versions of the recurrence related groupings. For the sake of modularity. So from simple to comprehensive definitions of recurrence. And we define the features to allow for different implementation options. And we also add the sample modules exemplify how the feature modules can use or extend this schedule young data module So now we have a wide use of this scheduling, drop to now. So in addition to the UCR work I presented earlier, we, have the scheduling OEM test work, work, led by Luis, I believe, to implement the on demand network diagnosis using OEM test in a precise period of time, based on a recurrence rule And we do you have another work from the TBR Working Group"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "the TVR schedule young to, implement the scheduler network resources and topologies changed in a time variant to routing systems. So since the, we we also received some comments from Luis of this and the document also incorporates the some of the into the latest revision. And we now add a generic schedule parameters defined to, validate the requested schedules. And add the schedule status grouping for the scheduling management or scheduling status exposure. And there are some other comments as to, open for discussion. So if you are interested, feel free to share your comments and suggestions. And we also seek the cross working group reviews, we put the document up debt to TVR working group, we do receive the positive feedback from TBR Working Group as well as some comments related to the examples we show in the appendix about how to use or extend this schedule young data model. Okay. So given a lot of normative dependencies of this dropped. So the authors would like to request the working group to adopt this work we believe we are now ready to move forward. Can That's it so Rob Wilson, I I'm wondering whether this is the right place for this document rather than net mod. So, I think it was chatting to Kent earlier today, and he'd mentioned that he had a draft that's very similar conditional configuration draft. About playing and that was in Net Mod previously and about how you apply configuration conditionally and and modify it at the time. I haven't had a chance to read this, but if it's it's related to that topic, and it's sort of almost like affecting more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:03",
    "text": "the core language or core behavior of yang, I think that that would be a better placed in here. Is is my gut instinct. So these are some groupings related the schedule is not related to, any, like, net count or, configurations. So just a couple of a set of groupings defined and the very initial thought for the authors to discuss it here because we have the UCR draft, separated also discussed in the ops area working group, and we also have another OIM task also discussed here. So we thought it might be, convenient for you to discuss there so that some cross working group coordination could be saved and some error could be saved. Okay. I if you can if you can present in that mod, that would be great. I don't know if there'll be time they did have sometime their gender, and that's not been filled. But it might be speaking to worth keen to see if that's an option. Shah, Yeah. Okay. Thanks. Speaking of which, I think Kent just joined the queue. Kent Watson. Yeah, sorry. There's no time at the end of the net mod session. Completely booked because of the delay tolerant networking. The draft at Rob is referring to is called conditional enablement. And in that was, basically, metadata attribute that, could be used for the inactive people talk about deactivating nodes, like commenting out notes, is useful for that, also useful for time based scheduling, forgot the 3rd use. It was so long ago. It never got We never adopted it. But it was, thoughtful. Currently, one of those three things, the inactive Part of it is under consideration we made part of core gang, language, so in that sense, maybe This could be thought of as something as core."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:03",
    "text": "As well. So to Rob's point, it's at least worth a discussion to see which worth working group is best to go to. But, Yep. Yep. Thank you. Thank you Don't tell me? Powerman. Hi. I'm Tony Lee. This is joint work with Ron Bonneka. I have 5 minutes. I can be talking really fast to keep up. Alright. What we're trying to do is to control power in routers. And, other things that are out there, we are trying to do this down to a fairly granular level. We want power consumption. We want power control. We were trying to also get 2 dependencies between between various components in the box. Those aren't captured in a lot of yang models right now, and we kinda need to know about that. We also have cases where we want to be able to tell the box what's going to happen. There are lots of optimizations that we can do inside the box if we know what traffic so first proposal Ron and I are Yang Newbies, oh, by the way, we screwed up the yang, please tell us that we will fix it. So first leaf here is a used power. This is just reports on a per component basis. How much power am I using? For an NPU, this might be 200 watts if this is for optic might be 25 watts. Kind of important, useful thing to be able to understand. Power safe. We wanna be able to turn off various components. Something's not being used, we wanna be able to turn it down and put it into a low power state. How you implement flow power is up to you. But we wanna wanna be able to turn it on and off."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:03",
    "text": "And before we do that, we want the the box to tell us that it can do this. We don't waste our time. And then we also wanna be able tell the box whether it should do its own internal automatic power management or not. This is kind of important because If things inside the box go wrong, we'd like to be able to turn it off. We have lots and lots of dependencies inside the box. We have line cards that are dependent on switch cards. And so we'd like to be able to have a yang model that tells us Okay. This line card is dependent on the switch cards. Don't turn off my switch cards if I'm still carrying traffic. The tree trap presentation is here. Maybe we got this right. We want to be able to do traffic planning. We can do lots and lots of things inside a switch fabric that, allow us to optimize the switch fabric if we know exactly how much is going to be there. If we can say for the next 30 minutes, the traffic is only gonna be 30% of capacity. We can turn off 70% of the switch. Huge savings. This is useful. But most of the fabrics will not be turned off today because people cannot anticipate their They don't know. So all the switches are on full power full time. Bad. That's it. Any questions? David Lomparter, the granularity of 1 what seems to be bit large. Was there any discussion about that? Or There has been. We point out that Open figure has already gone down this and created that leaf, and it's in what level, in open config where our customers are twisting our arm. Try not to create more complexity. I've been I know it's heresy, but I would like to see IETF and open config"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:00",
    "text": "converge. So so I'm not going to speak about open coughing and and I to have converging, but in terms of this, I think it's important work. I like I think in terms of, like, green networking things, we try to get stuff done quickly. I know that I've already chatted to you at the reception, I think we should be trying to target a bot to collect green networking related work in terms of its own focus working group. So that's my hope I won't be the AD doing it would be Mahesh, but he's, I think, he's aligned with that view. So people in the room, if you're interested in this and you think that'd be useful, go and talk Tony and say, yes, I'll help you do that. Thank you very much. We'd very much like to go down that path. If gonna happen. If not, we would like to be adopted here We did present this to Ivy, and they sent us here. Insufficient Tommy, this is, and, so think that, you know, in the in addition to the component level energy consumption monitoring, Have you considered, you know, device level, energy consumption monitoring, Yes. This this falls out. If you don't wanna do component level, you can just model at the device level. And because the component the the way that we model hardware, is recursive. You can just report at the top level and you go then end up device level monitoring and control Yeah. So also for energy, consumption, you know, you may have some capability you know, whether you support energy saving or what are, you know, energy saving method you can use? So actually, I wanna point out, you know, there's, you know, another chance that actually we you know, plan to just present in the RB working group, And then maybe, you know, overlap the way is the old job to you know, I think I may be you to discuss with your home. It's gonna be harmonized. Let's talk with the ADs and figure out where to go. Marisol relinquished to you as I wanna go last."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "Thank you. Thanks, Tony, for for this. I just wanted to mention that, to things. There is a site meeting on Thursday, Global Time, is 9 AM. We are going to discuss further on different proposals for power metrics and and inviting you, Tony, to be part of that side meeting as well. Where we have, thinking about the next steps and proiling we can have a good discussion. And the second one with regards to this component device level, And we have, a proposal And the for the for the and where we are and put in a high level on anything that that might be referred as the component device level. Collectivatives asset, and I think it 666666 really well the concept and just abstracting to which, company, we can defer, right, on the power metrics as well. Explain for use case. Thank you. Cool. Thank you. I have a actual contributor question, but I'm gonna save that for the because of time How much time, Rob, as a chair? How much time should we wait? This is not the first time that that green has been presented in opsAWG. If Tony And, Alex Marisol, if they want to ask for adoption, do we wait for something to happen before that, or do we entertain it here. You wait. You wait until there's a clear indication as to whether a gonna happen. So really that means that the proponents need to together, and and as various people will help guide this process, aiming for both, a working with forming both for 120, and that both decision would happen somewhere in between, so I guess, like, to two and a half months time, 2 months time. So at that stage, We'll get an indication. And the reason I'm not so keen for the work to come here is because it's"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:03",
    "text": "AWG, it picks up groups of different sort of work. And you don't get necessary at the same, good reviews and cross reviews across the different bits of work. So I feel like a focused working group on this and some related green networking stuff would be good, short term stuff. Is a better approach. I think you'll get a better solution and a more, a more wider of you. K. Thank you. Thank you, Tony. While I'm loading the next slides, Kent, If you're still here, Med would like you to share his, that that draft you were talking about it's fine. Okay. I'll try to be, Fast, this is an update of the draft that we have on on signatures for Jan, data provenance can be more Okay. Oh, okay. So, news, since then, We we went on discussions as It seems that there there is an agenda agreement that the, using cozy and the format of cozy that we were proposing it was sort of okay, but there was some discussions on where those signatures should appear. So at the end, we we, the the draft tends right now for different to what they have called, and closing methods. And we will go through them, later on. Data has by some restructuring of the of the of the text We in parallel have been, running some proof of concept that are quite promising, and we hope to have something to show in the hackathon in Vancouver. We have incorporated a few as well. authors That have been coming with, some contributions, mostly related to the closing methods. And, well, and, on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:03",
    "text": "Wednesday, if I remember well, we this will be introduced to NetBond as well. So in closing my thoughts, I I have classified in 2 different categories. 1 is a provenance element. First is the, the original idea that any place in a jam, in a junk scheme that you could put a reference to a to a not proven on signature. Plus the IVR that was contributed as well, it was proposed to use it as part of the, of all the, notifications inside Jan Push. So Both ways of, of using provenance are discussed in the draft plus over two ways of dealing with pronouns, signatures as metadata. Whether they are in data addressed inside jam data file or as the the if we want to make them appear as annotations. In all cases, there is you have the schemas, some of the proposal for the updates on the schemas. They are highlighted in red here and there. And, well, That has included a new or in the, in the draft, there is a new mechanism for the for discussing the different recursion issues. The idea that you can include a provenance signature that imply, impacts or is referred to a particular element or to a set of enclosing elements and is discussed where or what the implications of the full precaution has in the different format format for all the methods and for whatever the combination of those. Just to give you an example, you can have an annotation in a in an outer element that contains a list of, of, individually signed elements as a in the leaves,"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:02",
    "text": "or whatever other combination that you think of. The, This, and this is let me say, is this something that is, important. So we can have aggregation, and we can guarantee that the aggregation can, contain or is suitable for provenance validation 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, 12, And, well, we, as I said, this is going to be discussing net model as well. There was a suggestion from, our ID. I guess it was rock. Right? So I don't know. I'll be out with whatever comes out of the discussion on Net Multi I'm totally open. I mean, personally, I don't have I like this group. But I don't have any problem in going to another group to to discuss this. And, well, the immediate work to do is that there are some sections that are to be to be, this, to be discussed, and we are planning to to, continue gathering implementation experience. As I said, they are the initial results that we have are quite promising. And when once I my my idea right now. I'm taking a check on how things are evolving. It's when we have this operational, an operational demonstrator, that shows that this works and it works in a reasonable a way, to us for adoption here or whatever it is. That's all from us. We, I think we're doing okay on time, but are there any questions? You consider running a hackathon project with us? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's the plan. Okay. Once we have something that is worth showing this. Or showing or integrating at Yes. least. Alright. Okay. I'm told the role of Carlos will be played by Adrian"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "Farrell for this next presentation. Right. Yeah, so sorry Carlos is, is enjoying time in Africa and, the internet doesn't do what he wants. So you get me. Next slide, please. So We're wasting your time largely because Carlos had an idea and I forgot to say no. We are seeing a lot of, drafts, in a number of working groups and not just in this area that is the term inbound OEM and out spanned OEM, and usually in context of the draft, it's clear. That it's not consistent across documents. And we're a little worried that the in band has has no particular meaning in the context of a packet network. Additionally, some of those cases are on drawing on more precise and specific meaning. So next slide, what we want to do is, achieve clear and consistent terminology that can be applied in all future documents. We're not looking to fix RFCs that are out there even late stage drafts. And we want those terms to be precise and unvary. Next side. So this is just the starting point to call out the problem and suggest some terms to use going forward We almost certainly have this very wrong. But we welcome, criticism of what we've done"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "and a correction so we can, make this work. This is not intended as a criticism of anything that's already been done. It's just an attempt to make things better in the future. Next slide. So those key terms, we've got, don'ts and do. So the don't are don't use inbound and out of band OAM. Do talk about OEM that's related to a path o m o a m that's related to a packet, and OEM that is related to the treatment of a packet. And enable a combination of those terms. These Next night, Along the way, we've thought about some additional terms and I suspect these are causing or going to cause much more debate. This is the old active passive hybrid, concepts that already exist, coming from IPPM, And we thought that whilst those terms have been used, they haven't been precisely used for OAM. They've been used for performance monitoring and, and we'd like to tighten that Next slide. So what could happen What could happen is, that we chuck it out either because nobody cares which is perfectly fine or because it's either Ovious. That it's wrong or obvious that Carlos and I are stupid. Alternatively, we could decide it needs more discussion, fixing the terms, adding more terms, taking some terms out, and that would obviously happen on the mailing list, and then we would return and dusted with a a future meeting."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:03",
    "text": "And we could decide if it's urgent, and if if so adopted into the working group, before polishing so that we know that The reason we're doing it is because the working group cares. And that gives precisely 3 seconds, for The queue. Thomas Kaufman speaking. I care. I think it's wonderful work. And just a few comments. It would benefit if we could also add the so called why I'm node terminology, like in RFC 9378. We have IOM encapsulation node transit node and decapsulation node. That would be awesome if could add that you terminology here as well. Thank you, Thomas. Your mic was really pretty low there, but, hopefully that's in the minute and I'll talk to you afterwards. So, Rob Thornton, so thank you bring this to work. So one quick question though is whether we need to involve other groups and things. So if if IPPM have been busy defining these other definition and using them, how do we get coordination and make sure that if we need to find something here, everyone agrees with them and gets consistency. So I I'm not sure whether everyone we need to be discussing these terms is in this room at the moment. So that's the only concern I have is how to get the right set people together. So, yeah, I I I completely agree. And this is, you know, not just cross working groups in the ops area, but cross area. And for the next 2 days, Rob, that's your problem. Thank you. I I will say it's chair. I've seen a lot of the discussion on listen. I believe I PPM people have been involved in it. I do wonder if we we shouldn't kick off"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "something here to drive this discussion, maybe as an adoption call and if it comes back with, like, cross linked to IPPM. If it comes back, No. We need more work than we at least know what the answer is. Yeah. That sounds fine with me. I don't think there's any issue with with trying and progressing this and if it then changes in future to a different state, then that's also fine. So I have no issues with that. Thank you, Carlos. I'm Adrian. We do have time and you're gonna be limited to exactly those 5 minutes. For the exceeds, times. So, Suram, are you there? Yes, Joe. Am I audible? Go. Perfect. Hello, everyone. Long greetings from Bangalore, India. My name is. I'm working for Cisco. And this is very happy to say that this is my first IET of participation experience. I have the privilege of co authoring this draft with Thomas from from from from who are right now in person attending this meeting and along with and, also, we have Daniel from Bell Canada and the stars from Jennifer. Who are along with me on this draft. So the aim of this draft is to introduce new IT fix information elements to identify a set of information related to the GDP youth protocol. Next slide, please. GTPU stands for GPS tunneling protocol user plan, This is widely used by mobile network operators in the in their cellular networks. So this is how a typical GDP you head up looks like defined by 3gppp technical specification The exported information from this GTP you had like the tunnel endpoint identifier on this teid QFA calls flow information will help in providing data plane visibility"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:02",
    "text": "and also identify the transport performance of PDU sessions, Next slide, please. So here is glimpse of list of fields a from the gtpu header, So which will include some of the information in months like flags, measures that TAD the most important one, sequence number Next slide, please. And the associated extension header. We're not that extension. There is this PDU session continuity where this course information and the video type information is specified. So these are the sum of the information that will be exported in the ip fix. Next step, please. So we got an opportunity to have us. Let's go over 6 hours. And is being tested in the labs So this is a test code And when I am a pre allocate scientific entities, it will be replaced by those. Yep. Next save, please. So here is our request. We wish to avoid using private enterprise numbers, and we'll be requesting for IP fix in allocation this week. So then this draft could progress to document the use cases. Will be helpful for GGP references also as there is a separate standard development ordinance. Since this draft traveled between the two SDRs on his IP idea for IP fix and 3 gppp for gtpu. We wish to socialize this draft in the working group. Also facilitate discussions around the draft. And we will request for the adoption also. Yep. Thank you. Thomas. You're not in queue. Okay. Chin. Yeah. This is. And, for this GPU, I I think I'd probably amount of in the city BP. I'm wondering whether"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:00",
    "text": "is any coordination, you know, needed to make sure, you know, this already, you know, fitted recording in a 3 g b p. Sir, you is your question that there any correlation needed for this Yeah. Just just a question. I I'm not sure. Yeah. Yeah. So we we saw a need for such a correlation from the Beltranada use case. Right? So that's why we thought we will have this then here, I think one of the things and and one of the reasons we were a little hesitant to, give you time here, was because there it was just recently published or submitted to data tracker, and there hadn't been a lot of discussion on the list. I know you've pushed it out to OpsAWG at. I would encourage before any call adoption, there, there's more conversation about this. And I think question was around whether or not this should be done more on the 3 GPP side. Maybe. But, but I think there needs to be more on list discussion. Okay? Thank you, Sherong. And I think with that, we are on to, Rob is waving his hands. Ebots are onto the ops area that's I was. So I was just I because it there's quite a time mean, not sure what that much much to discuss. I was wondering if whether it's worth doing a show of hands on the previous documents that one agent presented to find the number of people who have read that and whether there is interest in trying workers stop more quickly as in, are there people interested in adopting that? Because I think it it refers to me that it's been discussed on that, and there is people coordinating, we could ask that now and maybe sort of progress it a little more quickly. Okay."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:04:00",
    "text": "As ordered, is there an interest to adopt the, previous presented work, the OAM terminology work here in ops AWG. Can say yes you are interested in working on this. You think this is interesting and you wanna work this. No. Either you don't think it's interesting or you don't wanna work on it, or no opinion You choose not to raise your hand either way. So you can get into the data into the, meet echo tool and put in your results. Just when I thought I was it was done. Okay. 13 say yes. 18 have no opinion on this and no No one seems to think, no, this is not worth working on. Or explicitly says, no. This is not what we're working on. But I yeah. It's up to you. I'm not sure how to read this I guess I would interpret the size probably maybe more discussions are needed, so maybe now is a bit preemptive. So I don't think it's like a a flashing yes. We should we should progress with this at pace, it sounds like we can get a little bit slower, maybe. That's that's fair. I I was just trying to the the discussion on the list has kinda died off because maybe maybe instead of a call for adoption, it's worth putting this back out there. As a as an email thread to try and drive more a discussion. There has been some chat has been some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:02",
    "text": "Where did the chat go? Has been some chat discussion here on it, so I think maybe bring that back to the list and driving more of this discussion would be useful. And and, Supportive. What you're saying, Rob? Okay. Any other comments on am before I before we send it over to our distinguished area directors. Okay, Rob. With that, you and Mahesh have the floor. Yeah. I will. course. I will. Of Didn't have any slides that I saw but Yeah. I'll, I'll help take minutes if you want. Just in production. Yeah. Or open mic. We'll have it looks like it's gonna be open market time. So, obviously, I have to thank you all as I here in a couple of days' time, and welcome, Mahesh. She's gonna take her to a marvelous job as well. Any questions either for me as an outgoing AD or questions from Mahesh as he comes in. I think he would have Warren in the room, but he's busy in DNS op, and I don't see him And I don't know who's coming, I did ask, but I can see him. So So now the chance for any questions either on what I've done or what Mahesh is planning to do. John, unless you want to say anything No. I just wanted to say, I He's not quite off. So I can't even say thank you, Rob, for all the work you've done. But, yes, I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:08:01",
    "text": "if we should for years of service. And, He's he's been helping me transition, so thank you for that. And any questions, as you said, for either one of us. Benoit speaking. So it's not that common. It's a big thank you to Europe what you've been doing for 4 years. I know being an idea is sometimes an unthankful job. You understand other couple of years, the years of service for the community. So a big thanks to you. I too thank you. You've been not just in, as an area director, but also is kind of helping on some of the net mod things. So it's been you're you're this will be nice because now you'll be able to be more vocal there, but thank you very much for all the the mentorship and all the the leadership here in ops area. Mesh, since Rob brought it up, What are your plans as ops area director? Right. I think, a couple of topics I that should be of interest across this area. One that I think bit more started with, which is how do we make the yang models work together? I think that's One of the areas that I would like to focus on in my years, as a service, The rough edges are where things don't meet Are there overlapping models? It's Sunday, an area of focus for me the other is just this whole discussion of adoption in the industry and what is preventing it or what would enable actually more adoption."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:10:00",
    "text": "Of young models. So those certainly are two areas that I would like to focus on The third which is kind of related is, of course, the RFC 3535 and what comes next. Trying to identify what We what we got right Suddenly, acknowledge that, but also what we did not get right. And maybe more importantly, what we need to look at to enable true automation. Of the network. Pressions, So, any questions? No. I think you just Going once Going twice. We're done. Thank you. Thank you, Thanks."
  }
]
