[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:18",
    "text": "foreign thank you again all right hello are we waiting for someone else probably so let's talk you don't expect the representation you're probably in the wrong room or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "um so let's move on to the agenda today before I mean yeah the second session so you might have not read the not well but over that you have any questions participation make sure you're signing into the session um when you want to go to the the queue make sure you indicate that through the through me take home um and a remote participant make sure you you mute yourself um when you're not talking of course unmute when you're attacking um next slide um regarding the mask policy oh louder regarding the mask policy um we have been asked to just remind everyone that you have to wear the mask except when you're talking at this mic the reason is that um that we expect to have a certain distance between the speaker and the remaining of the group so this mic you should keep your um your mask so today as a um well you can see on the slide if you have further um you need further information to run the session but I suggest we just go to the agenda so the first thing the document status we have two documents that are in isg review um this is art or ID um I'm wondering if maybe our ad has"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "anything to say around those drafts so here we're giving candid for for drip nothing really to say everything is information it's pretty big one has got one discus and the other one has got still two discus that are blocking so that need to be solved uh the only issue that sometimes it takes time because not only the authors need to provide answers or revised ID met or but also the ad with blocking needs to remove his block so the earlier you provide feedback the better and for instance one which is very good at this is bad he replies within hours which is pretty good yeah so one of the reason is uh when you review a documents if you don't have Fast Response you lose the context so yeah I would suggest a 24 hour slot um before uh real responses um then and I think that's going to be the the meat of the work today that's the oh no we have two I mean we have dessert and main course um the the OS draft so um this is a working group last call um we're waiting for um two additional reviews which is odds and odd um it would be good that we got those um but uh we can't do anything at that point regarding that we have two issues regarding those draft one consent and number of reviews and the other is the allocation of um that needs to be provided by ikio so my stone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "I'm sure we are in line with everything we predicted that we should speed up two not extend that so the agenda so we the so I suggest oh stew no that's right try do you want to present the ark should I can you hear us if not I respect so try when you're ready let us know I hope you hear us in the meantime I suggest that Bob present um a writing can you please bring my slides up hello oh okay we'll get back here twice don't won't take me long for mine that's fine you can hear me though right I'm just checking my arms we hear you now that's good okay okay so um we're gonna we're now up to please go to the first slot next slide um we have gone from at the last ITF we were at version 17. we're now version 31. so there's been a lot of iterations and as Roman told me long ago versions are free so just send out the next version make some changes put out the next version make some changes just keep it rolling so people can see what you have um so there's a lot of text improvements and a lot of people mad Eric isg Ayanna"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:02",
    "text": "is in there but there's been no design changes no technical changes from 17 to 31 we have not changed the design of of the drip rid uh and that's all been static the ISD reviewed version 29. so if you want to compare you go 29 to 31 what changes have been made since the iesg comments what still needs to be done um 31 I just posted this morning I did have problems because they broke um on the submit yet again um and so I had to instead of using one of the includes I had to put the stuff directly in the XML but they're going to fix it anyway um so 31 was just posted and mostly that was Ayanna changes cleaning up some comments there about Ayanna and uh um both Murray and Ayanna are happy with the text I have there so hopefully they'll clear clear Murray's comment with what I've done done there in uh in 31 Diana considerations that's there has been brought up that we use the term registrar and this is more coming to conversations with the Registries graph but it just feeds all the way up back up the chain this is problematic because registrar has a specific mean the ITF and we'll need and we best drop this term because what we have is not an i as I can register we have something else here so we need a different label so we don't get the semantic class what I'm proposing is drip registration agency or somebody got any better ideas or take it to the list please oh here comes Adam Adam is going to give us a better idea uh Adam Whitaker um so I'm going to go more into detail on this in my presentation so if we hold comments or anything to mine because we're going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "have a nice long discussion I hope during my my slot on this but thank you for the primer Bob right so so this is again that one of the things we were talking more about is that terminology we use we're trying to get broader um matching up with how iitfers think about these words so we don't get class and also people outside will know what we're talking about as well so that's that point next slide yeah just no clarification you remember that we had a lot of discussion with the AG about the uh whether the DNS is part of the scope of the road and so on so my fear here is that should we overload the real specification with all this consideration or we just get those out of the rate specification and differ I would say declare the required clarification to uh to the result if that is the plan I think that's that's the at least for my point of view that's the right way to go right that that is that is a plan we're not going to we don't We're Not Gonna which gets my next slide which gets my next slide great feeding there's lots of cans we're kicking down the road to to Austin registries and we need to decide if we need to kick any of those back up and for the most part no we need to as much as possible say that red and and and are are done and we don't and we intentionally kick these things down the road because they belong in in off they belong in Registries and that's where they where they go but to to look at these things and for instance the UA's debt HDA registration attestation and DNS as alternative Sac we've had a tremendous discussion about this in the past 36 hours and how we're going to be doing this so that there will be more coming on on that um and another thing that that Adam will be getting to is that we mentioned Epp"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "in um in Arc and in in rid but now they've actually been doing some coding they have us they're saying that was really not well I'll leave that for for Adam to explain what the changes here on this particular point but this might be what again wording which feeds back up because now we have coding experience and we're just at the point in time that all we're doing is changing the label not changing the intent so that that that's these are particular open items which will feed back up but they're really just changing the label to get the semantics right next I know all these sleeping dogs lie um because drip Registries is still fluid and we just had yet another discussion just the past half hour ago about um about Registries so again it's still fluid but again the terminology we're pretty much in agreement there what's the intent I think we can do that and and move forward on and not make any changes and let those sleeping dogs lie as they are next so we need I talked to isga this week on remaining concerns I've been Corning a couple of them and that's my intent this week as much as possible to have one-on-one with with each of the players and and get anything open settled so we can do this I've been talking note to Paul Walter about what we're doing with ipsec key and and what we're going to do about that and what ipsec work group may do that about about that so I'm trying to take each item as a stance get with that that uh that ad and see that these items are um directions resolved and then for me to do the text and and get a version and update the draft accordingly and anytime I get one result I'm going to get that draft out I'm not going to wait till I get everything together my attitude is that that revisions are free and I'm just every time I get one settled you'll"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:01",
    "text": "see that draft posted with with that resolution as I do them because I want to keep this turning on as you said um I'm Eric that we want to keep it fresh in their minds and and um Dan you want to keep it fresh in their minds the discussions and not let it drift away with all the other concerns everybody has so watch for regular updates with everything else I'm doing as I resolve each item I will release that draft version out that's all I have to say we're in the final stages of this and it's gonna I'm gonna keep this thing going and you know do the diffs now what did Bob change this time or do the dish from back that version to that version or to the collection of changes he's made uh does he step on himself on anything um but but that's it I'm feeling really good about this that I am on the uh down to the final pieces on it and we can say this piece is done and we can look at we'll be on to other items in the work group thank you so just a question um just a question do we expect all the issue being solved by the end of the week uh Direction not all of them okay I don't expect I may get one update out but I don't I it's coming next week I'll be doing the writing because there's just too much going my head right now okay for me to do serious heads down writing this week uh now if you see if you see what I have two weeks yeah if you see where I have commitments and other sessions or presentations and other important things for us not this week next week okay next week is fine same week so try can you hear us I can hear you can you hear me though yeah we hear you Perfect all right uh thanks uh so here's the update for the drip architecture uh is to review summary uh school next slide please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "you have the controls so you can control them directly actually I have the controls it's not working okay all right perfect getting better so we're receiving 11 reviews and I had one discussion and a 10 new objections so thanks for the details review and along this 11 reviews uh most editorial and uh text clarifications and some of the discussions are focused on the Improvement of the uh drip architecture diagram which is the figure four so in for that in the past we're trying to align the drip architecture and the drip uh requirement which is now uh RFC 90153 uh we're trying to align with the terminology usage and the overall system design so so that would that was a really uh I would say half a year ago um now now which left the problem that a sum the terminology was not mentioned in the drip context so people are complaining that and also they are competent regarding if we should upload diagram to reflect the uh the the First Source ideas that blob has um which is for that we uh we were not uh even putting on the draft so this is I believe those are has been cleared in the Middle East uh unless we have another comments from there uh then we also have comments for the problem cost because of the audit reference to the new read draft and also the uh the estm documents uh then we have uh lots of uh security discussions from Roman which is Bob has been replied and I'm not going to the technical details there um reading on the security expert but I believe in discussion probably could continue going off from the Middle East if Roma has uh has more uh concerns all right so this next slide can you see that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:01",
    "text": "okay so as of yesterday uh we uploaded Ruby 1025 which should help include all the fix we have proposed in the Middle East we have a lot of discussion going on and reply so in reviewing 25 we sell the uh the fixed summary to each of the reviewers already uh I believe that they should have but I don't think they have time to look at it during the IHF week so we're waiting for the response from from from the reviewers uh here is only a uh some of the examples a particular problems like we are using a round reference to hhit and still using the reach so we we did update for that um then the rest is mostly the discussion from Roman regarding the Securities uh as I mentioned you know that's totally only the Middle East uh hopefully that will be clarifying all of the Romans uh comments all right next slide so this is the fix from uh yendi 25 revision regarding the figures uh so as I mentioned in the past with at least in the working group level we all agreed that we're not going to repeat the things happening in the requirement draft uh uh we're not going to repeat them in the in the architecture uh there's the the people complaining uh the current solution we have proposed is actually just to um add AEM from a note that uh if we want to see the definition for the new term which is an audience the architecture draft just go back to reference the RFC 90153 uh I'm not sure because I haven't heard any feedback yet regarding from the Middle East uh but I think that's a Bubba's idea uh just put a reference there um you know just if people want to know uh where's that where's this coming from that that should clarify uh we also"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "um there's a new uh reference from uh estmf f34112a which is really has the new uh reader Type 4 we need it for the trip so that's had to be updated um uh then edited the verification text for the math calculations and informed reference to the authentication and resolution checks so um that's already fixed there's a typo in your slide it's update reference for f 3411-22a 22A that's the type okay all right that's that should be fixing the next review um next up so we still have a little bit of Mana uh discussion among authors but nothing concerned with isc3 review so as as as far as we concerned from the authors mostly um if not all big comments has been addressed so bring your coverage all the reviews go ahead to review the the difference uh for the new ribbon 25. uh do let us know if there's anything wrong so the price we're gonna if there's no more comments from the working group or the isfg um we're applying to uh had another Rebellion 26 I would say in two weeks I think that's reasonable right um to to kind of uh close it oh sorry I should have moved to the next slide that's all cheers okay great so we expect this document to be shipped in two weeks if the order is great right yeah I fly Stu here first I want to publicly thank you for taking over his editor and handling the many issues most of them small and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "editorial but some of them significant that were raised by iesg and others there's absolutely no way I could have kept up in these last six months and so thank you very much for doing it um just so everybody knows um since there were a number of uh tweaks that you needed to make in response to various ESG comments Etc Adam and I did what we hoped would be a a final review of the revised document while we were on the train down I think and we caught a number of little things that we brought to your attention but uh as far as we can see it is it is essentially ready to rock perfect thank you Adam why is Bob so short anyway all right so I'm gonna go through this really quick um so this is the authentication protocols next slide please so uh as uh Daniel and Med mentioned earlier there's one open issue item it's from icao so in F 3411 22A the specific authentication method codes are allocated and assigned by Iko this was the process that was made between ASTM and them there should be a process for Iko to do it uh Bob helped formulate that process for Iko but I don't know the status of it if it's up they're accepting entries so I'm going to make a process to get to f3411 working group and poke and see who I need to talk to an Iko to at least informally get the process started but we probably need an ielt ietf liaison to do it and I don't know if we have one officially so we probably want to start that process that will probably involve Eric and it is a circular dependency we can't publish the draft without numbers and they can't review the direct they can't give us a number without reviewing the draft so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:00",
    "text": "regarding the ATF liaison I really will not get a long-term relationship with RKO most probably so we don't need to get their liaison person right but a liaison statement so asking to RKO something and expecting an answer is basically the chair's Duty got it right cool so this is Eric talking and um now it's Bob so just remember the person at Ico um I've spoke with him before uh he's the one who man who man who manages the uh CTA manufacturer code I just have to remind him that you did commit to putting this this page up um please do it and it's just uh it's just get there they've been going they've been going to reorg there so now it's a matter of getting their attention and I will do that next week because the uh the the The Trusted framework panel chair will be back in the office next week I've been told so excellent that's on schedule for next week to get that done thank you for the reminder about that you're welcome yeah yeah I mean it is astm's job to do we will do it for them okay thank you thank you yes so this is that for for the working group I don't know if you are following this document deeply but there is a dependency on the code and location so we cannot progress this document if there is no formal registry in the equal so this is really fundamental for for us if there is no sufficient progress from the echo I think that we have we need to figure out how to make progress and fight on other plans but this is this is important correct yeah I grab the series if you wanted to say something I know I saw you in queue and then you've appeared and then disappeared I let him because he um I I realized that Bob already had it with solo at Takeo okay but what I want to say is I'm uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "with the FAA I'm also in the communication panel and I saw in your slides that you're also looking for the oytark and the DNS entry and that's something that's managed by the communication panel okay and I'm uh proposed that uh one of you together with me put together a working paper very short one requesting what you need and we can take it to the communication panel meeting which will be in September if that's soon enough for you and get it onto record and also there will be then an opportunity to get it adopted which means that it makes part of the documentation and makes it official cool all right noted I will yeah I'll touch base with you later uh so September will be I mean um I mean when we send a query do you know when we can get a response is that during the meeting or okay right okay right so that's perfect timing all right uh next slide please right so just high level drafts draft status so we've I've also had a lot of changes 10 in total um because I am now in the Mantra with Bob versions are free so uh there was a lot of reordering of sections due to Bob's uh comments and first I think ever full read of the document and so a lot of sections were reordered uh restructured section six was a massive one that got restructured not content wise but just headers and where things were stated to make things flow better"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "and then a lot of explanation text was added in places uh so next steps well this I think the technical side is ready we're just waiting on the Iko Sam code uh and reviews I'm going to be sending the document to f3411 working group to get some reviews but we also need some other reviews so hopefully people can raise their hands we can get some people on this side up to three to uh review the document before we move to the next step and so in the room I'd like to see if anyone has read the document or can commit to review the document commit commit okay so Rob Seegers um anyone else anyone in chat as well if anyone's watching the chat window Rob Ashley thank you one more you don't need to look at your screen now basically important for us to show that there is interest from the working group and that we are confident that the content is really reflecting what we think about this the scope of this document we as chairs we have reviewed this document several times but we are doing this as a courtesy for for the authors but we need the participants so this is this this job so uh please this will just take you I would say one or two hours to understand the uh the context um raise any issues that have in the documents so that the authors knows that the what they have recording document is easily understood by the others and there are no major flaws in the document so one more reviewers and we can move forward if we don't have one we will stop here okay um so next slide I guess we need one more oh one more anyone virtual or in person and also on"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:00",
    "text": "the I would say on the remote should I or Andre if you can if you can also volunteer that will be really cold yeah go ahead Trey maybe having audio difficulties yes no no do you want to review he is going to review yeah he probably is yeah please so that we can we can record that in the in a minute please you can come to the map I can't see your name please thank you yeah yeah please correct to uh my name is Fred uh sorry from Ghana and uh I would like to review okay thank you thank you very much thank you very much so we have four reviewers right now yeah plus whatever comes from at 3411. all right so next slide all right so we're going to get into the meat of my discussion for the rest of this uh thing which I think is a half an hour um oh dear okay so I'm gonna go through this in a couple of stages so I'm gonna go all the way through the slides and then we'll go back and do discussion so next slide please all right so changes from a one to o5 uh I closed all of the items uh from 113. uh the contributors fix Andre's text is now in an appendix uh there's Raa HDA text that we pulled from uas grid that Bob helped word Smith and then the title change that I had proposed new items were also added the Iko DNS structure was added uh thanks from Bob for bringing it in to bring some understanding of cert oids some improved Epp from Len bales from info networks because he reviewed it and did some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "modifications as we were trying to do some interop work and then x509 certificates from Bob which is still somewhat of a stub but he has intentions to make it more full um next slide so these are my working items next slide uh so the cert oids this is not in the current version but it's going to be in the next one that gets pushed literally probably tomorrow uh we're using Bob's personal oid at the moment we'll probably want to allocate one for the working group uh it's using the second value in it and then we have values for the format and the entity type to build something so you can see an example here for a broadcast attestation so that these can be put insert records into DNS uh next slide uh so this is the DNS structure we're probably going to come back to this slide again um but we should try to have all drips Work Fit within this DNS structure that is I think the proposal that at least Bob has had um and it ties a little bit into mailing list discussions of the use of arpa from Jim Reed and some others that have been throwing it around um but effectively uas.iko dot int or something would be our root um that image is a little bit older based on understanding that I've had in the past 36 hours next slide uh I'm gonna add some r a r a a allocation clarifications that came up during the hackathon uh due to endpoints so basically raas are we are expecting them to be Cas but they could be other things uh and they use an HDA value of zero so they're part of the hierarchy uh they if a CA wants to do other interactions besides just registering hdas they would stand up an HDA under themselves because they have the HDA space to allocate to whoever they want so they'll just probably use one and I'm wondering if we should just use and put that right in the draft and the ra value one is special going"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "towards the manufacturer side um next slide all right so this is our big discussion items so I'm going to go a little slower here so first off we're entered document dependencies um so info networks is a huge help here um they were the first ones to come to us and we're like hey we'd like to do try to do an interop demonstration uh with ax Enterprise and a lot of ax's work is closed source so we can't release it publicly but they wanted to try to interact with us and it was very hard for them coming in from the registry document to find the flow how does the debt work how do you build it why are we building it why is it built this way why are we using DNS in this way et cetera et cetera et cetera it took over 20 plus Zoom hours on my personal part over the course of a week to get one person up to speed so that he actually had his head on straight so we could actually have somewhat more technically meaningful discussions and that's worrisome I think um so now I'm going to make more direct effort to ensure that that doesn't happen again because 20 hours is a lot of my time um even though I'd be willing to do it with anybody who wants to I am a very personable person I'm very friendly um personable person I'm great so um there was that and I think we should put that into the whole working group so we have a good context overall because sometimes we lose the forest amongst the trees if that's the way the phrase goes uh next slide please so Bob touched on this this is the term registrar so this came from info networks as we were interrupting net once they got past the 20 plus hours of discussion this was the first question that actually came up from them they're like we understand why you're using the word registrar you're doing functions like a registrar but do"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "you really want to be a registrar because there are a lot of processes and regulations on the registrar operator that get levied and our use case in drip that could be prohibitive and slow or impede adoption uh for at least in the United States and what we've been thinking we are targeting USS vendors in UTM uas service suppliers they probably don't want to play the game of trying to become a registrar I'm not sure but it could slow the adoption down and info networks argued that this potentially is the thing we would want to try to avoid so in short registrar's not the right word but it's the right thing it's the right function but we don't want to call it a registrar so we don't bring some other entities in to bring process and flow so we need a different term Bob has proposed a term I have proposed a term drip provisioning agency with Tim masker from info networks Stu has proposed something in UTM framework which has its own overloaded terms so we want to avoid that landmine too um and this will affect the drip architecture as uh Bob mentioned not so much in that we're going to change too much it's just that wherever the term registrar is we want to replace it with the one we choose and then have a definition at the top that says what basically describes a registrar but then doesn't call it a registrar I see Stu standing at the line I will let you go really fast because that's breaking my protocol yeah I just I just want to add a little Clarity to what Adam is saying um I'm in favor of calling and saying what it is right and what this thing is is in the generic sense of the word a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "registrar and it is actually registering a domain but it is not registering a second level domain like example.com and so that raises two issues when you register a second level domain the registrar and the registry operator each have to Pony up money with that a single uas operator might fly 10 missions in a day each one of these operations would get its own session ID so that one operators one aircraft would have to pay or the registrar and the registry operator would have to pay for 10 registrations right and while I'm sure I can would be thrilled about this um it's just it's economically and feasible right a an aircraft operator is not going to be willing to to step up to the cash register each time he registers a session ID for a single operation and then the other issue is for a USS which is uh operated by a company that's primarily focused on Aviation issues being an icann accredited registrar is just outside of the scope of their business so that's why we need to redefine and rename the term thanks for the clarifications too so uh we'll come back to this probably if other people have comments so next slide or Rob you're taking uh yeah I go to the mic please are you taking suggestions for your name sure demo d-m-o-d-i-m-o demo drip ID management organization foreign stew write that down okay great uh next slide please all right so this is a diagram that people probably here can't see but maybe"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "online they can see better um this is the product of the 20 plus hours of discussions with Tim Metzger that I had to go through um and this was our attempt to fix the problem with the term registrar not only in the sense of the wording but also technically how do we write it into the document and structure the document accordingly um so next slide so there's a couple different parts this is the drip provisioning agent name to be determined it might change but basically it's a logical entity that handles is the user interaction point for registering a debt session ID or session ID in general and it handles all the drip based logic such as the cryptographic operations creating the attestations and the certificates in response or parsing the ones that came in the validation of the debt and making sure that it's not already taken and the generation of at least the resource record content um and the resource records must be put in DNS because where else would you put them um and if the resource if the name server is not co-located we want to specify some not protocols but interactions between them and we've chosen open API and Epp and if it's not code if it is co-located well then it's out of scope for our documents because you're going to build your drip provisioning agent talking to the name server you're talking to they're on the same box you're probably using SQL because it's a database or files if it's bind so not really our problem uh next slide please now there's the counter to this the drip information agent um this is the entity that gets queried by a user or lookup for lookups a private data via the session ID is the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "key uh and it has to use a differentiated access mechanism of some kind so drip standardize our DAP in this capacity and there's an rdds a registration data directory service in the back end some of these terms are a little bit still hazy to me so I'm sorry if I'm using them a bit wrong um next slide so with all this said uh myself and Tim basker from info networks are proposing a new document document structure the first thing is that the current registry draft becomes a architecture for debt-based registries and it just contains the high-level architecture the slide you saw previously with the the image and description the last two slides of components as a selection uh the list of the resource records and reasoning why we're using them and the definitions of any objects we are sending attestations and certificates uh and then we would spawn new documents for the interfaces between the varying Parts uh standardizing what we can uh in particular there's an interface between the DPA and the registry and we would either we would have two documents spawned for that one for Epp and another one for an open API and now this is the point where I pull out my phone and I read something from Tim because Tim unfortunately had to leave uh he said he's saying that uh it's an effort to keep both the Legacy DNS infrastructure providers and more modern modern agile providers for registries so that's why there's two camps there and this point this is going back to a little bit of Bob's point of our Epp and the wording around it uh and then finally an interface between the information agent and the varying"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:02",
    "text": "pieces it needs to talk to uh next slide please I think it's my one of my last slides next slide thank you so for the next steps we have to handle the registrar terminology swap which we've discussed um and that's mainly an arch at this point so and I'm going to handle that within Dash 26 which is going to come out by the end of the week and then the draft scope changes we need to make a decision as a working group there has been an open question of do we take if we're going to take the registry document just make it an architecture document for Registries why isn't that text just in the architecture document I don't disagree with that but I think architecture is too far along to add it without causing a massive disruption so I say leave it alone what's in reg architecture is good now and our work in Registries should fix it and or do we just change the document as I proposed uh and I can perform a dry run of this by the way I'll make the dry run and send it to the mailing list not upload it to the data tracker so people can see it review it and be like is this really what we want uh Eric I'll let you yeah everything the ad for this group if you change dedicated document right like adding new text we need to redo a last score again there is no for this one there's no last call there is if there's a new content we will need to have a call for adoption to make sure that the the other documents are aligned with what we want but they take about the architecture document no no no yeah okay yeah the architecture document the modification will just the altering the terminology to align what we uh the outcome that's it yeah that's all I propose we do but it was said by someone else at some"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "point why is it just not in there and I'm arguing don't do that let it keep going minimum minimal change okay right fair enough um so I will if everyone's okay with that I will put a rough cut of this into the mailing list so people can see the documents at least in some rough cut form it won't be complete but at least will give people an idea of like okay this is what this document would be in this document would be and a high level look of what the content would be but not complete yes so just one recommendation one you will say share the uh the proposed new structure of your I would say of the content yep please don't Implement any chance until we reach a conclusion off there is did a right way to go or we maintain the currency document structure and then we can because there are other options in order to provide the content so please don't Implement any change yeah I won't make the changes to the registry document okay so okay yeah yeah there will be a dash six of Registries by the end of the week but they are of the changes for the odid from the working items previously in this Slide the proposed discussion items will not be done so um yeah we can go to the next slide so um do we have any comments I have two but let's yeah let's let's have this discussion then I am in complete agreement that we break this into two documents it is going to become unwieldy otherwise and we can then get the implementation specific part um well done as we get the architecture out for the how the registry works in the process we separate process from implementation I think is what it is correct correct yes mm-hmm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:02",
    "text": "Jim reads and just to see what Bob said I think this is the right way to go forward and we also need to think later on perhaps there might be new ways of doing the updates to the database that may not be documented right now so we then don't want to have to go back and change existing almost historical documents at that point to accommodate a new style of authentication or updating the database that could be done just after a standalone documents I think concentrate on getting the roles and responsibilities sorted out in the first thing document that explain how the pieces fit together yes but the mechanisms for how those pieces fit together could be documented separately yes that's exactly what the registry document would become and then the Implement implementation documents would be spawned from it so myself I have one comment um I saw um dot iCal yeah okay so this is a uh I'll let Bob mention this well actually Jim and I need some serious discussion about the realities of the of what's in DNS so Jim and I have not had the opportunity to sit down prior to this meeting hopefully this evening we will be able to find the time and go through it I know what I want to accomplish Jim knows what the reality out there is and we'll come to a meeting of mines and then post it on the list um but Fortune the two of us and this is why I love the face to face the two of us who find a room we can sit down with the paper and draw it out and then come back to you that we would not have been able to effectively do even over Zoom so please stay tuned this is this is for Jim and I to to uh beat up and maybe Rob will join us as well yeah I will you know we'll find a place and I'll post where we're going to be hiding okay yes um my concern is also not only whether Ico is aware of but uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "um regarding the ITF is it fine that we Define um a route that is uh very specific okay uh before I let Bob or Jim say anything I want the registry document in whatever words we need to word it to say you can choose whatever level um core is to the right of what we would where we would end right so we've specified debt and then stuff and MFR and stuff but anything to the right of that dot choose what you want right if it's an Iko if it's not in iko.int if it's in remote ID dot Arrow as in my implementation right now has example.com don't care right so I want to make sure that that's in the draft Yeah but in the implementation for a lot of reasons there will be the one for the prefix that is assigned this is how it's going to be so at some point in the implementation there will be a nailing it down this prefix relates to this fqdn tree it's a registry made in the drip registry architecture document that says this IPv6 orcid prefix equals this root fqdn top level domain however you want to call it yes yeah okay so for the sake of time I mean do you be short Jim yeah just very very short two points first of all is to answer the questions things do we have any special ITF process to go through the answer for is it depends it depends what the choice of the name is going to be second thing is please don't talk about this as being a root call it an apex that that prefixes it's an apex the route has got another context in the DNS and we're not talking about the DNS route I hate the term root please sit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:01",
    "text": "with me and figure out what to call it because I don't know Zone Apex is the terminology from the DNS okay noted so let's move we have nine minutes left so we have nine minutes okay so um to wrap up uh we had a hackathon uh for us for drip we brought together and we did with info networks we created live registration with the ax implementation which is sitting on the bench right there which I won't show here but I'll be at hack demo happy hour making session IDs live many of them um and putting them into the broadcast Puck broadcasting them picking them up with the ax implementation app Receiver app which all of us have and doing the lookups in the DNS and getting stuff back out so we have a live working uh demonstration and this is just a visualization of what that is um so with that I am done um and I'll hand it over to Andre to talk about his implementation stuff I think thank you go ahead Andre hello can you okay well yep perfect um I don't have a slide but I shared the link to our test pad and pop release in the in the chat list so if you just click you can see our flying drone carrying Raspberry Pi 4 which is including drip code and transmitter via GPS and Battery and I'll also public code release includes Android app based on open drone ID as well as backend which is based on some database server which is not currently following the registry document we also have alternative implementation based on iroka blockchain which is documented in the article so there is a pointer there as well and there is also open Heap release which is kind of tested and"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:01",
    "text": "it can be used to to generate this strong wrong ID tax and so welcome to download our code and test it and hopefully in future we can also try interrupts with Adam's release so hopefully everybody found the URL if there are any questions or comments I can answer any comments two is going is running to the mic so to Andre and your students thank you and to everyone else Adam and I deeply regret that our sponsors do not permit us to openly share our code and I re-fight that fight monthly but every month I lose so sorry and thank you Andre you're most welcome and in Belgium we are going to have another iteration and the fresh release for the latest specs maybe Network controlled ID and hovercrafts that we are running the book okay so do we have so if we have five minutes I'm I'm just gonna give a 30 second comment is that in your presentation you're mentioning that um uh so Adam it's back to the DNS um I mean uh once you own a DNS I think you can provide whatever service you want behind there is nothing you're related to I can so uh sometimes but I'm sure Jim is going to clarify that for you better um sometimes I have the impression that we see a problem where there are no problems yeah I mean the fact is you can pretty much do what you want once you've got the control of a particular domain name and you don't need to talk to anybody else about that um I think it's also unhelpful at the moment to try and think of this in terms of the I can registered registrar model I don't see the way I need for example"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "to pay a fee every time you register a name associated with a particular UAV I don't think that model is ever going to fly excuse the pun so I don't think we have to worry about that okay perfect so anyone um wants to add something but if we have two minutes I want to point people to the netred draft that were finished that hopefully finish this work what's the next activity for this group we need to be ahead of everybody else and get the Network remote ID work in place so that we are leading Network remote ID and not trying to catch up and fitting in with what some people think it should be and if they don't do the job securely right so um I want people to start looking at to start thinking about it because that should be our next activity gearing up for 115. James James please do you want to speak if you're speaking we don't hear you you can't hear me yeah you can hear me okay good uh yeah in reviewing the registry draft um I noticed that there needs to be work done on the Epp and the rdap side um and I talked to Scott Holland back he had offered to help with that so I highly recommend that you reach out to him on that um and that was it thank you Okay so thank you mad for uh James Gould yeah so I think unless we have a very"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:03",
    "text": "last comment I think we can enjoy the meeting thank you everyone and um make sure the draft are sent to the RFC editor in the next two weeks um another comment um I'd like all the conversation to be on the mailing list that would be very helpful um at least don't include I mean if you want to send something to me I am on the mailing list right I think we're done thank you everyone thank you [Music] foreign"
  }
]
