[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:09",
    "text": "well these are all the slides the stuff that's on the data tracker and that's the ones that we've uploaded for meat echo so bob's thing is on a github repository it's not in the data tracker right so we can't pick it up yet and i think bob was intending not to use any slice because you only got a couple of minutes video test one that was speaking i heard you thank you bob that was jim what have i done wrong just give us a moment here we're having trouble with i've got i thought i had this right is coming"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:02",
    "text": "do you want to run things yes apparently i want to run things um good afternoon everyone uh this is the itf's drip session so anyone who is not interested in trip please leave the room or stay whatever jim and me are here as delegates for the real chairs who uh attend remotely um if you get me the next slide we are trying to learn how to get to the next slide can you help me what's up daniella med would you mind sharing the slides if you know how to do it um okay so so i think those are james"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:12",
    "text": "no daniel you need to request sharing a slide with the document icon yeah that's what i [Music] i said shared preload slides oh yeah now something's coming up and the audio level like this is good enough daniel you are good but at the desk that we can't hear our um on-site delegate here do you see my slides not yet not yet i'm still seeing this section being recorded still says it's jim slides i think jim has to stop sharing to let yeah i i i i have to unshare yours okay just heard some key clacking somebody's coming too good that's me hmm"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:18",
    "text": "i said something now back to the sessions recording slides daniel you are in charge you should have another window with the left and right buttons so i i clicked on something shared he asked me i had a window asking me whether i want to share or not and i said yes yes and now somewhere in another window you have the right and the left arrow okay jim do it then nope i can try doesn't look good for the away team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:19",
    "text": "all right i have slide control now guys i believe yes i think you're under control hopefully there we go there we go oh no okay i'm moving okay so um this is a not well unless you have never seen it um so take the time to read it if you have any questions please come to to see us or um contact um our ad next slide so um these are the rules for um how we handle this meeting that's hybrid meetings so we have in person participant and uh remote participant um i i think that um we're not that um numerous um and uh if you have a question i would say um you can jump into into the conversation um we are more in a conversation like a type of meeting next slide so you have the agenda mythical and other information next slide so where we are um so we have um our first rfc being published and now we're heavily focused on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:01",
    "text": "derip architecture the the last call is just being started today or um i hope it's it's it might be yesterday for some people and we we have um um i would say one of the main document the chord document which is the err id that is in working group last school so next slide so milestones um where we have a few other documents that we need to to focus on um it's not the end of the road but we're pretty good in that um i see the registries we we target to be done by the end of the year for the next itf we think uh oauth oath might be a good target um pretty confident about that one um the error id was for december 2021 but i mean we're only in march so it's an itf schedule next slide so um this is the agenda and i suppose that schway is gonna start um has anyone wants to say something uh before we start the presentation no so um i suggest that schwei is presenting the drip arc android"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:10",
    "text": "i lost control here for a second sorry uh what slide deck was it for um actually there is no there is no slide for the um the first two ones this is just for the i would say for the editors to report any last minute major issues you have on the um and for the read there's only one flight from from school so if there's nothing to report from the uh from the ark we can move to the next one so for bob to report in here i would say last major issue on his side thanks i don't see any slides for bob in the decks to share um and that's that's what that's what i was saying is that for the first two ones for the architecture and the red there is no slides okay just only for first two it's the last i would say item so there is no major issue for the arc a segment that can jump in and commend the red draft and then we can move to uh to see what for the for the astm uh update got it okay thank you so i think yeah did you want me to proceed with this one i believe so okay so uh we all know our first rfc has been published and then um at right about the same time as our uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "requirements and terminology were published the astm f-38 committee which is the unmanned aircraft system operations committee entered ballot on two uas red documents one of them is the revision of f 3411-19 which has been the basis of most of our work there was extensive uh okay it went away um there was extensive work um done on um f-3411 in order to keep up with the regulatory changes in both the u.s and in europe uh we didn't have a lot of inputs from the rest of the world um the ballot has since closed a few days ago and there was only one negative ballot the way astm works that one negative ballot must be resolved in other words either the chair needs to convince the one who filed that ballot to rescind it or the working group needs to find the ballot non-persuasive and then a higher level within the astm needs to agree with that decision that it was non-persuasive this may take a while because it's an allegation of international of intellectual property conflict of interest fortunately the means of compliance which is a document saying how to satisfy an faa regulation based upon the technical standard passed unanimously um the picture in the middle is just an illustration of the um flow if you will of requirements uh from external down to our proposed standard drafts as you know the architecture draft is just entered iatf last call this mormon morning there are some nits there now we wonder and this is not a question for ietf but i just want you all to be aware of the question whether we're also going to need to come up with a means of compliance draft to show how our"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:03",
    "text": "drip rfc is once published can be used to address the things that the astm f-3411 standard does not address which is primarily how to dynamically assign session ids ensure that they are trackable by authorized parties only back to the operator and the serial number of the aircraft and we had a successful field test last summer which we're going to do another one this summer and we're hoping at that point to check the interoperability of our prototypes with those of others and that is all i have thank you any comments or questions okay then thanks thank you any questions any questions any questions or comments nobody okay then thanks we'll move on to the next item on the agenda which is implementation hello everybody can you hear me well hi andre perfect okay so this is an update that we were developing in in shopping university with students regarding the implementation of drip protocols next slide so this is our reference architecture so there is like five components observer with android application up uh the drone with raspberry pi and other add-ons like gps and battery and when the registry based on eroja blockchain which keeps track of um drone data and then there are different types of users that can request this uh data from from blockchain so next i will describe like the progress of different"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:00",
    "text": "components so code is using open heap implementation of host identity protocol with different additions and it's a part which is open source so some changes which are coming because of change both with in hierarchical hits format we'll need to address that and second part is that mostly python trips to handle this registration and look up messages so it's not currently published but we work to do it towards end of year next slide so the the drone broadcasts things using stm format with drip additions based on extension of drone id and we experiment with wi-fi uh different modes as well as bluetooth 4 and bluetooth 5. we also have like registry implementation using eroja as i mentioned as well as extension of android app to to do the lookups based for web server next one so why irocan it's a blockchain that it's permission-based and it has some nice features so we actually did also some simulations to understand what kind of uh number of drones it can handle and it's quite promising so it's like let's say hundred of drones within uh certain limited geographical areas is supported in terms of transaction times and processing times and hence and next it's also next slide please it's also supporting uh some of all the requirements that specified in with drip registry draft so i hope it will be also included as one option in the future of um revision of registries uh rafat adam is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "promoting next so i'm now going to talk briefly about our experiments with bluetooth five quite many devices claim now they support bluetooth five but it seems like not all features are actually supported so for example raspberry pi 4 is not really supporting it well enough so we are trying to experience with a dongle and development kit rf52 f40 to sort of test the range and other features next slide i have a question yes um when you say it does not support um what is not support exactly um well as you know there are different profiles for example long range bluetooth 5 or low low battery bluetooth 5 so it means like it maybe supports some limited version of this okay okay um if you don't mind andre i'll expand on that a little bit basically a lot of hardware chips will support bluetooth 5 the spec is an extension of bluetooth 4 but all of the extensions for bluetooth 5 are optional the only one being back port to bluetooth 4. so you could have a chip that supports all the new features of bluetooth 5 but then the firmware running the chip doesn't and then the software above that at the os level doesn't and then the software above that doesn't so you get this layering problem of the chip will support all the stuff but the stuff above it won't and so you have to find the right match to do it so for example the only phone i've found that supports everything we need for bluetooth 5 is samsung galaxy s10 or s20 smartphones right so we were trying to address this for example by plugging this dongle into into raspberry pi 4 and but as you said there are some complications on firmware and driver level so we only had limited success with that so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:01",
    "text": "far next slide but yeah we have a script which using python extensions and when it's depending on which communication interface is active and available it will try to send wifi bacon mode upload to five or four and so on next slide so for wi-fi um it works but it's a short range maybe some less than 100 meters so we're also looking at the neighborhood awareness mode which is getting support in the recent phones however people like bob pointed out that now wi-fi beacons is a way to go but i'm not sure what's the level of support of that and the recent hardware we have to investigate next slide and this is the observer application it's based on uh open drone id extension as in as you can see it successfully receives h hits from the drones and displays location as well allows to query the database where registry based on user credentials next slide and regarding the bluetooth 5 we did some measurements it's not so easy to find like one kilometer open space in sweden so we actually had to go to the two lake and uh with this development kit we were able to reach about one nordic mile distance which is already much better than let's say 100 meters with wi-fi so once we uh kind of resolve this compatibility issue we will new to five in different devices hopefully it will be good means next slide so as you see these are components we have to combine and put it like add-on to to let's say a phantom drone so there is a raspberry pi uh for when there is battery hat and then where is gps so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "all of that should be like mounted on a drone to actually transmit this id data um well now actually there is model b of uh raspberry pi 4 so i hope it will have better uh bluetooth 5 support so maybe you can do without a dongle extension so simplifies things next slide and regarding openhip it's currently hosted on bit bucket so you can download the code here next so one of the things we were trying to do is to add the support for open ssl 30 because it's like latest crypto library which has all the latest ciphers and hashes and so on and the open hip is it's historically based on open sl one zero and then it was extended a little bit to one one zero but still like not the latest one next so it was kind of challenging because open heap uses a lot of sort of deprecated calls which are now not supported in ssl three zero anymore and when when you start changing one part it sort of leads to dependencies in the other parts so it was like basically almost rewrite of the code because it was like thousands of warnings and other stuff next slide but we kind of finished the update so the code is compiled but it's not well tested yet so we are maybe in autumn we will work on more um automatic tests to sort of uh and packet format tests to make sure it's like interoperable and compatible to the latest air fesis next also we were working about"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:01",
    "text": "not traversal implementation so you see this rfc 9028 is relatively fresh from from july uh so again we finished basic implementation but more testing is needed um but i'm curious to see your opinion uh like is it really helpful for for drip do we need uh to go like over utp or and use ice or we assume that we can have like always direct hip and ipsec you know in all cases maybe at least for the kind of remote registry access maybe it's useful next so we still there is something to do so there is like data relay server implementation to do and update the core simulator that we used for these use cases next please so what we are also doing is we are trying to do formal verification um like i know for example bob likes this idea that the security protocol should be formally verified and the last attempt to do it for hip i think it was uh like 10-15 years ago so we are now using more modern tool and also implement drip features and also we are involved in several eu projects which are targeting to do big scale demonstrations like almost a drone flying taxi or ambulance so for example there are some testbeds planned in norway scavander and in helsinki so try to put some prototype and hardware to these drones to broadcast remote id and xoro squam is another example that is also like large-scale demonstration so we plan to fly a big drone between two cities in sweden beyond light of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:00",
    "text": "sight so maybe one of first operations like that and it also would be nice to to have a drip as part of this thing and the final slide please yeah so this air more is focusing on emergency medical services because based on surveys it seems like it's a kind of application area that most people will support adoption of drones even if it's noise and some other features and you see there are some chinese models like which is already purchased and being tested and in norway and they of course waiting for some authorities permissions to actually start flying people in that so it's ongoing research and active area in new space in europe so that's it on my side if there are any comments questions you andre if anyone's got any questions or comments could you please put their hand up in the techo chat and then identify themselves when they speak also someone's speaking at all please see who they are for the benefit of everybody in the room stuart is taking notes and i'm sure he recognizes everybody's voice but there may be other people taking part in the meeting sorry stuart is um taking notes of this meeting and it probably recognizes everybody's voice but other people are in the room here or on the internet somewhere else might not recognize who's speaking something by yourself when you come to the mic thank you very much and help first question from daniel yeah so i have uh one question to andrew uh it's a um i mean i i don't see the the migration to open ssr three as a huge challenge but i just want to check if i am correct"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "well in terms of i mean yeah i mean it's uh if you have like legacy code it's like a lot of update it's uh almost like rewriting from scratch so i'm not sure about other people using hip are very going to do the operator okay because that's okay that's not the rip that's the on the hip side of it yes but you need heat right for for registering yeah yeah sure yeah i forgot this okay thanks bob pointing out as i said in the in the chat that um the value one of the big values of hip for the ua is going to be for network remote id and command and control um and not being locked into a single connection methodology he has demonstrated this already in his test over at the uas site there in fact in his neighborhood here in griffith international air force booth you can do that in previous sessions so uh uh you may think that this is orthogonal the the open hip discussion um but it is going to be important as we move forward to the next steps than being able just to well support the activities for um where we go beyond the basic broadcast messages when we start moving on to the network remote id and and support for better support for command and control that's it to clarify while"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "command and control itself uh does not lie strictly within the scope of the drip working group recreating applications based upon identity does and so that would include so-called detect and avoid command and control vehicle to infrastructure vehicle to vehicle etc daniel andreas presented one implementation um i guess two in adam as another implementation um did you do some uh interrupt interoperability test or um um are we aware of any other implementation at that point and uh um maybe if if that's possible um adam was too um can you just uh let us know um uh what you are implementing i mean uh are you doing the equivalent of uh androids or is that um more restrained or more specific i mean if it's possible i'd like to have some more detail i would be interested okay so this is a free time check here we are about 10 minutes late right now so keep it brief please adam do you want to take this or you want me to please go ahead okay so i'll make it very quick um adam and others at the new york uas test site are doing a tremendous amount of work in prototyping unfortunately the nature of our funding is such that it is a struggle to get any of it openly released we will continue the struggle next up all right yep thanks i hope everyone can hear me"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "uh so i'm gonna go over two topics today i'm gonna go over authentication formats and also the registries so i'll start with authentication formats because that'll be pretty pretty quick on us um so changing since 03 the fec section is now fully filled in it will need somewhat of an extensive review uh there were a couple small things that were changed on uh two of the formats appendix a was fully filled in with some diagrams and some text an appendix d was added for to do med's comment um so sir some still some pending issues as i said fec needs to get reviewed um i've noticed that with reed solomon especially in my implementation that you need a specific polynomial on both sides for the forward error correction to even properly work and i have run into an issue where i've had colliding polynomials so we might have to actually specify one in the draft i'm not sure how to approach this so i'd like some guidance on that or we can just work on it as a working group together the appendix d was to directly address a comment from med hopefully it satisfies his comment along with a conjunction with appendix a and then i need to loosen some language there's some weird language during some transition where manifest became the required and thing but it used to be wrapper but it seems like both can be used so i have to just fix some of the wording around in that to get it right uh for next steps on this draft i'm going to be sending it internally in ax enterprise to laura welch for an english language review she's very good at english and maybe not so much on the technical side but she'll be able to read through the draft make it readable to humans that are not technically as"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "savvy and help find any major issues um i actually just got the sector review uh right before this meeting so i'm gonna be responding to rich after this he's given some great comments and i believe we're ready for working group last call although the chairs can put their own opinion out on it so anything discussion wise on auth from anybody otherwise i'll continue straight into registries i'm going to take that as nothing so i'll go right into registries so this is the registries draft we're on version one now from zero zero so changes from zero zero uh this was a massive rewrite on my part the first push was an absolute mess i hated the document as it was so i took some time about a week and a half and really cleaned it up reorganized it there's some new sections in the introduction to get a high level of view of like a story of a typical life cycle using the registries in drip uh there was a whole section of attestations and certificates that was moved down into the appendix because inline it was getting really clunky to read the document there was some text added for key rollover and federation of registries which i'll touch on a little bit later and there was an attempt at merging high level points from the deep section 5 into the section 4 of this document i'm going to be working more with bob to make sure that i got all the pieces needed for that and massage any text there um the big change from this was sections seven and sections eight of zero zero were merged into one section section six so that would got a lot cleaner in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "formatting it was more fleshed out section seven uh in the original document was extremely technical and just very hard to read where section eight was more of prose and like a story and how registration works with the inner components they've been melded together in a lot hopefully an easier way to understand also epp and rdep sections were added and any examples that were shown in the epp section have been come have came out of the ax implementation so the title of the document is currently going to change when we go to o2 and the title will be drip entity tags registration and lookup and this is mainly the primary focus of the draft it's look up in the registration of deets and other information associated around the deed drip is not bound to dns epp or rdap um i think there might have been a little bit of a misconception that this was going to be the only way for it to work no that wasn't the intention it is we're going to use dns epp and rdap as a baseline to get something out the door standardized and working for deploying and then also drip is not exactly bound to the d it's just come up in previous meetings there was no there has been no other solution being put forward but if one does come later in the registries um the registration architecture that we currently have is strongly tied to the drip entity tags hid structure the raa hda split so if someone wants to write another registry draft either one they need to mimic the hid in their identifier or two produce a whole new registration architecture using their new um identifier format and hierarchy"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:00",
    "text": "um and that's a bridge we will go across if we need to but i tried to make it so that the document was clear that this ties with the deet and if something else comes along it would be a different draft so pending issues um there was a error on my part when i pushed i was asked to do a contributor section i accidentally copied and pasted the full acknowledgement section into the contributors section so scott allenbeck was pulled into the contributors section and i didn't realize i had done this so he has been pulled back out in a uh running version that's on my side and he's back as an acknowledgement uh andre was pulled as a contributor uh speaking of andre uh i actually oversighted and lost his text email um a couple months ago i found it again so i have the text again um and i will be adding it in uh per andre's uh presentation a little bit earlier um i don't know if this is an appendix or if it's going in line i believe it's an appendix and that's where i'm going to put it for now and then we'll go from there scott hollenbeck on the mailing list gave a really great suggestion in breaking the epp and rdap sections out into separate documents i like the suggestion but i want to feel the working group out to see if we want to do such a thing and add more documents to the listing um i need to work with bob and i've already discussed it with him about pulling text for the ra and hda into this draft so hopefully that will happen in the next couple of weeks and then i'll push o2 out um so the rest of this time well actually bob let's take your question because i"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "have plenty of time just uh quickly uh the top moving text up from rid to registries um just text from red to auth um we start with the text and read to get it kind of laid out and once the uh um where it belongs started um evolving um we moved the text so uh um dad and i will do it we'll be pulling checks out of red and moving it where it belongs in registries um so everything i think will be cool for everybody and then then i'll show up in the my next strap the red 18 draft and uh and and adam's next draft on registries thanks bob okay so i want to spend the rest of the 15 minutes of this to go over some registration process stuff um this is the first time i think this has been presented to the working group this has been internal uh to well basically myself and stu for the past year um and i'm finally getting the chance to kind of go a little bit more in detail to it just as a recap this is our registry tree diagram this is how the registries are laid out in hierarchy we have a single root registry which takes the values of 0 and 0 for the rea and the hda and then there's two branches of the tree there's a branch on the left that consists of the irm and the mra which is mostly dealing with serial numbers and then the branch on the right which deals with other raas mostly under civil aviation authorities and they have uh values of ras greater than two and hda is greater than one and then of course an unmanned aircraft would register with two different registries in the system one for its serial number and one for its session id and then with broadcast rate going to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:01",
    "text": "the observer and then dns and rdap lookups happening over the internet we have three major typical registration operations the serial number registration of the manufacturer into the mra and that's usually a d encoded as an ansi cta 2063-8 serial number and this is documented in the deep draft that bob has there's an operator registration at what is nominally would be considered a uss but it's actually specifically the remote id registry uh portion of drip and this key indeed would be used by the operator during session id registration and then finally session id registration also at that uss or that remote id registry and that is a deet proposed to be used by the ua during flight for that given flight so this is a z diagram it's not perfect there are some issues with this that i'd like to fix but to get us started um so this is serial number registration into the mre or the manufacturer's registry of aircraft basically at the start of time the manufacturer would build an unmanned aircraft they most likely will generate the key pair and the drip entity tag associated with that unmanned aircraft if the unmanned aircraft can't create the key pair itself uh and they would propose it to the manufacturer's registry using a self-attack station there's some internal stuff that goes on extracting the drip entity tag checking for collisions in both the database and the dns um so to make a comment that i've gotten from stu recently on these slides there's a reason that dns and database"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:01",
    "text": "are different or split apart on this the database mostly holds a personally identifiable information or pii or just other additional information in this particular scenario um we would be holding ua information the ua's weight how many rotors it has what color is it um make and model obviously what type of battery chemistry it has and this is so that people can easily look that stuff up and not have to scrape web pages once everything is completed though during a registration resource records are added into dns private information is added to the database the serial number the public key the the drip entity tag and any attestations that are produced are pushed into the unmanned aircraft in a secure element hopefully so this is two examples these are pulled from the drip registry draft as it is stands right now uh on the left is an epp uh command uh for registering a serial number and as you can see all of the fields here are you know make model color material those kinds of things that would end up in the database and then on the right is our inputs and our outputs and also our dns entries what fields of dns exist or what resource records in dns exist for a given serial number now while the serial number is useful and we can create a serial number using a deet and that helps for modules the real important one for drip is the session id which is what the deed is acting as it's acting as a uas uh session id"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "so a very similar process happens with a session id um hopefully the aircraft can create their own key pair um in this scenario so basically the operator would poke the aircraft it would generate its key pair send it along with a serial number and additional information around back to the operator who x is basically a middleman between the aircraft and the registry software passing it back and forth we have the same kinds of checks for collision checking with the deets and all the varying parts and once it's done importantly for this the broadcast attestation is generated and this is vital as in drip we require that the broadcast attestation be sent over the air uh in the authentication message this is what the auth draft is all about and this is where that broadcast attestation comes from and this is all handed back to the unmanned aircraft through the operator there are other ways to cut this cake um you know we could have the unmanned aircraft reach through an lte connection right to the remote id registry that is a valid way of doing it this is just one of a different many different ways to do this process again this is some examples so on the left which is not the same as the last slide these are the dns entries that would be in uh the remote id registry along with what inputs and outputs were needed for the registration to occur and then on the right is the epp is an example of the epp that is sent um there is a couple things in the uh epp that we have not discussed in this working group and one of the major things is the operational intent the operational intent is"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:00",
    "text": "basically the utm link back into utm to get the 4d volume box if uh the particip if they are participating in utm so some next steps on the registry draft i want some feedback on the epp examples that would be absolutely lovely um i need to produce some rdap examples we haven't gotten into that yet uh there as i said before there's i talked about some federations and key rollover it's an interesting topic because we're going to have to probably federate registries and with the h hit or the d acting as its identifier and the last 64 bits being the hash it'll be interesting to see how this works because the hid would be the same you could have a registry like the root registry 0 0 but you could produce 2 to the 64 keys and they'll all have different hashes but it's all technically the same registry so i'm curious how this would affect deployment and use of the system um i don't have any free cycles to explore that topic even on a crypto security level so if there's any takers for that that be really interesting and we can add that text into the draft and i hope to have an interim uh not directly after this but maybe a couple weeks a month from now as to focus on the z diagrams there the two z diagrams i showed you are two out of 22 uh z diagrams that i have um and there i would like to do a deep dive with the working group and anyone that's interested to understand the process and the flow that we've had in our heads for the past year and a half on how registries would work to get it into the draft a little bit"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "better and with that i think i'm ready just to take some discussion if anyone has anything to discuss for the first time i think i am not rushed for time and i have eight minutes thank you very much adam and that's a great job thank thank you any questions or comments going going gone if i maybe yep um i've only got one um and this at the moment this is mostly focused on um adam's uh registries draft where there's a question of how much detail to include on epp and rdap as specific techniques for implementing the registries and also to some extent on the architecture draft i feel like we kind of have a failure to commit here to achieve interoperability we need specifics and abstraction is a fine thing but getting abstractions right takes a long time and the bus is leaving the station with regard to regulations and manufacturers building application specific integrated circuits and so on so we're really going to have to come to some decisions rapidly on how much specific protocol detail to include in these documents versus how much to attempt to continue to remain abstract and then produce still more documents that will have the details uh slash ram welp the concern about the multiple um hits per rari or or hda is being issued that's actually how how key rollover will be achieved um and and how they'll be linked in registries so that was part of my original thoughts when i came up with"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:00",
    "text": "this idea um it's just that now adam and i are gonna have to sit down and get done over the over the next two months um so that that's uh in there it and it's as uh students that in an implementable way so i'll uh say this to a little bit to bob but just as in general so i knew that key role that that was used for key rollover but what struck me is interesting was that we have a root server hda ra0 hda0 and there's only one of them in the registry tree and obviously having that sync having it as a single server is a point of failure so you would probably want to have multiple root servers kind of like how dns works now um the problem with that in i think in our thing is is like if you want to have an asymmetric key pair to generate the hit and dust the deed etc you would need to have a different key on every box so if you had say seven root servers they're all going to have different key pairs how is this managed right because who you don't want a malicious party joining the club just because they created a key pair you would want to there needs to be some sort of control on that and this happens at every level of the registry tree and that was where my thought of federation and interest in the key role over in the keys came in but it is a discussion we need to have overall okay no more comments questions um bob i think you wanted to have a quick word about the status of the rid draft but i think that may have been overtaken by events judging by the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:01",
    "text": "comments um barely here i got my sound crank cranked all the way up but um just again on the slides for the rid that i have permitted our proposed are out there i put url again in the chat um it was also on the list basically um there's some med has a couple things he wants me to address um they are easy to do work on them next week uh ayanna says they are going to do a review of the new ayanna considerations um i added a lot of text in there so they may have a lot of comments um but uh ian and i will work that through uh but uh x i'm parked for the end of next week to have dash 18 out of any comments on what i haven't had 17 please get them to me in the beginning of the week so i can get them included thank you okay um so i have one more thing to add to the meeting this is what i get for not putting it on the slide um so this is to answer daniel a little bit earlier when uh andre had finished his presentation uh my intent if all the stars align and the universe is nice to me is that in philadelphia at ietf 114 i would like to do a demonstration of the ax implementation of uas remote id and i want to do a full um a full uh demonstration i'll have an aircraft i'll have a puck i will create well i'll have the software loaded on the puck but i will perform serial number registration and session id registration and fly the aircraft and pick it up with the ax uh android application so i do intend to have a implementation"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:00",
    "text": "share also to answer daniel from earlier uh ax has worked with another uh partner in utm that was developing a remote id uh application uh and it was not drip specific it was astm only but our implementation did work with theirs so we were able they were able to see our identifier we were able to see their identifier their side just kind of made it garbled garbage on their ui but that was because they didn't know how to decode it they just took the raw bytes and just displayed them and they were seeing all the pieces um they just didn't know what to do with all the pieces uh as for for with andre uh i would like to do an interrupt test with him uh we'll coordinate that somehow it's kind of hard to do an interop coordination when you're on the other side of the world at times but uh we i do intend to work with andre and get in uh interop with drip to drip uh maybe 114 is the answer maybe it isn't i'm not quite sure but as 114 draws closer we'll have a better picture on that okay okay thanks for the response has anyone got anything else to say i guess not okay this meeting of the dis working group has closed i would like to thank the speakers um and also for doing a fantastic job of keeping to the time even though i screwed it up at the start by being unable to make me tackle work properly and i'd also like to felt my fellow delegates to evan for his efforts today and also to eric for applying me take a clue whether it was badly needed so thank you to everybody and hope to see you all in philly cheers thank you yeah thanks everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:12",
    "text": "yeah i'd really just like to say thank you very much uh jim and stefan cheers much appreciated sure hope we can have a beer together in philly awesome uh okay yes"
  }
]
