[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:07",
    "text": "considered to be forwards and backwards hello Warren I see we\u0027re continuing our tradition of meeting in really weird rooms although I think the giant column in the middle of the room is maybe a new so hello welcome to IDR and at least we seem to have a room that\u0027s big enough that everyone can sit down who wants to sit down so that\u0027s something we have a note well it\u0027s the same note well that everybody else has only it\u0027s on a different template but you know and and less legible like says Jared thank you but you know despite the fact that that we see this so often that everybody\u0027s mental filters just filter directly out I hope that at some point you have read it and at some point you have noted it well and if you haven\u0027t you really should okay John and I will tag-team this we\u0027ve gone through a couple interesting months we thank everybody for meeting in an interim before Bangkok so that we could continue the working group business we have several holding patterns and I want to sort of let people know that there are holding patterns there may be chairs on the in the in in the difficult seating to the left folks if if you want to find some so we\u0027re waiting for 3575 bist completion and this miss was trying to get the current status of the 5575 updated we have Christoph called for feedback on implementations but we really haven\u0027t seen that and I\u0027ve got several other drafts that are waiting on it all the flow spec drafts will need to point to this new Biss as well as to drafts that were pretty much through working group last call flow spec OID and interface is set so I need to have feedback you can run to the mic or you can tell the chairs privately we really need to know how long we should hold this in order to get that implementation we\u0027d like to have a hundred percent but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:03:08",
    "text": "if you know about fifty five seventy-five implementation and can send it into the list we\u0027d appreciate it so question how long do we wait I\u0027m going to suggest tax day in the US April fifteenth that\u0027s always something useful it\u0027s a date that the US people always remember with bated breath we have the early allocation we extended to allocation pieces recently but we\u0027re coming up on several other allocation John and I would be thrilled to have implementation and send this to the is G so we don\u0027t have to go through another early allocation but we welcome sending this again we just need to know that there\u0027s work occurring do you have an implementation do you have something in progress that\u0027s what we needed for Eid distribution another question since we have two implementations is Eid distribution ready to go we sent it through a working group last call but we didn\u0027t get enough responses so please if you\u0027ve got this code base I will be sending out note saying are you ready to do working group last call because these these early allocation drives get first first bid it at that working group less cost oh well I other people had general concerns about going message size and error handling for BG p LS if it impact if it\u0027s BGP LS information is impacting the path you\u0027ll find that\u0027s part of the seventy six oh six car Vout and there are many small BGP LS draft to gate code points we\u0027ve made some good way forward I\u0027m declaring and you can come talk to me that the extended messages Draft is passing working group last call I will send this to the list tonight but if you have some major problem come argue with me after the the working group where I will send that out Bruno and all that I\u0027ve seen in mail that I could read seems to indicate we\u0027ve got some changes to the final draft but we\u0027re will come to sort of a consensus there it\u0027s rough until we get another round on the draft so please watch for that and we find there\u0027ll be a presentation on improved of seventy seven fifty to bits by Catan today we think that shows good progress in handling the air conditioning so we think this is a good progress and we\u0027re just going to let all the drafts for the BGP LS in assuming that implementers can do the right thing with the BGP LS and segment routing we do propose making it easier for drafts which are going from "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:08",
    "text": "the IGP and we\u0027ve talked to the LS our chairs and they\u0027ll query LS are so that if you have a code point in OSPF is is that you can just append that draft now that is for simple drafts and these drafts will be Co reviewed by IDR this is basically for the class of drafts where something\u0027s been defined in the IGP is and there\u0027s you know we can there\u0027s a whole little zoo of IDR drafts basically say this thing over here in the IGP we want an encoding in BG pls also you know we said that this should really just be you know in one document just give us the is is encoding the OSPF encoding and the BG pls encoding there\u0027s no need to have a second document for rest we think there are more useful things to do with your life then write in another draft like that I see Catan not as head okay there are these adoption requests please review them I will begin to cycle those out now that we\u0027ve made that progress if you are ready and want to come up and tell me that then I will start your drafts shortly given a one-week hiatus most people do not speak to us a week after ITF while they catch up on everything else so I will start it on the six or so of April so please let me know there is another adoption across from heights IDR MSTP bgp aggregation after we do the presentation today we\u0027ll get a sense of how quickly we need to work that that was from November but let\u0027s see where we don\u0027t have a presentation on that today do we is it on Thursday or didn\u0027t Jacob do you have another presentation on this this time or did I miss that okay then we\u0027ll start the adoption unless you have something you want to say about it I\u0027ll leave that to open time on on Thursday in case you wanna we still have some time if you wanted a status update since I haven\u0027t started adoption but my plan is to send it forward to adoption request is that good okay partial implementation reports this is where we get stuck and I need some input from the group we have two implementation you know we have a to implementation rule but we have four draft ID our BGP best path selection criteria with two implementations from Cisco and two of their trains plus a partial for June / is this enough Jeff I believe it was still a partial okay then if it\u0027s enough please let me know and I\u0027ll go forward "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:09:08",
    "text": "I\u0027m intending to do it because this has been sitting there for six or so years with these implementations in the field we have BGP tagged implementations again with two Cisco\u0027s we have rumors of others we do need some indication from the working group and tunnel and caps John will cover yeah so the part of the sticking point on tunneling caps is that sort of if we head it to go back and do again I think that may be what we would do is produce a you know the infrastructure piece of it progress that and then produce individual or you know omnibus whatever but a separate document that had different tunneling technology implementations so as it stands right now the the document you know it has everything in one place so great smaller document set but the problem is that not only does nobody have a full implementation of the whole thing but it\u0027s unreasonable to expect that anybody ever will have an implementation of every single tunnel type that\u0027s in that document so my feeling is that our you know a requirement for implementation on that should be that you know we sit down look at the document and say okay this stuff is the fundamental stuff and do we have implementation of that and at least on top of it and I\u0027d be glad to take feedback you know on that strategy either Jenna and I really need your feedback on these partial implementation reports because we\u0027d like to clear our deck but we we got to clearing the deck and we found sticking points so we just need some advice if we get no if we do not receive advice from you will just try to do the right thing and you can complain and yeah I still need implementations for these three drafts they sit there and implementation I did get the implementation status working on the webpage so you note that it\u0027s past working group last call okay if I missed yours it is possible send me email come up and send it so we can cycle through these fairly quickly we will do working group adoption or last call pretty promptly in two weeks so if it\u0027s your turn be ready because if you don\u0027t get enough response or you get if you don\u0027t resolve the conflicts yourself or ask for help to resolve the conflicts it will go to the back of the line so if will help yourself get through the process I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:08",
    "text": "we\u0027re done you you can pick I think if you stand on the pink heck you want to stand close to the X yep okay yeah so this is a gem from China come I just want to make some Appetit updation for our draft about the VA people have an existing foreign interest abroad issue everybody here okay so there are three part the first thing that I just make it as seen our summary as for for a person to be first to first meet her are the first time it was say our doctor secondly in the object SaLuSa and listen us in our summary you know in our network we show the fully topological we help run backbone and about several hundred men are or IDC connected to the backbone and we want to keep our only position controller so we run true to the end-to-end traffic in the area so first we must get the underlying apology from from a rotary in media network so what country that pts occur only gets the information from Oh run Tommy so in Nina some would find some solution to the truth interests of logic so the red graph is just the abstract apology you know there are two two different ID quit AMI and the connected to each other and the ITB Mme trunking protocol we want enterprise people I see you only one neutral in the issue Tamiya so your PC concern you to collect the intro Tommy ecology and let me construct the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:15:11",
    "text": "interest logically true scenario for this for resistors in the first day in the native native is narrow this is the original solution for network is scenario they just want to lead his people connect interface as as they SPR and carrier or argue information we the pts predict an eye right so the controller after Kathy needs the information control car they constructed the taraji and between different days the sickness analogy for the key key narrow proposal and the Sri theory we in the link layer are for logic reconstruction after considering the some communication and complex in complexity of the PC 16 in pragmatism we we hurry judgment to a pro pro program new interest because a ravine to Denise is you know if we put the information in the organ or pgps on air are you know because the trend for the interest link located in the different IT tamiya so there you know vehicle for the limited not even myself you know actually the the interest link just the it actually one single in the link and it is similarly the low back interface so we think you can\u0027t you know defying the in velocity LR it may be better to implementation and also for the further distinguish be interested in country in short a unique so he sees the benefit for the newly defined you know I saw the first thing is there you know and you candy I\u0027m guilty I\u0027m guilty for the Lincoln right and the second is a meaningful for controller to filter in hers lianca if we use a measure described in the previous chapter we must pass the packet interlink descriptor and then finally interesting and the interest in Troy\u0027s League the so the benefit is such a solution can also be used for native eyepiece scenario eloquently we for network using our way just your the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:12",
    "text": "distribution and different this different approach through the solution sorry if you use the newly defined you know it can many not to do so we just need to the usual passive mode for inherently Inca so the pencil mode pencil ink also character as one end link so based on this is Rosa we can unify the source of all key and the new addition arrow so this is the our petition for the interest of lodge in each shoe so any comment during Question and Answer I\u0027m going to work on getting the next slides up but please go ahead and come to the mic if you have questions thank you I am quite more from Maui today I\u0027m going to talk about the EGP extinctions for srt-6 second body allocation so right now we know for PGP unless we have for a lot of informations such as negating information and those the news that the information includes te so right now PGP also to the signal routing policy so when we do that we also a locate some and managing some resource information so from this front view is nature and also beneficial to let PGP e to allocate and manager SRP basics segment only IDs because these IDs can also be considered as a some kind of resource so here we were to consider some extensions to allocate two kinds of IDs why is for SF physics note note second alone Heidi another one is for SF physics agency IDs so basically the extension is based on bTW pls so for PG pls we just good collecting informations from Network here we go on another direction so we allocate ID and then not be GPRS sender those IDs to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:21:13",
    "text": "some elements of the network so here we just introduced a new product ID so when we use new product ID then we the information vehicle and in a massive direction so for segments the routing v6 ID so we just using the existing architecture or structure for the SIV for collecting SIDS so here with just the strength it\u0027ll be the extension just so we\u0027re here we include node ID and location PRV so both trv will contain the information for sr physics second-round ID and the relating informations here basically we we just contain a to t RVs 1 t RV well for the second routing ID for physics so another one is for locators so these are two information so will be enough for the segment segment routing v6 IDs so another type of IV is a 4h agency for HSN IDs for HSN IDs we also use using this same structure from the peach pls but here we use also we use a new product ID so this new product ID we use this new product ID and then that information via KO in another direction so here for sr3 6h ASIS an ID y is 4 for the polling and that\u0027s why it\u0027s for markers link so for print important link the information for these two type of adjacency IDs the information is the almost same only difference is that for mod caster adjacent ID we use another remoter sized ID so for the remote side the ID label well tidy because we have two different protocols wines for ISS are not white sauce yet so because those are ID the lens of that idea is different so for all three F which is a user for robots so for SS we need six packs so here we just introduce a new flag cover all all means of maybe also here so we the ID will be four bytes and then if we is not oh and then this is is the sixth face so that\u0027s the difference so any questions and for this one you could Cisco so I\u0027d "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:13",
    "text": "like to bring out one aspect of this draft and there is similar draft for SR MPLS which is also for adoption so until now all the bitch pls draft in all the fluid that we have had are for reporting information from the router to or consumer or any application like a PC or something like that these couple of drafts are are using PGP LS as a provisioning tool as a provisioning mechanism so we are talking about somebody from the top going and allocating saves on routers I think this is a major shift or change you whatever we have had so far in gujja pls so I have some concerns and I think we should be very careful we are taking this okay Tom can you list your concerns or send him to the mail list yes sure either one works if you wanted to we have enough time if you wanted to mention them today in fact we discussed with the customers so do you have this concern about this is the scalability of the SRA six because now this for the SR v6 to the seed maybe need a more configuration than the s armchairs in fact the two or three years ago we proposed as a draft that\u0027s the we tried to yield the people in the state that were allocated as our label yeah but here we try that who probable way to distributed to allocate at this the SR seed essentially to release the concern on the scalability that\u0027s here but here I seen that that\u0027s here you would the people in the CS data you the single-use adjusted who introduced oh the extended TR we like this one yeah but maybe we\u0027ve seen that as a PDP will be used widely for the Isar implementation so I think that even use not the PDP being state maybe we also can utilize the other extensions of the PDP for this purpose to allocated as I said a synonym Cisco Systems anyway anyway I was just going to comment that we have I mean I don\u0027t want to lock anybody into one operational model but we do have these things in the SR yang model for both OSPF and is is so that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:27:15",
    "text": "would be one wait it\u0027s not like you couldn\u0027t do that I mean we have NP RS now but there\u0027s extended there\u0027s also SR v6 as well MPLS parties are is is on its way to working group last call this our v6 is pretty new for this young model but this is new as well the liquor Cisco so there are lots of things to be provision on routers and lots and lots of them the mechanism that we used for that for seeds and locators and all they are fairly more like a provisioning or a configuration stuff they are not like dynamics things like for example we have BGP SRD extension the signal s are policies but they are more dynamic control plane kind of a thing right here it\u0027s it\u0027s relatively more stable it\u0027s the initial configuration kind of a thing so I think the young models and other provisioning mechanism that we have is sufficient and I would really question introducing this YouTube BTW pls yes Tom please go ahead and respond I think mmm because right now you see PGP already have attention for a second my routing policy so those are when we do Madeline we also needed to use a resource and also elected which was right so that\u0027s a those segments routing staff is also thanked by PPTP and also the PGP wesen those information to the equipment in the network right so here this is a just an average attention so just a litte bit more attention to do need more scenes for example signal routing IDE so as an Robbie mentioned that so you may be we we do extension to PG BLS but we can do general to e change into PGP so this is a another way because these are massive a have a lot of enemies for example is most scalable so you can do that again CRI or whatever young model yeah that\u0027s that\u0027s a nice way of course but these are just provider and answer options this option they have more benefits and then maybe someone like this one so just one because we just proposed this one and then we can have more discussions so I have two comments to make but the first one is kind of me as an individual contributor and it\u0027s just because you can do anything with any protocol doesn\u0027t mean you should and the second is more with my working group co-chair hat on and it is that although we do a lot of SR stuff in this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:16",
    "text": "group and you know the IGP groups do the same we do you know we have a spring working role perches chartered with the segment writing architecture and it seems to me like a bunch of what we\u0027ve been talking about just now is more an architectural question than a you know dynamic routing how do we arrange the bits on the wire so I think it would not be a bad idea have you presented this or taking this to a spring you know okay I I would suggest you at least go in touch of the spring chairs and make them aware of this and ask you know it does seem like the architectural part of the discussion is appropriate for spring and unless there are any other questions or comments I think we\u0027re ready for the next person thank you welcome policy distribution so this is already was in full so this one I think the first option we\u0027re already present that last time just give us summarize so first first of option just we - extension in the action field so we just introduced a new piece so this until I copied well when this new flag they are is set then that means there is a for our routing policy distribution so those are rotten policy is the included by extension a little bit extension to the white community so that we use a new athleisure fee and then under that one we have run you and now our I so this tie so under this knot and now our I we also will use the white communities or why the community is the same for two options so for attention to our white community we just you tended a cup of tea RVs so right now in Y the community so though already define that here these they have a placard Calvi and the parameters TLV so for the faculty RV we interviewed we define a new wealth attribute ERV so these are all attribute LV in fact just that defies the matching matching conditions so for this attribute ERV we devised a three new Saboteur of these this suffered through several degrees of one user for IP predicts and that\u0027s why the a is mass the third one is a community so for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:33:17",
    "text": "IP prefix operator V we just define this IP prefix the matching type and then IP address and then mask and then the great mask and then the last mask so we couldn\u0027t have a mod for this of visible items so this star between V will define the matching conditions so here for example for about matching type we can have for exactly match well we can have a range we have was four options so for example if we have an exact match in this case we just gave IP address and then the mask and their mask mask events so in this case with doesn\u0027t match this exact IP prefix base of matching condition so another one you tell me that we can give a range master branch so in this case we the mask type is the three he so we give IP address masculine 24 and then the grief mask is also 24 and then the last master is a 32 so in this case that means that we would like much this IP prefix 18.1 slash 24 so from masculine 24 grid on this one and worse than 32 so we give a mask already so these are sample TV just the define one couple for matching conditions so we also define for the this for so for ipv6 similar Sabbat lv will also define stop deuce upper tier v called the passivity of V so V sub T of V just gives regular expressions for the matching condition to suit the server lines for communities so this one just the Beast and Lambeau from communities so the mark this gives us a much matching condition is that we need to satisfy all these communities so this is for matching condition so also because in the white community will have high level tier V order parameters T of V so I promised here V with the finest to new service to Delta V is the pivot just indicates the operations so one operation is about ma ma ma e d operation so we can when matching condition satisfied and then we can do some operations so here for example for meed we can have raw justice at the m82 a given value here and then we can add "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:19",
    "text": "and then we can stop track so this is a operation for the ME ME D so another one is a some kind of a change to a as pass so we can add a sequence of s to existing as the past so these are sequences of alas numbers we can define about this is not Patel fees so we can have a number one and then this s a number one maybe a repeater number times and I\u0027m so long and as burn repeated sometimes a general structure to indicate that secrets of our members and and this secrets of a syllabus and then attach to the using as a pass so that\u0027s all and any comments I feel previous John\u0027s comment applies but besides the point was my feedback loop so I want to install an entry and how do I know whether it has been installed who\u0027s going to tell me that these prefixes actually has been applied and for where you can working yes [Music] serious question the committee draft the community Java in the copyright if you mean this one yeah this one is a depend on the committee white communities job that was didn\u0027t though some time either I don\u0027t think that was the question do you want to try to restate it a different way yes you\u0027re configuring things I want to know my personal state after configuration has been done so how do convey my operational state or derive state with BGP so you mean you configure on the beach some controller so depart right for the policy so this policy will distribute to the agent or whatever so you want to verify whether you\u0027re confused in that and I want counters I want everything I usually do is policies yes you can use a CLI to check whether you need to configure in Co later issued counters we may have more walk right we can do more to detect their what whether we wear stuff there right I have a question for you Jeff how does that work with flowspec same way you you just see like it\u0027s a serious question and yeah yes a machine for example for PGP policy our segment of policy and then we distributed the talk note how can we verify our stuff is there as a what have we expected right this one a similar scene so we configured some kind of policy which is dribble there and what happening in there is what we expected "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:39:21",
    "text": "under those equipment so I I think we need to have have some work there to really detect what\u0027s there the only thing could be in the GPS will drop if it was no prefix right by the way I just like to remind people to please state your name that\u0027s very practical stuff right because you do something you want to see something that\u0027s right kristef lobby next layer since yes about flowspec i don\u0027t think this is the right vehicle for this so there were two options actually but I don\u0027t see any similarities that can be used back you have like so many different components in there to suggest in flowspec be used for there so I was just trying to say there you know this isn\u0027t the first time with BGP that there\u0027s you know yeah actually I want to imagine that also we don\u0027t have this feedback for many existing money situations like a flows back like the always have is there SRT policy we need as a maxim to give the feedback to the back to the controller so I think this is such a narrow case for this one maybe also need to consider that a cylinder mass Cisco Systems yeah I I think in response to that the good thing about as primitive as is just applying a policy you do have you\u0027re not one level removed so when you send a community you don\u0027t know that everybody supports it you know whereas if you do uh rest confer or net cough you get an RPC response right back saying whether it was worked or not you get you get immediate feedback but the other thing I\u0027d like to say is operationally what dynamics what it damage does this have over just provision in it using you know Netcom for restaurant what\u0027s the what\u0027s the advantage yeah that\u0027s a good question I think in the you know because this is a version pol I think in the previous presentation people already take a why we need this one so the reason is that you know those who trafficker is a dynamic and then the policy is not a means manually sometimes we need to adjust or reoptimize those of house so for example we have a statically configure some pass and then those traffic go through that that pass but because the traffic is dynamic and then maybe that pass is too crowded and then we needed to revolt with select another possible was so in this case we can do manually change it configuration and then change the traffic and then here if we have this one right but but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:23",
    "text": "you know there are you know there are products that do this today with proprietary Co eyes for people that monitor traffic and push BGP stuff all over the network and do this already ya know I mean in any and they could be vastly improved just by using just by using say restaurants - what - what they\u0027re doing in common models that would improve them so I think if you just take those and improve it with res comm you\u0027d have the same advantage with none of the complexity yeah because I wonder what we can yeah I\u0027d like to close right after Jacob by the way in fact I I we also have however used as the CRI or the net comma for such the facetious such as the perverse but we have a feast asam the Challenger the first DC of the CRI I think there\u0027s the in her ability usual and I second why use a performance a usual so this is a wide way you think are that you would the BGP there\u0027s a user for the professor so we\u0027re saying audacity the kind of how it can be standardized and also there\u0027s a father in her ability and also the sau the better performance than the Sarah Robin Robin Robin can I can I just get a tag on for a clarification from Robin if he comes back Robin is it due to the multicast feature of the BGP distributions that that you find the improvement sort is it is it the fact that BGP it is point you know one point sender goes to multi-point receivers that provides the scalability that seem to be in your response is that did I understand that correctly I think that\u0027s what we here we have this as a um father as a policy that is tribute either they had a similar this is our usual but we\u0027re seeing Edessa you know already less such as solutions yep okay I\u0027ll take that as a solid yes that it\u0027s already buing that\u0027s what I\u0027ve picked up from spring so folks I think that\u0027s what I took out of out of Robins comment is there is this one sender to multicast receivers for BGP that isn\u0027t true in many of the Netcom situations AC you know that might be something for them that come people to think about that problem of scaling and I think that\u0027s that\u0027s really what you\u0027re hearing a lot of feedback on thank you Robin take apart from Cisco Systems this tendency to use PGP to send stuff over all red that\u0027s fine and not having the receiving the response back now so we have stuff like Nick come to duties or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:45:24",
    "text": "RPC to do this and get the feedback now the reason they use BGP to do some of these things is to go into a is where one a is asks for flowspec to be installed by another a is and that a is may or may not accept it in that\u0027s his prerogative to accept it or not accept it right so that\u0027s why we use PGP because we want to send it from one a is to another is my is this what\u0027s required in this case I learned I believe in this draft you see we also mentioned that this apply to the Marvel s because I want to get the traffic from this s to another s remotely that\u0027s the tricky there will pay later later check it out Yuna seems policy from runners to install the policy to swap clothes be different here in the you know we we you play more details how we get from because you see the policy is locally and how can we get a trafficker change the from the other yes so I think we have for something there I think what makes presentations thank you [Music] okay um can you hear me all right this is what these are working okay so I\u0027m gonna talk a little bit about can folks here Linda yes speak up with the mic closer okay sd1 okay so there are several drafts sd-1 already in the RTG working good we have a problem statement and general gap analysis impasse we have secured a VPN and secure else really pn and so for the SD when CA I\u0027m talking about some of them different aspect so st one here we have two scenarios one is like you have a branch office remote branch office say in a shopping mall in cloud data center where you initiate either a UC PE or virtual CPE and using the internet to connect to your corporate VPN so that other traffic coming to this you see P of virtual CPE has to be encrypted and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:27",
    "text": "to go through any public network there\u0027s another scenario where that like typical enterprise today have a CPE interconnect by the provider VPN and today they want to be able to utilize some additional bandwidth they also purchase for internet access so they basically can upgrade their CPE to have extra ports connect to the internet and they have existing ports connecting to the provider VPN so for this case where that traffic going through the existing private network goes through them natively they don\u0027t need to do encryption because encryption is very expensive - in addition to the key management the encryption self is very process intensive and only the traffic go to the untrusted Network need to be encrypted and the users it is really the use of policy some traffic they have to go through private network doesn\u0027t matter how congested you are the private network is some traffic can go to either one if the private network has bandwidth goes through private network unencrypted natively if the private network is congested or reaching certain threshold goes through the public network but it\u0027s very important to be encrypted so that\u0027s for the CPEs perspective there\u0027s also service providers and today they\u0027re interconnecting by private links private lease lines and for some transit demand for increasing bandwidth instead of putting the infrastructure to add the bandwidth on today\u0027s many of the service providers do want to utilize available public network so for their PE they can add a port which can interconnect to the public network with the encryption so so if we down to the deep we have those three cases so for the first case everything encrypted and it\u0027s relatively easier to to handle basically in addition to today\u0027s l3 VPN or VPN to X to manage the client routes and everything is encrypted but for this that we call hybrid network where you have some ports facing the private some ports facing the Internet there are some additional challenges to be brought into one part being that those ports facing the public network their IP addresses can be assigned by the ice piece depending on who you buy service from some private some of those when ports "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:51:30",
    "text": "can be dynamically assigned IP addresses some of those web ports can be using private right so those web ports need to be managed managed on the on-demand basically so one part of them st-1 notes is really the thermal property meaning note can be instantiated on the fly and being removed based on demand so it is very important to have the protocols to be able to handle those when ports are management in some of the deployments today some vendors using HRP and to manage the web port management but they have to do some extensions and so instead of using an HR P we\u0027re advocating to using PGP because all those CPEs already have to support EGP anyway so with little extension to manage the wind port make it scale better so the wind port management is really about registering is public IP address private IP addresses many facing the wind interface the the uplink not the private for the client side is we\u0027re using the same mechanism as today so each CPEs need to register his assigned eyes we assign IP addresses his loopback addresses and also the the controller need to be able to manage the adjacency because you could have one CPE here in Park you could have another CPE another country and so the controller has to be able to manage the adjacencies through the public network well another property is the controller connection to the CPE actually is through the public network so that\u0027s slightly different from today\u0027s private network where your controller or out reflectors are connected to your ease through the secure Network so for that purpose for managing the Wang ports we\u0027re introducing a new I and to register for that CP to register to the controller so coupled with this new and I we have this newly assigned Safi just a couple with just solely pot for the purpose of managing as one ports and so here is the new I structure we defined them as t1 type we defined the port ID we also define a site ID site ID is really a property shared by a set of sty "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:30",
    "text": "nodes because you could have a set of SD windows sharing a common property the property could be regulatory purpose could be have some common locations your location some traffic has to go through and then you have the node ID which can be ipv4 ipv6 addresses so for the sd1 know since they can be far apart and in different locations who connected by the public network it is depending on the controller in this case the are to manage the peering group so that see here I just use example one CP in Dallas one CP in Beijing and they actually belong to one group another group may be is in different locations so all those when port address propagation is policy by the PPR and then for the port itself like when you want to register your color your port properties the web portal T\u0027s you will have your address your private address if you use net and what kind of net do you use we\u0027re kind of and your public address so this is the extended port properties so that\u0027s it and if you have any questions you can ask me and we have what general the sd1 then we have discussion in the RTG working group early science is consistent so we have another draft in the best interest last ITF and we had a couple of offline meetings going through the different use cases and I was explaining how we can meet all these use cases with that draft right so why do we need another way of doing the same time okay so for the draft I\u0027m reading discussing is really about the client routes being propagated by the BGP right you\u0027re talking about how do we map and look like that\u0027s the homie homogeneous no we discussed both homogeneous as well as heterogeneous and I will I was explaining how we can do both of them okay so here it is not clear okay the reason for this is really for the wind port management because today when you have a CPE you use CLI to manage all the ports you configured at the run ports right you configure what kind of interface you connected to but for this for the CPE itself for the sd1 CPE we\u0027re talking about zero-touch provisioning the know being created by self right and "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:57:30",
    "text": "the web ports they could have dynamic address and those addresses need to be reported to the controller so this is a totally different aspect from what we\u0027ve been discussing so the common denominator regardless of the LAN ports whether it gets dynamically allocated or aesthetically allocated or whether it is from the public pool or private pool basically we need to be able to allow for the multiple of such ports to be flexible to have set up the different okay punky sectionals is going to among them and be able to map different traffic flows to the different IP SEC Tournament so guys time we\u0027ve hit the time limit so we\u0027re gonna cut the line sorry after Ellie and Allie I suggest that you and Linda should provide this discussion in writing on the mailers we have I like to also request to be fully articulated what aspects and all these use cases cannot be fulfilled with the others I I think my point is you should have the discussion or video on the email list and you should both provide your points of yes or no okay okay so folks can continue Wednesday right yeah so please continue this interesting debate on the list III really not just best list on idealist since it\u0027s a proposal guys if we\u0027re having side conversations I\u0027m gonna pull it Allie please mister please you can also attach it to so checksum and a timestamp in it this is its elements a prefix get propagated [Music] each rattle its element and its element will consist of a number of two ways "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:31",
    "text": "either or and checksum and timestamp the element also identifies the speaker with its acing and rattle ID the timestamp in a checksum also updated at different times for different portions all within its received after be to update generation to allocate to the right key so right now in the publication so the point of this is that it doesn\u0027t go so it\u0027s non-transitive so that the configuration to make a propagate no I had a question from someone else she is so from respective understand for she would date her you have completely lost motivation if only this thing could benefit if you explained why would you do this because that could have been so much easier how to take some stages so when I did but it would have been easily timestamp you know when you\u0027ve got keys within your process you can you can say oh the keys will be wrong because one times ten to the next time stamp you can figure out if you got multiple routers which between you travels to delay you can find routing loops because each of the rattles in in the oscillation each this idea is popped up before at least for the time stamp piece Stefan cater and myself did a draft uh three years back I think idea our time stamp you want to go dig for it so idea it we thought was "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:03:32",
    "text": "good we ran into not only the problems that you\u0027re talking about here in terms of you know like incremental deployments as ugly things to state compression because you have time stamp sort of colliding it\u0027s a router you have to pick one of them and you no longer able to compress the routes quite as well so the idea is not bad but it does have a lot of interesting fall outs and that sort of motivate us at the time to say this might not actually be worth pursuing happy to talk to you about what we figured out could you go a little bit more into the checksum thing because that one seems a little weird to be just for packing that sometimes is a problem it\u0027s not a problem but you need to be mindful which is fine but this gives you information but the idea was a good one and we actually discussed that in some cases probe packets no picking a prefix that isn\u0027t used for forwarding yeah may be a good way to avoid some of these issues so again like I said I\u0027m not challenging the idea just that we ran into enough of the issues what we did this last round that we decided to stop it\u0027s all so much but again the thing I was asking about past that was the checksum I don\u0027t understand that specific use case several bugs will say that the case that this is probably more apt for is when the PGP stack may also be tightly coupled to the TCP stack yeah okay that makes more sense thank you yeah yeah I know these are ticks on in TCP so so between routers well TCP takes on already catching but this is BTP interfaces with TCP or when TCP singing something to the standby and you get segmentation reassembly going on inside the box this is more so the chicks on Pat is really more for vendors foreign bugs or I mean the prefix so it doesn\u0027t "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:06:41",
    "text": "happen to Avery prefix and there\u0027s a good one I can\u0027t go to the previous lies the pitiful yeah here I I\u0027m little confused maybe I miss this I\u0027m seeing so here just as to record that time stabber for the various processing stages I\u0027m not sure this means the local processing because of our my apology for the local process in the state why this information should be propagated and another question because this is out there and Tara knows the information you need the PGP why not use the PM here to collect the information for the monitoring orthogonals that\u0027s okay okay I\u0027ve got to be in pain and so there are multiple streaming telemetry tools you can use more and more change you have yeah yeah so your question should be propagated on issues with the propagator one the next one you know it\u0027s up to him so so now you can see the propagation between routers and within different stages as well like gives you information again you don\u0027t normally turn your song attendance on when you have a problem and you can focus you know queue buildups typically are very transient so it\u0027d be interesting or at least if if you have a justification to what you have said earlier if you have a use cases that are laid out in that draft that would be nice as to when to inject this when not to inject this because it\u0027s really hard to figure out queue buildups and by the time you get to it probably the problem is gone and the second thing is what robin said if you were to sum do something like this if you can outline how this is way better than the existing solutions like BMP it\u0027d be great also I\u0027m not sure I need to do it no I\u0027m not implemented I think so the one place that came up in the prior versions of this stuff that we discussed is that sure seeing when it pops out on the wires useful thing BM he can give you that harder the motivation is where do you do the time stamping do you do it before or do you do it after this was the thing that we got we discussed because part of what you\u0027re tracing in some of these cases is the flow of where "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:09:41",
    "text": "things are passing through individual pieces that Beach be pipeline across many routers so being able to see that on receipt you got it at a time stack epochs and export you do x y that gives you an idea that there\u0027s inner system latency of some sort within a box and you can\u0027t cleanly get that sometimes from just being P data so there is motivation for something just beyond BMP yeah okay so so so various stages from TCP when you start the update generation we need the replication information the TCP different implementations have different stages and so I didn\u0027t want to get specific about standardizing in each of the stage because everybody\u0027s a little different so you put your own numbers in for whatever you don\u0027t this sounds like a great thing to continue over a beer thank you for a interesting talk and I think for hard to come up Thanks oh yeah Jacob do you want to circle and ask that in a day after talking to folks Ruth want to ask for working group adoption now I just want to make sure [Music] okay right one let me go through what this draft is all about the inter a is te extensions for the BGP LS to support the EPE basically you know we saw the draft which talks about what if since I GP and this draft is not about ITB the second strap is about what if you are doing BGP EPE and which BLS extensions to do that for interest facility just as a background there are these two drafts specifically the one that\u0027s routing a PE which I believe it\u0027s refresh to 18 it describes the mechanism to carry the BGP peering segments in bt pls and it also refers to a seven seven 52 with lot of link attributes codes and things of that but what I saw is what what we\u0027ve seen is there are some gaps up for specificity to the port interest multi-hop ebgp 40 purposes okay so let\u0027s look at this diagram you can generalize this diagram to be having multiple bgp sessions between two routers one could be per in just families depending what you want to configure liquid multiple interfaces to that and the key is if it is you know under single administer to domain for these multi places then the thing that "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:12:44",
    "text": "we are missing in this is there is no mechanism to show is any link used for if our protection if it is how am i communicating in the same so what we are proposing is there are multiple flags VL BP but we are introducing a F bit which says this particular said is being used for a Farrar so that way when there\u0027s a failure or we know the traffic is going through that and therefore the consumer the application consumer can figure out that you know that particular link is being used especially interests at this point having reviewed your your previous staffed on this that talks about the inter AAS was it known that fast reroute was going to be a problem when you wrote the first set of segments routing information you know was it discovered in deployment or was this just always planned as the second phase okay because I remember some comments from Alvaro or maybe it was just in this general area maybe he\u0027s running to the mic I\u0027m not running to the mic I\u0027m just standing here already so I was I\u0027ve been reading the other draft right now because it\u0027s Mike here and I think that a little bit be says that means that the prefix is eligible for backup yes and so what you\u0027re saying is that F tells me which link I could use for the backup okay so so the question that they have is that I when I did my review of the EP draft I asked the authors of that draft so okay what the heck do you do with the beep yet because okay it\u0027s a little backup but so what right and the answer that I got back was that it\u0027s implementation specific somehow you figure out the other link and somehow you and you know I remember probably that because the the draft already dated through the working group and apparently all of you read it and you agreed that it was influenced in specific now what you\u0027re saying here is that I am actually signaling what the backup could be so that means that there\u0027s some contradiction between the two things two drafts yeah so I\u0027m not saying that you shouldn\u0027t progress this draft what I\u0027m saying is that the working group should think about this because I can\u0027t say that ceiling for backup eligibility is implementation specific and that we\u0027re not going to specify what to do and then we\u0027re going to specify what right so either we specify it or we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:15:44",
    "text": "don\u0027t and because that draft is still not published and we still we still have a lot of time to discuss that here I mean it\u0027s great that you brought this up now so that the working group can decide can can can talk about that and targeting off of lburrows you know he and I probably wondered about the same thing as it as how it would actually work in an implementation I couldn\u0027t quite imagine but I\u0027m not an implementer of SR if this is really something you\u0027ve discovered an implementation it might be something that gives more meat and substance to that particular section so I\u0027m thrilled to see this draft I\u0027m just I\u0027m asking like alvaro bid so uh how do I put it with the other draft and maybe it\u0027s worth a conversation with the authors and then maybe I\u0027d like you to explain it to the working group here because we might have to go back with that with that P I could ask okay shall we continue the racket on is this appropriate for right now or can we wait until the end of the presentation I mean up to the follow up to all go ahead yeah I just wanted to follow so the B bit what I what I think I replied to the review was implementation specific is how they\u0027re out how the load determines what would be back up Luke that could be used for Fri and since you are talking BGP here really what\u0027s the what\u0027s my other pairing to the same yes or how can I reach there in a loop free manner and all of those considerations are not really something that has been specified or covered by things like you know LFA FRR that we have so that point is a local decision it could be really provision by the operator who knows how the pairings are done and as such that backup is saying so all that would be bit is saying that this is protected by a 4r and that\u0027s about it it doesn\u0027t really we don\u0027t have this thing where it tells which one is serving as a backup and neither do we advertise that in a GPS today so just okay I\u0027m sorry interrupt your time the second problem that we saw is again in the same scenario we can assume multiple ebgp sessions multiple lengths between the two routers in this when we are doing ebgp multi-hop for you to be able to really say that how do we make this work from our centralized consumer right the local remote be to be peering addresses are not sufficient to identify today as such the drafts and the RFC that I mentioned before do not "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:18:44",
    "text": "clearly convey how I originally wanted how peering is possible so what we are proposing is this peer that said it must be advertised for interests links and it should contain the T attributes addresses can you guys hear okay by the way so let me repeat so what we\u0027re proposing is pay Raj said must be advertised for the interest links and it should contain the T attributes local and remote interface addresses and peer note said should contain the local IP address now the reason why this is needed is because when the link fails becomes you more can then correlate which of the links are connected to the session because it is a multi hop session which of this is correctly session and therefore take appropriate action now in all this we are definitely carry adding unnumbered interfaces because this is typically not used for inter ASO except that this should work for multi-hop ebgp sessions for intro yes in l questions Kate ontological Cisco so we discussed this offline and I agree that this is addressing a gap which has been there that is ability to correlate links with the para distance is said with the link for the visible PR nodes it which is actually the BGP so yes for the peering session no more questions any others I was trying to read really quick the spring draft on epe you pretending this is spring so one reason investing is because if I remember correctly the main case that it talked about was the case where the other draft is addressing right the one we all the advertising currently those those external links not this one now that\u0027s not a problem but it may be that the spring working group wants to describe this as well that draft already passed say a GE relation all stuff but it\u0027s sitting waiting for something else that hasn\u0027t gone to the ASU yet so if we\u0027re at a couple paragraphs it shouldn\u0027t be a big deal so it may be a good idea to maybe you are presenting your sending email to the spring working group just you know mentioning that you\u0027re addressing this use case show that wasn\u0027t covered by the other busy pls draft and I it may not be described in the in in the spring not sure oh cool thank you thank you "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:21:57",
    "text": "this should be a simple draft can you guys hear me can you guys hear me all right before okay so we have presented this document before idea of hundred and presented the first version of it presented the IDF 101 the version 3 with this one we are presenting some major updates to the document after the lot of discussion internally and implementation we are aligning this with the IG piece which is actually makes the implementation simpler also we are I think the implementation is matured enough and also the relevant documents are mature enough for example the SR v6 architecture which is the network programming document is in the working group adoption call and also the SRV 6ep extensions is also matured as a v6 also the technology has matured over time we have seen the deployment of SR v6 so this document is complementary to the things which are going on with the service 6 and it helped with the overall deployment for s services all right at a high level the we have noted tributes and we have link attributes with node attributes we\u0027re creating a new TLB to determine the capability of the node whether the node actually understands the service X or not and also an OEM quick capability I\u0027ll talk about it the MST in type which you guys have seen before for SR MPLS similar type has been introduced for we leveraging the same one which is already there but we are route izing with the services the algorithm support so what kind of algorithm is being used with link attributes again the same and X and the IGP attributes and the land and X the details are in the document and also a new MST type which is right now is is the same using the same MST MST TLD with prefix attribute we are doing the SR v6 locator it\u0027s a new TLV so I\u0027ll talk about that there has been Commons on the mailer about the size of the LS attribute and how it\u0027s doing it so to help with that we actually introducing a new NL another I type for SR v6 said this will be used to basically learn the capabilities of all the sets which are there on that particular node or even the the basically the my set table on that particular device the it also enables the granola bgp updates so we can split the updates into multiple bgp updates to reduce the churn for the "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:24:57",
    "text": "nodal and larai which is defined in 7750 - also these set attributes we are defining the endpoint function TLB and the epe node TLB which is already defined earlier also so yes our v6 capability as it says indicates the node is actually a service xscape able or not it\u0027s creating a obut which tells whether it\u0027s capable for OEM we\u0027re also leveraging the new MST types which are already which are defined over here which is basically the ones and the node points are not assigned yet and the algorithm TLV which is basically defined in seven 752 we are using it for both MPLS and for our services with a contribute we are creating n dot X city LV this should not come as a surprise to anybody it\u0027s pretty much standard of what we have used before similar what we have used before the LAN and X TLB is also which is the same concept which we used with MPLS and this is MST type which is same as what I described earlier the prefix attribute TLV this is basically defining the locator and also the function the metrics and the associated algorithm for it example you could have a flex algo associated which is associated algorithm with that and some of the flags which is basically the down bed and any cost then lri which I was describing just to reduce the size of the Noda Lara we\u0027re describing a new SR we succeed and Lara to carry the survey succeed information from that node and corresponding descriptors are being defined which will carry the information TLV so there could be multiple sub dlv is carrying all the seeds of that node and learning the capabilities which that node is capable of and thus its associated with that so and then there is a already a multi topology identifier which is defined as 77052 very using that all rights it attributes so we are defining the function and the algorithm for a service it said it\u0027s the same concept for the function that algorithm which has been described before so it\u0027s pretty straightforward and the peer note said which is for the eb we had defining the peer said and also the peer set said same concept for the EP document which is going through the working group right now all right with that as i said it\u0027s pretty similar to the concepts which we have used before for sr we are just extending the same things for a service 6 and over all the adoption of SR v6 is the technology has improved quite a bit we even as linden and in some of the hyper scales we\u0027re seeing the use cases for keeping it simple I think the technology itself has seen that option some of the vendors have seen the implementation and even some of the customers have deployed it so I think "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:27:57",
    "text": "it\u0027s with this SR v6 be TLS extensions it is only going to help to improve the overall adoption for their service ecology with that I\u0027m requesting the inputs if there is any more and also requesting the working group adoption so as part of the working group adoption one of the things i was i mentioned to you i\u0027d ask is what were the improvements you found from the original specification maybe a year ago year a half ago to the deployments what did you learn in your deployments and in your initial implementations so one of the main things which we have learned is to basically sync it with a GP to keep the implementation simpler and so that we can reuse some of the code and the implementation which we have done and that\u0027s one other part of the reason which we have done here also to address the comments about the size of the PGP LS attribute is growing quickly and you really then do olara which will help and then how does in just for the rest of the audience what helps with creating the new and alright well that\u0027s our v6 you\u0027re actually gonna be carrying a lot more information so with no delay which is already being used I think by creating a separate olara it helps with the reducing the size of the noddle an ayah which was happy okay and I think that\u0027s important oh well did you have some questions yeah are we speaking as individual so I didn\u0027t read the draft but I noticed in there that you said that you\u0027re defending MSD type in this draft no we don\u0027t define you musty it\u0027s the MSD type which is already well actually there is a let me go back to that slide maybe if you answer correctly just it\u0027s basically the same concept which is there for the MST we are using it\u0027s for the functions which we need for segment auditing v6 to work no no my question is you said that the values are not assigned are you define the registry and everything else here or is that coming from the AGP drafts okay that\u0027s already created for a sample as draft so assume at some point your request yes yeah I\u0027m from Hawaii you said that this design over the IGP I sighs sorry six yeah I see that if you have the locator as a top job then you have the the sub javis right now here you have the locator in the prefix in the right they differ a new now I Father sees why you make this kind of change for BGP I\u0027ve an expert behind you you\u0027ll answer that so the I GPS a-gps we have very limited "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:31:01",
    "text": "amount of said that\u0027s advertised which is basically the end said and there can be a few of them whereas in BGP LS we could have many moods and it again goes back to the if all of these seeds service exceeds were advertised as a node attribute in the same way then we would really grow the BLS message size so this enables more granularity and as we see further we will have other types of service exceeds which are not being propagated within the IJ piece but may be introduced in BGP LS so you know that\u0027s where this granular signaling approach has been this Mac reason may you have individual obtain a stage for each I survey succeed is that correct not individual you can pack multiple sets into the same sit down only if they have the same attributes right if they are the same attributes yeah matching with updates message right right I don\u0027t think that a concern okay so with that I request here for the working group adoption call for this document thank you thank you that I\u0027m teasing him because I\u0027ve been bugging him to ask for working group adoption for a while it\u0027s the first time I\u0027ve had polar working group adoption from someone so just to introduce Kate owns talk briefly this is slightly unusual in that the draft was I think finally uploaded like six hours ago so normally we try to avoid having talks that you know you haven\u0027t had a chance to read the draft this seemed it like it was interesting enough to the group and we have a second session later this week which we will have some some time available for follow-up discussion during that session so you know if you hear the talk today to give you an overview hopefully that will give you enough Mateus to make you interested to go back and we\u0027ll the draft and then we can have a follow-up discussion on Thursday with people who have read the draft so and I\u0027d like to think you know everybody involved for being flexible about scheduling and so on thanks John yeah so so so the question we start with is why why do we "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:34:02",
    "text": "need this update so there are a few aspects that we try to go over there have been lot of questions and discussions on the mailing list about you know bt pls carrying the information in BGP and the kind of checking handling error handling semantic checking and all of that that\u0027s needed to be done so to set the context one of the first things in the update is introduction of some terminologies which we hope will help describe the role of the digital implementation and what needs to be done you know as BLS is information is propagated in that context there are updates to the error handling and fault management aspects so this is also a topic which has been discussed on the mailing list with lot of inputs and clarifications on those so this is to document back and review it then there is one aspect of digitalis I think which has probably not been discussed on the mailing list but amongst some certain some implementers that you had discussions there has been this I would say somewhat confusion or lack of clarity or ambiguity about idn\u0027t of the news of instanceid you bTW pls and how the IGP domains are actually not in busy pls so we\u0027ll talk about that in in a bit few other things key things is this bTW pls attribute and as we keep adding more and more TL B\u0027s and extensions there is a concern that we would hit the 4k digital update limit so we talked a bit about that at this point they don\u0027t really practically see us there but potentially this is definitely possible so it\u0027s better to address it upfront and then there are some other minor editorial changes and introduction of some private views to alvey\u0027s so to start off and set the context updated by the diagram in the draft a little bit and introducing these roles so the first one is the BG pls producer now this is a node as a BGP speaker which originates or introduces information into bicha pls I mean it could be coming from the IG piece it could be the nodes local properties all of that so it\u0027s really originating information then we have a BGP LS consumer is shown by the consumer "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:37:04",
    "text": "block now this is actually an application or a process or a controller or any of those things that is actually using the BGP LS information as information signal wire to do some functionality the functionality would be application-specific in that now technically this is would like to kind of separate it so it\u0027s not really the BGP speaker of the BGP implementation there is a kind of fine line that we probably need to draw there because this consumer application is born the scope of digitalis so that\u0027s one of the key aspects and then we have what we\u0027re calling of the BGP LS propagator so this is really a BGP implementation that is handling the BGP update messages with new state information in it you were performing best path calculation and you know it\u0027s it\u0027s really just exchanging or transporting the BGP or less information kind of optically in this picture when we have this deployment with route reflectors or you know information going across multiple s we can would have really something like a BGP route reflector this rrn which is really simply propagating the information right but but the propagator piece and these rules are not really neutrally exclusive so the same BGP implementation can actually be originating information into BGP LS it could be propagating certain other information and maybe also handling us you know some of this to a consumer application right so the definition of this rules are being defined just to help clarify where needed in the rest of the document next we come to the link state NL arise and RFC 77 52 has defined three types but we have more being introduced by other drafts some of them are working with documents some of them are waiting for adoption but what needs clarification is that implementations must handle unknown NRI types in opaque manner so they should be able to process and propagate these and this is what we would would enable us to introduce new extension without requiring upgrade of the BJP infrastructure an example is our out reflector the capability negotiation is done at you know at the official level but not for individual and NRI types but "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:40:06",
    "text": "this is something which we thought would help getting clarified in the spec so that implementations handle this now within the NLRs we have a bunch of tlvs that can be used they are called descriptors so node descriptor prefix name distributors and other types so the proposal the already detects in RFC 7750 to indicate that we need to handle it unknown unsupported tlvs in there but what we\u0027re adding is that they don\u0027t require BGP because a BGP implementation proposed semantic validation on you know what\u0027s really in the TLB values and fields so obviously we need to do the syntactic validation so that lengths and all of these informations are proper so we can parse and process the BGP messages but not really going to the semantics and this is because as more and more again LVS and information gets added we don\u0027t want to bring in a lot of these new complexities or things into the base budget implementation like you know just think about from a BGP LS propagator point of view the only rule which is there and it comes in the existing RFC 77 52 is that the tobey\u0027s types in the NLRA are organized in ascending order and this is required so that we do not have multiple instances of the same information being appearing as different NLR eyes in the BGP tables just because you know somebody is arranging it in any order so it is just mainly to help that and if not then trying to clarify that it could be considered as a mile from NLRA in that case now the syntactic checking is done by the BGP BGP implementation but the semantic checks are proposed to be done only by the actual consumer application so that would be outside the scope as a BGP LS next we talked about the BG polis attributes and even within this the tlvs are proposed to be handled opaquely I mean this is already existing thing which is there we\u0027re just trying to clarify this in document here there is no need for ordering by TLB type any of those limitations are there and any unknown unsupported even unexpected the enemies know should be handled opaquely "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:43:07",
    "text": "now as more and more information is added in we\u0027re in Belarus it\u0027s possible at some point they will have so much in the BG pls attribute but we could not fit it in a single BGP BGP update message for a single NRI yeah could we take just take it at the end of the slide is it a clarifying for this yeah I just want to put in Arcis I just wanted to let you know that if you drop it and consider it as an attribute discard in this case it\u0027s quite possible that the consumer may not have a clear picture of the network topology and you may want to signal that I will come to that so thank you for the clarification so so I didn\u0027t put that on the slides but it\u0027s there in the draft so there are few ways to go about it one is BGP extended messages but you know it\u0027ll probably take time to really get it deployed and you know rolled out one other option is that you know a producer can have our implementation can provide a limit at a producer where the number of tlvs or what\u0027s put in there is limited and then you know again it\u0027s applications dependent on what tlvs are important or not in palm important but we let the producer decide on that right now it\u0027s possible that we have done that but still the update message grows as it\u0027s propagated let\u0027s say I mean s path is added or some other thing so here we are talking about attribute discard but we\u0027ll come to it in the salt management to answer Q\u0027s question the proposal is when we discard the attribute we still propagate the actual link state and lri all the way to the consumer so when a consumer sees a link state and an arrived without any attribute in it that\u0027s kind of like say a hint that you know this information is not to be drawn it\u0027s still that because the other bgp attributes are still there and then that may be used to kind of debug or troubleshoot at you know what point in the BGP propagation was this discarded I don\u0027t know if that answers the question so the question that begs is do you get into a loop where the consumer doesn\u0027t know what the topology is so you have problems and you\u0027re not getting the right air feedback so the error continues you don\u0027t have to answer now you write this seems like great fodder for either mailing list conversation or follow up on Thursday okay yeah we can "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:46:09",
    "text": "so here the semantic checks are again for the consumer not within the BJP LS scope next is instance identification in gujja pls so we have multi domain IJ P topologies which are listed objects from where are advertised out by a bitch pls so a consumer sitting on path can really have a clear multi-domain tautology view of of the network now in order to do so we need to we have something like we have 64 bit identifier in the NL RI and this is called a bt pls instance identifier so this can be you know is applicable both for multiple IGP domain so let\u0027s say multiple routing processes on the same node but also can be used for multi instance where we have multiple instances of the same ip running on a single link so this identifier is configured at a GP instance level on the producer such the load which is originating the information and when we have multiple bt pls producers advertising pathology information from the same ip domain we need to ensure that the same identifier value is configured on the other producers in that AGP domain plus when there are multiple domains we need to give a unique identifier to the other domains so these things who are what would help really somebody who is looking at this beta P LS information like a consumer to really construct or identify or correlate the listed information coming to it to the actual IP domains in the network and we have another tier 1 Phi 1 3 which is called a bt pls identifier and there has been you know some confusion whether this is the this is the instance identifier that we talked about or whether it is a 64-bit identifier which is doing that function and I would really look for feedback from implementers on what they have done I mean based on offline discussions this is what would like to propose but you know we need to really discuss and see how to handle this plus the backward compatible aspects if there are based on the implementations out there next is the site management again as overview so BGP LS provides transport for link state in opaque manner and this "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:49:09",
    "text": "is what we kind of want to do and precise here so syntactic checking only is what we expect digital to do not really semantic checking at all and it\u0027s the consumer of the BGP LS information which would do the semantic checking an interpretation of steel wastes fields and all that now it\u0027s possible that there are errors in the tlvs but handling of those errors would be done actually by the consumer and the what kind of handling is done by the consumer is very much application-specific it\u0027s not something that we can generalize or hope to cover for you know all applications that are there today or maybe you know develop in the future so we keep that outside the scope of DGP LS so specific to link state and an arise now then the error in the mean state and lri or the TLB is in there is such that we cannot really parse or process the message then we have really not much option but to do something like a session reset right are in case where it\u0027s possible and supported when we have we don\u0027t have such an isolation we can do I think disabled so these are just you know recommendations things would also depend on by on the implementation aspect right now when the error is affecting a specific NLRA or let\u0027s say all the link state and an arise in that in that update message then but we can really identify we don\u0027t have a problem in parsing or processing the message then we can treat it as traitors we draw right or ignore this thing similarly for the BGP LS attribute it\u0027s it\u0027s somewhat similar on on when we need to do something like a session reset or as we disable and when the error is within the BGP LS attribute itself so some TLP within it has doesn\u0027t have the correct length or so but the BGP LS attribute length for example is is fine I mean so it can be read then we would it\u0027s the really the attribute discard which is there in the existing RFC 7750 - that\u0027s a recommended but here well looking for the actual NLRA listed and I rely to continue to propagate without the BGP LS attribute so that the consumer does not misinterpret this as that link state "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:52:10",
    "text": "object let\u0027s say a node is going out of the network so it still sees that object in the network but it doesn\u0027t have information about it and the the idea there is that it probably enables some sort of a diagnostic to go and look back and you know figure out where this problem happened one other clarification I mean it might be obvious but we need to clarify is that when we say be GPL is attribute to discarded it\u0027s not for individual TVs the entire attribute is getting discarded I mean there might be some kind of ambiguity in there sometimes so on the fault management and you know error handling obviously appreciate feedback discussions offline or on the mailing list next so this is about it\u0027s not something which has been discussed on the mailing list but based on implementation and deployment feedback I want to run through this example and it\u0027s about handling of unreachable IP nodes in a network so let\u0027s take this picture here and say it\u0027s running OSPF as IGP and the we have this link between r2 and r3 in area zero and all the other links are in area one and we have R 2 and R 3 as the bgp LS producers who are advertising the information so they would do it for both area 0 in area 1 to be GP r r r0 which is then passing it on let\u0027s say to a consumer so consider the scenario where the link between R Phi and r6 goes down now this is a link state I GP but what happens is that on let\u0027s take look at r2 on the on our toe in the link state LS d b FR - it still continues to hold the the router LSA of r6 now in this router unless a of r6 the link from r6 to RF is still present in that router LS a because here if you see when the link is broken the area 1 is getting partitioned into two thoughts right so R 2 still has the router LSA of our six which is kind of stale but that continue contains the link from our six to our five whereas since alpha is still connected to r2 r2 receives the updated router Lisa from r5 which does not have the link from r5 r6 anymore "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:55:11",
    "text": "okay so and the converse happens in the case of r3 now if our 202 just advertise everything that was in LSD B and on on its IGP node then what would happen is that r2 will advertise the half link and a link and an arai from r6 to our five which is it gets from the stained router a lesser of r6 and r3 does the reverse now when these updates go on to the BGP route reflector r0 these are actually two different and LR eyes and you know they would just go through to the consumer there is no nothing in the BGP update processing which will you know select or one over the other so when it goes to a consumer consumer actually sees a complete link because it has two half links it sees that alpha and r6 are connected to each other so it does not really get a true picture of the underlying network topology a different aspect of it is even let\u0027s say the r3 is based on the BGP best path processing r3 is the preferred node so what happens is for all the nodes are one r5 r6 and r4 there is these state objects are being advertised by both r2 and r3 and let\u0027s say that in the same broken link case r3 is really the preferred source by r0 maybe the next stop is you know that\u0027s it\u0027s a better next stop so what happens is r3 will is giving stale information about our Phi and r1 in this broken link scenario or this partition scenario but our zero because it\u0027s just running BGP beste doesn\u0027t have the knowledge of you know what\u0027s more but still so it would actually end up sending the stale information about let\u0027s say R 1 and R 5 to the consumer so the solution for this is that much like what how it\u0027s done in the IG piece but the node B G Palace producer which is distributing information into BGP the drawers information pertaining to notes which are unreachable to it in the IGP so IG please do not use information or NSA\u0027s or a recipes from nodes which are unreachable we\u0027re asking that the same be done when they\u0027re originating information into bujji pls now this aspect has not been discussed or you know covered so far at least not to my knowledge but welcome feedbacks inputs on this one the goal here is not to "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:58:11",
    "text": "change the bgp processing but still give the consumer actual true topology picture there are some other changes no details are in the draft so there was some ambiguity about mt i dt l me and it\u0027s clarified that it has it should or must be used when there is empty in the underlying topology some things little to OSP of route type needs to be mandatory TL v for the prefix analyze because we can have multiple route types some new things which have come up like OSPF support for node name this is been added there is some clarification on session isolation for BG pls that\u0027s there in the operational section operational consideration section and [Music] there is also introduction of this private use and olara in TL v space for doing vendors extensions without conflicts we have a perk attributes today in the drafts but [Music] the use and things are not really well clarified I would say so it\u0027s possible that there are implementation challenges on that there are other changes as well and when we\u0027ve shared the update on the mailing list it also includes a diff from RFC 7750 - so you can check all the changes in their capital arcus can you go back to the last slide yeah my suggestion my suggestion is to move some of these things into a different draft as a not include as part of the base because for the folks who have implementations we would like to simply fix what is covered in the base and still be conformed to the RFC as opposed to adding the new set of information that\u0027s been proposed and the line is Carthage Angus and we have more time on Thursday after you had a chance to look at the draft change the rotten or "
  },
  {
    "startTime": "02:01:12",
    "text": "luciana actually we did have an implementation of BGP others and we find two specification bugs in OSPF one is very basic basically for this year the nose to musk is missing and the other one is very complicated just a little bit the sameiras coming into an area and then they have the router IDs and route who you\u0027re supposed to ever I think next hub field or something of that sort that\u0027s also missing get to the details on that sure I think my dough to specification mostly shoes so anything but inputs on capture cover so yeah yep so right so now you can catch Catan you know between now and Thursday I volunteered and yeah we\u0027ll continue on Thursday thank you everybody I checked and on Thursday we do not have a crazy room with a giant column in the middle of it so there\u0027s that so Thursday oh and if anybody hasn\u0027t blue shaded to please blue sheet because that\u0027s the reason we get these tiny rooms "
  }
]