[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:12",
    "text": "while we're waiting for people to join and going to experiment we share screen yeah no it's not going to work uh is there something you'd like me to try Robert there is a section we're going to get to where there's this link to the miror board and I was wondering if we could get the mirror board on the screen easily I could probably fight through it with my own setup but it would require changing system level permissions for browsers in the future I might approach such things by just making a snapshot and creating a slide for the minutes but"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:03",
    "text": "all right we're still waiting for people to join give it a couple of more minutes I'll remind everyone that um we'd like people to share audio and video but do remember that the session is being recorded and will appear on YouTube later I'd ask that um several of you keep an eye on the chat um I have enough windows open that I don't always see when something appears in the chat that might need attention feel free to interrupt if there's something that occurs there that needs to be brought to the call at the time or during the any other business part of the call all right right the rate of joining has slowed we'll go ahead and start welcome everyone thanks again for taking time out of your day to participate in these calls um as I mentioned a little earlier we encourage everyone to share audio and video and we don't run a queue um this is an open Forum if you have something that you want to discussed just please jump in the session is being recorded it will"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:00",
    "text": "appear on YouTube later keep that in mind as you are um commenting the agenda is what's captured in the notes um at notes. f.org for the page if anyone doesn't have a link to that page um looks like there's been a link dropped into the chat already does anyone have any agenda bashes before we start in all right moving first into Hot Topics the big hot topic for lots of us from last week are the mailman 3 transition and the mail delivery issues that um occurred in its wake I have uh quite a bit of text I'm going to leave it for people to read the high order bets in this text are that the mailman 3 transition itself went actually very smoothly for the mailman part um there were a few issues particularly related to the glue between postfix and postc confirm that interacted with things in mailman that exhibited in Loops for messages sent to list owners those are still being cleaned out we believe they were cleaned out but there was some indication from um Sirius earlier today that there are some situations where some of these Loops can still occur and that there will be um the associated um consequence of of some un Necessary Things ending up in the moderation queue but from male man's perspective migration worked very well that said"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "there was a number of issues in the interface between post confirm and mailman that exhibited several ways the most notable noticeable and problematic of which were that mail sent to the lists was accepted it appeared from the sender perspective that everything was fine but the messages were not sent to the list through a quirk in mailman those messages have been saved they might be recoverable some of the more obvious ones to find have been recovered I'll get in a moment to one detail that I'll bring up about the difficulties in that recovery but the high order bit again um just pulling back up to the high order level we believe that since about 1900 on Thursday um you see that any mail sent to the lists is actually being sent to the lists and making it to the archive the way it is supposed to if anybody has any evidence that that's not the case um please bring it up very very early but so far from what we've been watching it looks like delivery is doing what it is supposed to do I was able to identify and resubmit the messages from the data tracker in particular the announce tool at the data tracker from the RFC editors announce tool um just because they have some very special um characteristics that made them easy to find and and become confident that they were legitimate and should move through to the list their remaining messages are are difficult um if you look in the more"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:01",
    "text": "detailed section at the third paragraph in particular um there are some small number of hundreds like three to 400 of these messages we think that are lying out there in a directory that's got 46 47,000 things in it and of those 47,000 things most of them should not be delivered anywhere certainly not to lists um and is a big coding effort to at this point to go through and figure out which one of those things are legitimate and should be sent through so our recommendation at this time is that if you had something important and it didn't make it to the list resend it we're going to continue to work on um backfilling and sending the messages that are captured in postc confirms cach but it is going to take time and in the interest of um making sure that the ITF work continues in a timely matter people should just resend so if you read further into the details I'll call attention in particular in sirius's report to the um second to the last paragraph the as we went into this period after the migration initially male was delivering tests through mailman 3 looked fine male was flowing into the archive in an appropriate rate some problems with details were found and adjustments were made to how things were delivering that had side effects and as more changes were made"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "dealing with those side effects we ended up with further degraded service at one point it was improved back to the point where the number of messages not making it were more minuscule and then on Thursday we hit this three-hour period where no messages to the lists were're going through at all um the Breakthrough moment at the end of that three hours we believe addressed all of the delivery issues and as I said before mail is going through as we expect at this point um you can see in that paragraph the the nitty-gritty detail was that there's a new interface um between post confirm and mailman 3 that did not exist it made very differently in the interface between postc confirm and mailman 2 where postc confirm and postfix in this case were having um disagreements about what was allowed at as line endings inside of a message um for those not having to deal with postc confirm before it is um a fairly complex piece of code and one of the unfortunate things that it did when messages were failing to be delivered through these points is if anything complained it was swallowing the complaint so nothing was coming out into logs it took a bit to figure out um where things were actually dying we do have on the list of future improvements the rewrite of postc confirm separating its challenging part from its rewriting Parts as we move this functionality into the new maal processing system and and it will be a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "goal there to increase observability into the system so that should we ever encounter an issue like this again there are many more tools at hand to diagnose what's happening in a more timely matter all right with my describing those things hopefully there's been enough time for anyone who had not read this section of text before we got to the call to have skimmed through it now I'll stop and ask if anyone has any questions um about this so far Mark do you have anything that you'd like to add um I think you handled it extremely well um you made all the points that uh I was intending to make so I'm not sure there's anything I can add apart from um possibly the question in some ways would would be uh did we not test before the migration actually the first thing I want say is that everything as Robert has said completely that that's exactly how it it played out and played out with us we were working around the clock on this we were working together um it was a lot of challenges for us um I think the only thing I can add uh would be um to the question of did we not test the Migra ation before going ahead yes we did many times but we didn't anticipate the challenges that that we found in the end as can happen with these things um and I would say this isn't the final system that that we're delivering it's a halfway point if you like and in place migration um and the truth is could we have devised more test to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "anticipate some of the areas with post confirm and the line endings issue that we came across which was really naughty and big thanks to John Levine and several other people in the ITF who who helped us figure out and get to that a hard moment um we could have but it we were already all of us ITF uh the serious Team all of us feeling the pressure to get this into production and we took the you we could be criticized for that of course and huge apologies to everyone who did get hit by this problem but we took the view that it would have added so much more time to getting us into production with this interim system that it was the right risk reward decision for it um that's it really and again I'm here with Robert to answer any detailed questions you have on this all right I'm not hearing anybody jump in with any questions um I'll ask one in a minute um of the so if you don't mind Robert and Mark I made on my own a mailman 2 to mailman 3 on a much much much smaller uh email server of course uh but as a personal person I was quite disappointed by the failure on this again not speaking an isg member right as aniv contributor and that's it right as long it's fixed it's fixed y Warren just jump in we don't need to run a que okay I mean sort of responding to that but I think we've been trying to move from"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:00",
    "text": "mailman 2 to mailman 3 for a very very very long time and at some point I think we had basically just sort of jump in could it have gone absolutely perfect maybe but you know I think that this went much better than I was expecting um taking into consideration like how much weird hackery and stuff we' done to Mayan to so you know didn't go perfect but I think it went better than I was expecting and certainly better than has happened in in the past when I tried to do any male man migration stuff so woo thank you thank you laen very much appreciated and Eric I do understand your your point the disappointment your right to be we were disappointed with ourselves we wanted to I get it absolutely perfect um I would say it was probably the most challenging migration we have ever done very big a lot of moving parts and lots of challenges with that um I don't mean that to be an excuse I mean it to be an observation um but understand your disappointment and more very much appreciate your comments on it as well that there could have been many more things that went wrong um uh and we're going to take what we got on that and apologies to anyone for any challenges it did cause but yeah there could have been a lot more go wrong to be honest thank you Mark so the next observation that I have about this incident overall is that we had taken the Approach at the beginning that the people that needed to be kept in the loop most intensely were the people that were going to have to moderate or um make administrative changes to lists and while we had made some announcements onf announced to everyone"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "that things were coming when we got closer to actually pulling the trigger on this as because as you remember we scheduled the transition and then deferred it several times as we were finding problems moving along um we hadn't told the broader community that yes today was the day um last that Monday a week ago and then as we ran into trouble with the mail delivery and it became apparent that messages weren't coming to the lists we kind of ended up in a frog boiled like situation where you know we were continually thinking oh this will be fixed in just a moment and it wasn't um and we continued to focus our messaging on the owners and moderators and um missed the opportunity to reach out to the larger Community to let them know that there were more um that there were problems that that they should un understand that messages that they had sent may not have been delivered and I will take responsibility um for that myself um both Jay and Greg realized along the way that there were opportunities that we could take Greg jumped in put up a an explanatory blog post Jay noticed that we hadn't been sending things to ITF announce and addressed that um I noticed this weekend that we had not sent anything to iatf at i.org and some questions that started to appear there um I think it just at a very high order bit that um the next round of things that we do that have a potential for disruption and particularly if we get into a disruptive a disrupted period we need to um be more aggressive about overc communicating and we will do so"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:06",
    "text": "so all right unless somebody has more questions about the mailman transition I'm going to move forward so Robert I have one knit and I'm not sure if it's the same thing that Bob hinden raised but when something is uh moderated put into the held message Q um you can't jump from anything in the message straight to that queue to deal with it we used to have a link in that said go here to deal with it now you have to go to the uh to the page that has the well mailman 3.it f.org and then go find your list anyway it's just a lot bigger pain than it used to it is we've heard this from dozens of people at this okay consequence of some decisions that the mailman 3 maintainers made as they were separating the functionality into different places the link to what to do was something that would be completely unknown to the system that was sending the link I see we have put in a feature request for our instance for them to put these links back and it's in the queue to be worked on okay all right thank you that that I didn't see that in the right that you asked for that no no okay fair enough it will be going into ma man good because I I can't imagine we're the only ones frustrated by it I'm sure that's correct too we we've had core team on this project it will be going back into mailman thank you all right a quick report on our tools team Retreat week before last um the core developers got together um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:02",
    "text": "with uh Roman um GRE and Jay Jean was there at um to go through our strategy for the upcoming year the um we have we made several big decisions um the the largest of which was that we reassessed whether or not our move towards Amazon was the correct one and decided that it wasn't um we were losing too much time to the complexity that was um required to do things in Amazon the AWS is designed for solving problems at a scale for people that are running um Global um retail establishments um the problems that we need to solve are much simpler and are easier to address um in different Fabrics uh so we've already started adjusting and have seen um some much some very promising and rapid results moving our uh initial instances of the data tracker for example into digital ocean and to Azure um we are to the point where I will talk a little bit later in the infrastructure planning um about when we're going to move those things um jumping back to the tools Retreat we did update the tools road map there is a link in the uh in the agenda there the cards several people have noted on the road map could have more detail added to them I had intended to be adding detail last week my time last week went into supporting the mailman 3 transition instead um I hope shortly to be adding more detail"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:03",
    "text": "to the cards on the road mapap so when you're looking at for example what does the uh uh card that says unified access to artifacts actually mean it will be a little more self-documenting so one of the larger decisions that went into um building that road map was we needed to take the step to separate our identity Provider from the data tracker so that we could take advantage of work that other parties have done um the oid super provider package um that's written in Jango that we were using is not particularly featur Rich one feature in particular that it doesn't support that we've gotten lots of requests for two Factor authentication for the data track so we are soon going to be taking the step of separating the provider out to one based on a source package called keycloak um the uh keycloak will allow some different modes of authentication the authorization that happens based on that authentication will look the same so and the last thing that I wanted to call out from The Retreat there were a lot more details but for the purposes of this call the one thing I wanted to call out was we noticed that there has been drift over the last year in particular about how we use the phrase tools team sometimes it is the people who are on this call sometimes it is the staff that is hired by the LLC to work on the tooling um I don't think that there is a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:03",
    "text": "significant amount of community confusion but the disconnect is becoming more jarring and we're looking for a way to to resolve that and speak more clearly about what we mean in each case any ideas um around that are very welcome um I I would prefer to the team be the one that includes the community because that's a term we use elsewhere all right I'm not so sure that I've shared the your view rest there I mean I I don't mind either way right as long as we go two different words uh well like gen artart is an example gen art art art there's a bunch of places where team is part of a community thing then that's fine all right I'll move forward and start talking about what we're planning to do in the short term for infrastructure transition we are overdue on making our transition um we're moving at best speeds we're in the final weeks we are to the point where it's time to schedule cutting over the big applications the data tracker maal archive the main www site and the iMat Services those are all going to have to go in close coordination we're going be trying to work out the date that we would do that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:01",
    "text": "on um over the next few days we have some details that we need to nail down the first to make sure that we are ready um some of them involve mail transport how is mail going to get to the data tracker when the data tracker is not on the same host with the mail server um we've got a plan but that plan needs to be turned into proven code before we SCH schedule a cut over date um we're working those details out we're working out the last of the other external interfaces that we have in particular we have some places where we interact with an API at a we're in contact with um the the staff at a to make sure that that's going to go smoothly um once we have these details nailed down we'll be communicating widely to the community and outage to move these things that outage will be a significant one I would expect that it would be um measured in hours not in minutes um but it shouldn't be um more than you know three or four hours at our my my initial thinking we'll be running some final migration tests before we get there to fine-tune that estimate if we're really lucky it'll turn into seconds instead of hours but I'm not going to count on it at this time the other big transition that we have is moving our core maale processing pipeline from where it currently is on itfa into um a cloud service and this is the next big task for Serius um when the dust settles on the mailman 3 um they'll be focusing on that"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:02",
    "text": "uplift so we'll have more details about that and we will Telegraph the the timing for that transition um quite widely once it's known we've been ready for some time to move rscpa this is the production Center the server for the RFC production Center and the origin server for RFC editor. f.org into the cloud um we deferred it for the time that we were out for the retreat in the mailman 3 transition our current plan is to move that into the cloud tomorrow morning there are some details about the U uh progress we've made since the last meeting the services that we've moved um there was a lot of work that has gone into things that look simple that turn out to be really difficult there were um some websites that were just flat files that we are moving to be served out of buckets at um Cloud flare or a combination of um Cloud flare and some other services there are sections of what had been served under www.f.org insert deep directory path here to effectively static files where these static files are also being moved up to be served from a bucket server there were a huge Apache configuration files for some sites that were doing nothing but redirects with twisty passages and redirect logic that we worked our way through and simplified"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "down to the point where we have these redirects configured as either bulk redirects redirect rules at Cloud Player they are still complex there are still places where we have redirects to redirects that we haven't worked out but we do have them where they are not where the requests to get the redirect don't have to go all the way to An Origin server they're being handled at the edge so um and we've put a lot of effort in this last month into building out our monitoring and alerting infrastructure and it's looking um very exciting at this point we're have a lot more visibility into things than we have had in the past there is a link at the end of this section to a diagram about our um current and future INF infrastructure State I encourage people to um look around um see if they find this diagram informative we will refine this diagram as as as we move along the attempt um that we've made is to show where Services had been running and where they are running now um if we had drawn this before the retreat most of the um Services running in AWS would have been under new infrastructure but to Echo the um what I mentioned before we've decided that this isn't working out well for us as soon as we have moved the rest of the things off of ieta and the few other um things that are still on ams's infrastructure we will end up moving um the services that are listed there as running in the main eks kubernetes cluster in to um digital oce or"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "aure um and we will see at that point how much um of the email processing system which we are still currently planning on deploying in in Amazon but are are discussing with serious whether or not that's still the right thing to do will remain um going into Amazon does anybody have any questions about where we're going with infrastructure transitions at this point yeah this this is John I think I would like to have a little chat about where the mail is going I I think leaving it AWS it's the right thing to do but I would like to understand better what what's going to be where um I'm guessing at the what's going to be where question the intent is that the entire male processing system would be a unit um there would be oops where'd he go I'm sure he'll be back you scar him off sorry perfectly reasonable question um we're actually big fans of digital ocean as well so we are evaluating that and there is one component of the male system on sces which will certainly remain on Amazon but we are I I don't want to steal any of Robert Su but we are seriously looking at the digital ocean picture as well um we think it's pretty good decision actually so we're evaluating whether other components of the male system can go there um but we do need sces to remain for obvious reasons yeah me yeah cons yeah my digital ocean is a fine fine place to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:01",
    "text": "host your servers but they have they have they have they have a dread a dreadful reputation for sending mail if you try to send mail from there the chances of being delivered are not great so maybe we could maybe we could just wait till Robert gets back so he can hear this as well I'm sure he's try I'm sure he's trying to rejoin um uh um yeah so I think if we have 30 seconds we can let him get back in what's more surprising is that it looks like Gan is supposedly sharing the the same connection and she's okay right have I made it back okay look that way yeah no idea why I happened there from my perspective it looked like I was still connected I could hear what was happening but oh well did you hear John's questions then Robert no okay may you John yeah the the gist of it is that um I would not try to send mail from digital ocean they have a terrible reputation and Azure is depending which problem is Microsoft has like four different male systems that that that don't talk to each other and some of them are okay and some some of some of them are Dreadful whereas SEO s is reliably pretty good so yeah SC sces is the sending service it's it's the the last Edge out so that can be a different um it can be a different decision made about using that and where we would run our receivers our submission points and the things that are processing mailman and serving the mailman 3 Origin yeah no it makes perfect sense to use"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "SDS for outbound and put the other stuff other places yeah okay all right was were there any other questions that came up that I missed when I was disconnected if anybody has any suggestions about how we can better represent if you've had an opportunity to look at that diagram and have questions about it later or suggestions about what would make it a better Communications toool um just please send them to us I think that gets us to the point in the call where everything else is FYI um one FYI that I want to uh actually cover in real time the LLC has hired an additional developer Matthew Hollow will be starting with us um in a little over a week um early part of next week he's a front-end specialist we've worked with him before and some of the other organ organizations that he's um contracted with doing work for us uh we believe that that's going to be the last addition to our um direct programming staff for quite some time um but um that puts us in a place where there is a a lot of work where we've been reaching out for um front end help that um we'll be taking in house so it one uh not to jump on if there are any questions about that but I did want to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "take a moment to talk about the um handling disruptive participants item um sure please go ahead yeah just uh just building on the idea of overc communicating that theme uh This is Gonna the this um change that'll happen to Meo um actually I don't think it says medo in the notes but just to to note that it's a it's a medo uh feature that's going to be imp imped um so uh this will be um put in place before 120 ITF 120 meeting and we're already thinking and working a lot on making sure that the chairs session chairs will have a chance to test this out and be comfortable with it in updating documentation so that um there are no surprises and people know how to use this feature if it's necessary all right anybody have any questions about the remaining parts of the U Notes any of the things where we've talked about um changes to the applications that we haven't covered in Voice already does anyone have any other business all right hearing none I think we're done thank you again um a quick reminder there is a calendar you can subscribe to for the tools calls the next one is on that calendar I'll be putting the ones after that on the calendar shortly so and we will see you on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:03",
    "text": "tools discuss list online and hope to see many of you when we get to Vancouver talk to you soon"
  }
]
