[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:19",
    "text": "hello everyone this is the second pc working group session so here again for the end of this itf week uh we have a tight agenda again uh the session is recorded as usual so you should be used to that the typical noteworld you should be fully aware of that but remember that keep in mind that there are iptf rules about ipr on associated disclosure so make sure you are following all the process that are pointed out here next please so guidelines so this is another mythical session so keep in mind that even if we're on face-to-face you should be respectful to each other we don't need we shouldn't need to to have the chair interrupting a discussion or our agreement argument between people so make sure that you respect all people contributing to the work we are trying to achieve here next please so the agenda if anyone has something to bash from this second session now is the time okay so we'll move on next please and that's it so keep in mind that we are record recording a session state your name when coming to the queue turn off your mic when you run talking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:00",
    "text": "on the everything will go smooth then we have our first presentation which is related to the issue that has been putting out by drove in the introduction last time john legitimately refused an errata that was submitted by oscar on a pc rfc clearly the problem that is pointed out needs more than an errata to be fixed so here a first try to propose a resolution to the issue that has been pointed out so drive you're the floor now thank you julian so let's start this is a new draft based on uh the issue that julian was just talking about this issue has a bit of history uh the issue basically comes up uh because of our rbnf and a statement in our base 5440 draft which requires strict or object ordering in psep and that keeps creating some issues so the two issues which are highlighted in the erata are here the recent one was between lsp object added for stateful psap and class type object and what should be the order of these two objects in the request message is creating some confusion similar confusion happened back in aspect list this was errata 3672 where also adrian at that time ad rejected uh derata correctly based that this errata is not the right way to handle it in fact a working group had one proposal which was a much bigger proposal which was requiring that maybe we should have a consolidated grammar and in fact fix some of the inconsistencies that have popped up uh in the various extension uh it was presented couple of times but it did not go anywhere"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "and then based on this errata john suggested that maybe we could go back to 5440 and try to fix this and which is this approach that we are discussing today so what is the motivation as i said uh 5440 had a statement uh that statement required that the object ordering should be as per uh the one that is defined in that document now that has caused some complexity we saw the two erratas and every time we see new piece of extension there is this confusion on should i go back and list all the objects should i list objects only listed in 5440 and then what happens when there is like you know two documents which require strict ordering between some objects and then all three of them are to be used together and there is some inconsistency so basically this requires some kind of like a bookkeeping between all the parallel extensions another thing that happens which is kind of unique with psep is sometimes uh like you know we have various different use cases of psep there is like the optical side there is now a multicast side and some of them like the implementations are sort of separate and most of the time they don't interact with each other and things are fine but suppose there is a common implementation that is doing both then only much later on we uh notice these issues so that is also a very like you know issue which is uh based on the reality of p sub where it has so many different disjoint use cases and disjoint implementations as well so this has kind of become a problem that we have ignored for all this file let's see if we can try and fix it now so what is this document saying this document is saying let's just update the statement an implementation must form the piece of message using the object ordering specified in this document so change this must to should uh talk about not just this document but subsequent document and say that like"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:00",
    "text": "you know an implementation should be prepared to receive peace and message when they are uh out of order now this doesn't mean that ordering is completely going away we should still do ordering so while sending uh psap uh like you know should respect the ordering that is there in the rbnf but when it is receiving it could be a little bit more uh flexible and spatially flexible when there is uh no ambiguity sometimes what happens is that the object present in two different places the same object for instance if you take bandwidth object that can be carried outside and also can be carried along with rro and it has two different meanings so of course it should be completely unambiguous when it is passing but when when it doesn't really matter the ordering doesn't matter the the parsing would anyway succeed we should not have a very strict condition that the must of object ordering should be uh like you know should be handled so of course there is some word smithing that we may need to do to handle all the cases that are coming up this is just a zero zero proposal we want to see whether this is the right approach and what does the rest of the working group thinks about this approach so what happens there is still a compatibility issue like if somebody is an older implementation is handling a very strict implementation it can send an error saying that no i i i follow 5440 and i have a strict handling and if you send me a different order i will kind of consider that as an error one interesting point to notice though 5440 had a must it never defined an error condition for this case so there is no error type and error value being generated when this out of order thing happens and in fact many implementations kind of keep this very future proof which is like the normal way of being liberal when receiving and being a little bit strict uh when encoding and sending so most of the implementation do follow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "this and do not send an error even correct but there could be some implementation out there which could so we can never like you know we would have this compatibility issue with legacy uh changes so uh what does the working group think is this the right approach to this problem uh there were past proposals should we go back to those past proposal and if this is the right approach then maybe a to do for me and anybody else who wants to join in this work would be we should do a proper scan of all piece of extensions and see that we don't leave any other text which requires object ordering issues and we can handle it for once for all via this update and i'm done thank you thank you so the chairs would be happy to hear some feedback from people of the working group and especially implementers existing implementation may have concerns about the proposal so i see people in the queue andrew we want to go first hello this is andrew um yeah so my natural concern obviously is what you laid out which is you know past implementations that follow essentially the strict writing in 5440 to do ordering in terms of backwards compatibility the end result is essentially well tough luck you guys can't interrupt so that's that's that's difficult for me to digest um but at the same time i also don't have an alternative wordsmith i mean it's something that i'm gonna have to think about just you know how can we allow the future you know miss ordering while still allowing those past implementations to succeed um that i'm not quite sure yet so right now you know just to voice my opinion on it i'm concerned with with the backwards compatibility and the interop that we've been essentially hardening over the last couple of years that this now may lead to you know less interrupt even though the goal is obviously more in drop in the long run"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "so that's basically my concerns thanks thank you this is exactly the kind of feedback we are happy to hear because we aren't supposed to choose in a very short term at the end of the session obviously so we want to collect as much feedback as possible and make sure that we will do a clever decision in the end of the process this is just the first proposal so this is exactly the kind of comment that uh we're happy to hear so next one hey joe yeah i want to ask if the receiver can ignore the ordering of the object what is the usage for the sender for [Music] for sender to order in the objective understanding and i think it is important to define the rule for ordering so many type of objects even precept for example uh if i understand your comment i think this is the usual philosophy in standards that we have uh followed that while sending uh you use must but while receiving you you should so that we allow a little bit more liberal uh process so that like you know unnecessarily we don't cross error conditions so that is the history for this and this is quite common for instance if you look at rsvp which i think even adrian pointed out they do not have the strict ordering rule uh and they follow the same rb and f and similar objects than p sub and i'm looking at the time so julian just uh like you know yeah like the queue on oscar is next hi so just in the past few years we have suffered for several problems in the in the interrupts so i think that regardless that you allow"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:00",
    "text": "some flexibility in in some places i think that the grammar needs to be revisited i mean in a in a hole either you choose to be fully strict and then you put all the orders or the objects in a same place like we tried to do several years ago with the draft that at that point the working group didn't decide to go that direction or if you want to relax you need to say where to relax because in general if you suddenly say that a protocol that is designed to be in an order you suddenly say that it is not an order that does not work so even as you say in some places might fit but you would need a careful thinking of all the grammar as a whole okay so in any case you need to revisit all the grammar even if you take this direction or follow the complete strict order thank you thank you oscar boris yes hi druvius i support this approach i think this is the right way to to proceed only one command maybe it would be good to signal this relaxing capability as additional precept capability to uh to align with old implementations and new implementations tuition cover this is just a proposal yeah that's an interesting idea to to share thank you mike but uh being liberal you know in what you accept uh in terms of like uh ordering or whatever uh being liberal in what you accept is always a good thing so it's kind of uh it's assumed that you know implementations will follow it uh so i think uh you know i think it's a good idea uh we can maybe specify like ordering like a relative between say two objects that for example okay like path attribute object has to go right before the ero object right but in terms of like globally um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:02",
    "text": "having to you know have some kind of a global ordering i don't think that's necessary uh at all yeah thanks thanks thank you mike so thank you people for this interesting discussion we'll move to the next presentation and we'll resume the other one on the mailing list for sure so quan i think you're the presenter yeah okay thank you i would like to talk about the psap extensions for topology filter on behalf of the co-authors so let's slide please so let's first do the quick recap pcet constraint draft has been proposed and presented during uh last two years it proves set of constraints for the network information such as multiplication id slice id color and fvid and now it has been replaced into four drafts first we proposed a little draft to define the for passport computation it is the current presenting draft and the second we merged the kernel tree to the new kernel draft third the fa id merged into the seed algorithm and already drafted to define the slice id construct so let's slide please this draft is mainly about the property filter first the topology filter is defined in this young topology filter draft"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:01",
    "text": "and it has been it has been discussed in tuesday a topology filter is a data construct construct that can be applied on either a related topology or a user's specified topology and viewed as a set of filtering rules and each topology filter can be constructed by tribulative reference and or a set of include airing include or in the exclude filtering future the government proposes a set of extensions for psf to support the topology filter as their topology chemistries during their past computation last slide please so first we uh defined a lieutenant carrier topology filter and so the following trv can be carried in topological object to identify the topology reference reference the topology could be a specific igp domain which is which are which is identified by source protocol id and instance id multi topology id aerial id seed overreaction and please so there uh details the source uh protocol tres designed for a topology and identified folder space specific specific source protocol id the protocol id is defined in uh as uh is is uh and ospf and bgp ios multi-topology trv is worse for the topology id uh further topology"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:03",
    "text": "identified by the multi topology id and the aerial tre is also defined for topology identified by this specific area id last slide please we also defined the topology filter that also can be uh specified by a set of include i alien include war and exclude filtering filtering rules and it can be applied on the relative topology so this document also proposed a set of extensions for iro and xro object for example link id admin group and source protocol and so on some objects to achieve their influence include adding include and extra exclude filtering rules for the topology field last slide please so that's uh the water extensions for precept and any question and comments and discussions are very welcome thank you i see people yeah to be good uh the first question is i see you mentioned a new draft uh on an rpid okay hear me yes yeah yes yeah yeah i just checked this object that submitted this week which is related to slicing um before this meeting we have i submitted a draft on the psab extension"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:00",
    "text": "for witness which will be presented next uh perhaps suggestion is you can follow the discussion in the this working group about the relationship between this one words yeah this is okay you go first okay uh the second one is there's a topology filter your model but i see there's some difference between these two drafts in the content like the the t topology is not covering this one a division id is not covered i'm not sure whether you want to have the consistent definition of the topology filter okay thank you um for the first question is to your draft and the snipes id concentrate for uh extended further xp spa object we proposed it two years ago so as we all know there the thieves uh didn't reach agreement about their uh uh the term of their identifier of this network slice so uh [Music] you reached the final agreement for the identifier the time of the identifier folder slice so that works nice uh for the second question uh [Music] yes you're right the uh division id is is not included"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:03",
    "text": "for in the current version uh we will consider it last version under the topology tte topology we uh we we don't consider it uh because the uh it is not a a point a a pro point folder in my opinion thanks maybe one for the comment is uh uh maybe you need to consider the relationship under the about the topology filter in the young model and the body filter in this psap what is the procedure uh under the order of using this rule this mechanism to provision this information either from controller to the device or you want to send the request from the device to the controller what is the procedure in the order of this this this kind of thing i think this is not clear from the current trials let's move on uh uh robin uh quickly very quick comments uh my uh my two comments the first one i i thought about this the first page i think this is the one drop the way why is divided into the four drops maybe more drought will be proposed the first one the second one i think that's the constraint i think there's can be different considerate but i doubt if there's a requirement or not uh thanks robin"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:02",
    "text": "comment this we will follow uh whatever like the tease suggests we will be looking out to from the guidance from peace chair and peace working group on how to uh like you know how to process and anyway we are requesting the authors to keep alignment between the t's document and the and this document and there are some other comments which i will send it on the list but let's move on thank you can you hear me yes go ahead okay okay um so i'm um from china mobile so i'm going to present this support for btn pcp on behalf of uh all the authors um okay next please um so the vtn is a virtual underlay network consisting of a set of dedicated or shared network resources and is associated with customerized logical topology so it is introduced in the draft test enhanced vpn and can be used to enable enhanced vpns um for the network slice relay realization so when computing or establishing a parts in obedient pc needs to take a written specific resource and topology attributes into consideration and this document will describe the pcep extensions to carry waiting information in pcp messages for peace vtn specific past computational requests and response also report an update and pass initiation okay uh next please"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "also uh utility call htmtlv um is defined to carry the video id and related information in the lspa object the vpn id is a global significant 32-bit identifier to indicate that a vacant and the flags fields are a result of future use and some optionals like tlbs which can carry additional constraints upcp capability completing capability is introduced and we define one bit d bit in the flex field when it is step by pcc 2 1 and then it indicates that the pcc supports the encapsulation of the data plan between id in data packet and when it's set by 2 1 by pce it indicates that pc is supposed write provide pass communication without with the data plan within id okay the next piece also for the vdm trv it can be used in the basic pce plus computation it can be carried in a pc request a message to indicate that the vdn in which the price competition is requested and the pce or should use a network resource and the topology attributes associated with a specific radian as the parameters of the past computation and this trv may be carried in the pc reply message to indicate the pcc should use the vtn specific resources [Music] to constructing the te pass in the case of past competition failure"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:02",
    "text": "the pc reply message may carry the beijing tlv to indicate that the computation was not successful okay next please and this tlv can be used for pass report and update of the state for pce a pcc may include this medium tlv in pc report message to indicate that p median uh in which the t pass is reported and the pce may include the median tlv okay the trv can be used in pce initiated the lsp setup the pce may include the built-in tlv in the pce initial message and it will pcc will use of specific resource and data plan waiting id to construct the t pass and the mechanism is applicable to the initial of ampere's lsps and the isr policies candidate passes okay next so next we will welcome the comments and feedbacks uh we will polish this draft based on the feedbacks okay thank you thank you uh we already have eric in the queue thank you for the presentation as you know uh t's working group agreed on network resources to call the underlay resources associated with uh with a slice network resource partition and we can pass a nrp id in the psap message [Music] i'm not sure if you want to standardize to passing two ids a vtn id and an rpid"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:03",
    "text": "maybe authors of this draft should collaborate with uh with authors of the draft that quan had mentioned earlier i would like to hear the working group chair's opinion on that as well uh tariq are we sure that we have this resolved in teas already at least that's not my reading and i would welcome like these chairs to correct me if i'm saying that wrong otherwise we have jimmy jimmy good um just to answer your question um i did see then the term network resource partition in the slice definitions draft that adrian and editors are driving so um maybe we can but this is but this is coming from enhanced vpn right so and we thought that enhanced vpn has applicability outside of network slicing as well so my understanding was that these two like you know we cannot say that vtn id can disappear at least that's what i was reading so uh please correct me if i'm wrong yeah exactly that's the point is any protocol genetic protocol extensions uh has to reference the genetic term which is network resource partition otherwise we will end up duplicating protocol extensions and that was the whole point of coming up with a genetic term so indeed yeah so we're looking for teas uh like you know guidance on this uh jimmy you already said oh you are in the queue jimmy go ahead i just want to say that like we just ever have sent a mail to have some discussion about the relationship between the hsb and the network slides in this mini list i suggest people to provide their feedbacks and opinions to that based on that we can see whether they have the different scope or not uh canva can use converge to a like a generic term for"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:02",
    "text": "et cetera thank you thanks for collecting there bubban good yeah you had a question for the teachers so there was uh an open item after the last interim on uh or maybe even before that uh that there was a thread that adrian started i see him in the queue uh on what that what we need to call it uh underlay uh construct um and i think there are a few names that are floating around uh we let uh from the chest pointer we let the authors of the framework document pick what they thought was appropriate uh i see uh i mean the term that has been picked in the draft is a network resource partition as to whether uh there was a formal uh uh declaration of with that of that being the term i mean there is there hasn't been any declaration of that we will let the editor uh pick what he's deemed appropriate and i'll let the editor talk adrian yeah thanks so i'm editor for the tease framework uh pavan is right there there's no consensus being called on what the text in the framework says i believe that the intention is to provide a common base reference and definitions and allow other documents to either use that terminology or to say what we're doing in this document maps to the base terminology as follows i don't think we we are attempting to force people to rewrite their documents or or change their solutions merely to explain how their solutions map to the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:01",
    "text": "framework thanks adrian uh i think let's continue this discussion uh on the mailing list we will be looking for these feedback whether an rpid and vtn id are two different ids they are the same id they belong so that will like you know have impact on progressing these documents so thank you so kian you're next all right uh hi my name is dionne mishra i'm with verizon and i will be presenting an update on the psep ls rack next slide so over the last uh few months i believe since i ietf 110 we have gotten some feedback we presented at itf 110 so just some highlights um as far as feedback so some key scenarios um where where the piece of ls comes into play is pcc and hpc and we'll we'll go through that just to recap some in further slides so this is an experimental id with an aim to progress rnd efforts and it's not and so just to be clear for everyone in the working group that this is not a replacement for any existing mechanisms um there are specific stereo scenarios highlighted with with the reuse of the p-sub-session for where this information is deemed useful and and that particularly uh indicate in the use cases of pcecc what would be useful is to progress this draft is to find if there's interest in the experimental work and then pull the workload for adoption next slide so there's some feedback so we had some positive feedback on lists a few months ago uh so agent wang with china telecom showed some key"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:00",
    "text": "interest um he highlighted use a piece of ls and pcecc scenarios peter park with telco kt had also expressed interest as well as being young with your etri um so we would like to uh ask the worker for adoption on it as an experimental track and that that's really the goal of this draft um the scope and goal of the experiment would include testing the solution viability and to help eliminate any concerns and then post adoption what we would like to do is refine the scope of the experiments an expected outcome especially targeting scalability concerns and impacts and other protocols in the network um so with the post adoption as we go through that we just want to and and it's really in building the scope we want to actually have folks in the work group to you know have a comfort level with with this so we're not overloading the protocol we're not overloading with psap using pc uh for the uh piece for uh psf ls and leveraging the southbound interface so we and with that and that that really would be part of the development and the r d effort the overall effort um that we'd like to uh move forward with you know once we once a draft is adopted next slide sorry next next slide thanks i think the slides went away are you not lying it looks like trough was dropped can you hear us jeff no offline i can try to share myself if he if he's not let me see i haven't done it before"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:00",
    "text": "i can try and give it a shot you want me to try and go ahead and share or um try or julian if you have the slides i guess if you could share it i guess they're already uploaded so how can i sure share them oh just back oh yeah can you hear us rev oh i got disconnected so let me quickly come back am i on the right side uh one yes we're just one more down after that let's see yes right here okay thanks all right so a quick overall recap so update on the latest feedback with the pc working group um and work group production adoption call i've used so use of pset to learn network state and topology applicable to device to controller as well as controller controller hpc uh complementary extensions and this is really another tool in the operator's toolbox so we have existing mechanisms and this would just would this would be another mechanism so we're not replacing anything or changing we're just adding another another option uh for operators and and for particular use cases and the one main one in particular is uh operators that are already using pcecc and in those scenarios where they have the centralized controller um they could easily leverage uh pcf ls a new pcf object a message an object and resu reuse of the tlb is already defined uh default is local only and then which which which is the uh r equals r equals zero uh which is which is the goal that we would like to have the centralized to use psf ls"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:02",
    "text": "building the topology graph but we have the flexibility to use uh r equals one uh defining the draft that you can um have a hybrid setup and use other mechanisms as well as piece of ls so we'd like to make it you know homogeneous to other other mechanisms that exist and we're not forcing anything to go one way or the other we just kind of kind of want to we want to keep an open mind and and that is also the further work as we you know reach work of adoption consensus we can dig into that more in more detail next slide so uh some use cases and scenarios to recap so pccc uh some use cases require direct piece of session to all nodes reusing that same session to allow to learn network state is attractive so not using not having a second protocol such as a vgpls enabling the possibility of a single sbi for some for some use cases and then hpc an actn for for enter as um scenarios between controllers for boundary nodes and links as part of the abstraction domain topology and then partial so some information such as optical extensions learn to be a piece of ls for faster learning uh reuse of psep synchronization optimization techniques and incremental updates as well as other mechanisms can coexist next slide so um on the left here uh we've gone through this slide before you've been showing the basic mechanism so we're using the existing uh pce cc uh centralized control architecture so you have the pcc instructions um are sent down on the left to the to each node i'll you know for each uh reaching edge pc's pce session and then and then the uh the topology graph lincoln node information sent back up to the controller on the"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:42:01",
    "text": "left piece of ls and node information on the right on the right slide showing the uh hpc so everything so everything is supported as as exists with the hpce using psfls and in this case in in that scenario the child pce the uh pcf ls information noted for lincoln node information sent from the child pc node back up to the parent node next slide so uh ready for adoption so i we believe over the last several months since ietf 110 when we presented uh we feel that we have get you know garnish some interest in the working group um so so the answer that is yes we have and um are there target experiments demos implementations and the answer to that is yes as well so some were showcased in the past that had a hackathon in bits and bytes some open source implementations exist and documented some research has showed interest and experimented and some operators have shown inserts as we as we described in the earlier slides so so now the question is there a possibility of someone getting rough consensus to support and support for this as an experimental id uh so i believe at this point i think it's the answer is yes and we would like to i after you know after this it completes uh we would like to you know maybe pull the work group or in the chairs for um start a work group adoption thank you thanks john any questions again go ahead chiang i just want to say that i i really want uh i want to work on this work it's it's already a good work and we do really"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:44:00",
    "text": "need it because we have bgprs already and if you want to make the psap uh protocol or like perfect then we need to finish this work so that's it thanks thank you robin right there that's that's their scenario so there's another bdp linkage data so i think that the pc links they definitely have this the application scenario thank you robin thank you yeah we prefer the usage of the pc pc ls and the pdp so let me do that there is only one router can report the upload information to the pce i think this can certainly simplify the implementation of the controller under the router okay can you hear me yeah go ahead hello i am ali from china telecom we specify pc pcp extensions to optimize the employment implementation of multicast source registration or revocation receiver auto authentic discovery and forwarding control of multicast data by using pcp methods to trans transmits multicast management signaling in sdn scenario combining with the forwarding characteristic of of fear by using this mechanism the unified management of vr"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:46:00",
    "text": "multicast can be implemented and the impact of bgp updates on controller can be reduced next week thank you the pro the process consists of four main steps the first ingress and the pcp message with multicast source information to the controller for multicast source registration the second egress convert idmp or mld message receiving from receivers into pcp message to send on to the controller as pce for receivers running or leaving the third the controller send this screen that is stitched based on the source and and the receiver information informing the ingress how to forward or stop forwarding the force and the receiver statistics is regularly synchronized between egress and pce or between pce and ingress some comments were made as a pre previous meeting including the objects format here does it is tested to break these objects down more the objects are tightly coupled with sphere multicast information in pc message should be able to use the in number multicast scenario in this update the overall process process has not changed our main change from the previous version is to put some duplicates fills into t always increasing the instance instanceability of messages in addition the judgement flag for multicast is added carrying different tlvs"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:48:01",
    "text": "multicast information in piece of method message can also be used to number multicast scenario we defined for new tier with namely multicast source address address tlv multicast group address tlv next vpn information tre and vr information here wait vpn information here we can contains rd and the forwarding tag the label lens can be set to thereof your information until we continue to identify identification information in ear domain or sub sub domain specifically subdomain id pfrid and bsl sorry sorry and the multicast source registration object and multicast receiver information object add the peer flag indicating whether the message is here multicast these two objects can be used in both sphere and number scenario with any information tlv and the vrtov can be selected carried in this two method next page thank you next page thank you for watching object content sphere forwarding information specifically something id as i bsl and this screen file object that does not need to carry beer information tlv and can only be used in beer scenario next page thank you multicast receiver status object should should include only cancer source here we and multicast group address tlv"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:50:01",
    "text": "the use the usage is constant consistent in beer scenario and non-fear scenario that's the main content of this draft any comments on our work are welcome thank you uh thank you ronan any questions while we are waiting for questions this was presented in beer's working group as well and we had a discussion following that that how do we coordinate the work between pce and beer and one of the suggestion was that we need to get a very clear set of like requirements from the beer working group and overall architecture that we can check against right now in pce there are couple of documents related to beer and the overall requirements and architecture is not very clear even if we take this document for instance there is lot of beer and non-beer things inside the same document and which is kind of very confusing when we read so we need to look at this whole work holistically uh any other that's just my thoughts uh any other comments from the working group uh tony go ahead yeah so i think um as we talk in the beer working group drove um i think the best is to pull uh interim with the charcoal being pretty much uh a requirements document um from your site uh and from our site is beer and let's see what comes out of that so people are on the same page and we get all these documents on the same umbrella and we you know in sync architecturally speaking uh so i suggest to get together with greg and um you know set up something and start rolling you know an interim uh and work on kind of the charter of the interim or rather you know of working a work work items during the interim if you are okay"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:52:00",
    "text": "with that thanks tony let's continue discussing uh igen go ahead i think the people in the pure working group has signed some interested for the pc-based solution for the multicast single signalling so here the update for this job just want to make the make the object a general and possible and comment from last so i think we can discuss this later during the intermediate during the year and okay yeah uh arjun i agree the only comment mine was that the document is called pc-based beer then it should not have non-beer parts in it we need to have a clarity of what is uh applicable for any multicast overlay and we had rsvp we have sr p2mp policy as well so we don't want things which are generic to be a part of a beer extension to pc that was what i was trying to say okay again go ahead yeah george i was just gonna chime in on the same that i think this uh documented should probably should really focus on beer and not and not non-beer related as it does confuse the uh the goal of the uh since there's already i believe rc 6006 which talks about point-to-multi-point uh pce extension so there's already existing work that that deals with non non-viewer specific multicast so i agree this should be really just beer related uh thanks jan let's move ahead we have still have two presentations to go uh balaji are you here yes go ahead"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:54:03",
    "text": "uh biology the slides are already in front do you mind if we continue we don't we are running out of time so please go ahead and start speaking biology you need to click on the my my button to start speaking yeah go ahead now uh we lost biology yeah apology go ahead okay it seems like we're having audio issues so let's move on to the next one and we'll come back to biology once we have time so let's we have five minutes and two presentation thank you would you like to start and try to do it at two minutes so that we can give balaji time as well okay it's my turn yeah go ahead quickly okay thank you oh hi experts i'm you i'm from trinity telecom i'll introduce our draft and some essential updates uh considering the last gear development of ethernet interface it is possible to use the info container in the layer 2 frame to simplify the end-to-end packet forwarding procedure based on rfc 9050 which specifies the precept extensions for pcc to derive npr's label switch paths this document defines psup extension for vlan based traffic forwarding in native ip network compared with our rfc 8821 which describes an architecture for pc-based traffic for engineering in native app networks this draft describes the processes of data packet forwarding system based on vlan info okay next up is well as shown in this figure the procedures of for event based traffic forwarding are the follows"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:56:00",
    "text": "the first step the pc calculates the expedited seat wrote and sends the route information to the pcc's through pc initiate messages step two the ingress pcc like r3 forms of the land forwarding routing table the transit pcc like r1 r2 and r4 and the egress pcc like r5 forms a vlan crossing routing table step 3 the packet to be guaranteed matches the table and then be labeled with corresponding valentine as marked in the red line step 4 the label packet will be further sent to the pcc specific sub-interface identified by the tag and then be forwarded next time please well the data packet accomplish the calculation processes is shown in this figure when the original data pack was sent to the egress node it will look up the vfr table of r1 if matched the packet will be labeled with the corresponding vlan tab the labeled packet then will be sent to the transit node similarly it will look up the vcr table which only contains the in and out vlan and then be forwarded to the egress node the output the output end of vcr of vcr table is zero zero so the vlan will be unlabeled and returns to the normal forwarding the advantage of this mechanism contains three points the first one is it uses a completely new address space the second one it is suitable for ipv4 and fb6 networks and the last one is it can leverage the existing pc technologies as much as possible next episode uh based on the last version we made some updates on the cc object to"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:58:01",
    "text": "indicate the specific interface of each node and the new bit o to differentiate the in and out land next time please uh and these are the updates of the corresponding message content content okay next please okay that's the main content of our draft any other any comments are welcome thank you uh itunes go ahead quick comment please existing [Music] mirror field they will meet the ipv4 and the ipv6 environment and they are trying to align in the cpc solution for the llp password okay thanks agent uh balaji go ahead let's give it a shot we lost biology so maybe pawan can you uh present instead go right now yeah yeah uh can you go to the next slide yeah we did present um uh the psup rsvp color draft last time um the last ietf there were some comments uh primarily to make it a bit more generic so that's what we ended up doing can you go to the next slide um so yeah it's it's a single tlv uh it's generalized it's used for the use case that was uh described last time it continues to exist uh it just allows for it to be used for other use cases as well the couple of them that are listed here the pc multipath already references"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:00:01",
    "text": "it there was also this notion of using it the same way as the policy the the policy association it's a debatable use case but yeah i mean there was a proposal to do that we just left room in case somebody wants to use it for that purpose and uh yeah there are a few more authors added to the list um next slide yeah i think it's yeah it's a it's something that's missing in the toolkit um yeah we believe it's sufficiently big to progress to the next stage request working on production and uh further review from the working group thanks i could not find where this tlv is going to be carried which piece of object uh it's it's in the uh lsp a uh it depends it kind of depends on the use case so the in the case of mic strap the multipath draft it would sit under the path attribute so yeah i mean we define the tlv here yeah we'll let the use case describe where it actually sits but you do have that rsvp use case as well right so at least for rsvp use case you need to specify where is this tlp we do we do if you in the section that in the section that talks about rsvp use case i think it there should be a statement in there saying where it should where it says it doesn't it's in front of me i take your word so just take your word any other last comments from the working group otherwise we are one minute over uh i don't see anything so julian last words to you just to say goodbye thank you everyone for attending the very last last slot of atf112 and maybe we have a little chance to meet face to face next time but in any case we'll meet at least in virtual meetings so take care everyone talk to you soon"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "01:02:01",
    "text": "bye thanks for attending bye bye drive bye"
  }
]
