[
  {
    "startTime": "00:00:04",
    "text": "we take a totally new meaning because you have a strong Echo to what you're saying that's nice so like like you are preaching from a large Church good Reverb huh and it's part of that's this ring is just incredibly live but foreign people are joining we'll start in a couple of minutes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:02:01",
    "text": "and it looks like the join rate is starting to slow down a couple of people that I was expecting would be here that are not here yet I'm dragging my feet for just a moment more all right we'll go ahead and jump in um as usual for these calls remember that uh the session is being recorded and will be posted to YouTube if you are willing please share your video let's make this as much of a people around the room having a meeting around the table as we can make it hopefully people have had a chance to start through the notes on the link to the notes pages in The meaning materials at the data tracker I'm going to rearrange my windows here apologies for the short delay I think this will make for a better experience for people does anyone have any bashes to the agenda as listed on the notes page are there any topics that we need to add that are not already reflected there"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:04:01",
    "text": "all right so I've organized this as before NT topics that I think we'll need discussion and then things that are there mostly for reporting purposes the first topic I have for discussion is we are planning to shift DNS from being served from ams's infrastructure onto cloudflare mid to late January this will be a fairly disruptive transition to the technology that we're using um I suspect that it will mean an unpopular um set of steps that we go through with DNS sec in particular we will probably go for a day with our Zone not signed at all this is the recommendation that we've gotten from several community members It lines up with the recommendations at cloudflare but there are I know a lot of people that work inside the ietf on DNS SEC that will be very unhappy that we can go through a period where we aren't maintaining um a signature chain back to what we've had in the past I haven't picked a date for this I think a lot of that's going to depend on what we learn when we start into the first steps of setup um so I'd like to leave this right now with a probably third or fourth week in January time frame with a plan to send an announcement to the community if it turns up that it looks like we're going to do anything terribly disruptive or maybe the going sometime without DNS SEC is something we want to announce or maybe we don't want to announce it this is up for discussion anybody have any any"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:06:01",
    "text": "um thoughts on the matter I think everything sorry for the video once again mitiko doesn't want my video should be announced right because it's quite a big change even for one day and a second questions Robert does it mean that all the server the DNS servers mean the primary and the secondaries will be cloudflare properties I missed the last part of your sentence all the server based in the NS record right will only be cloudflare property in servers right we should have the ability to continue to use the people that are serving secondary for us set the documentation indicates should be supported we won't know for sure until we get in and attempt the configuration but it is currently our plan to continue to make to take advantage of the volunteer secondary server layer that we we have at the moment thank you important unless someone has other questions on this I'll move on so we have as you know contracted with serious open source to act as a set of virtual data database administrators for us with the um postgres database in particular but all the debate database engines that we're using between the last time we talked in this time we've asked Sirius to take a more Hands-On approach on actually giving them access to the machines directly asking"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:08:00",
    "text": "them to configure um the the postgres engine uh directly and set up a different and more comprehensive backup and and high availability strategy this is being prototyped on the sandbox right now we expect that we'll have it deployed on ietfa um before the month is over um certainly in the first part of January it's hindered a little bit by the choices that open Susie has made for packaging for um 15 3 and 15 4 which we'll talk about the upgrades to that next there are a lot of utilities that we need to be able to use like PG loader that are not packaged and don't install well from the the experimental packages that are available at opencz we're going to work around it for the short term with uh Docker for PG loader and we're just falling back to a closer to the base package set of tools for [Music] um setting up our incremental backup strategy when we go through our it infrastructure revision process we'll move on to Services where we can move to Stronger tools like PG backrest and Sirius is doing the preparation work to make those moves when we have the resources available to make them so the big takeaway here is that we've got more people and more contracted people"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:10:00",
    "text": "working directly with what had to date been something that only Glenn would do the number of people with root on the ietfa server in particular is different than what it was a month ago anybody have any questions Michael thanks for joining us and sharing video glad to see you all right the next thing that I wanted to walk through was uh our plan for upgrading the ietf servers um Point version for the operating systems they're currently running open Susie which we mentioned before uh much of um what AMS supports is already on 15-4 the non-production servers for the ITF like the sandbox are already on 15-4 are hot standbys have been moved to 15-4 we haven't seen any um any issues but we're going to wait until after the break to move the Production Services to 15 4 so that we have all of the resources for um addressing any issues that might crop up with the applications available so our plan is to upgrade ietf a where most of the services running in ietfx were the remainder of the services that that are visible to most of the community like zulup in notes.itf.org the wikis are running during the first week of January and are a CPA during the third week if I remember correctly again because of resources at the RPC team"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:12:01",
    "text": "be on hand should applications need touching we're not expecting they would be these upgrades are done on a live running server the server doesn't have to be bounced in order to make the point upgrade any individual service would only be down long enough to make the the um basically the service start cut over which for most of these Services is in a single digit number of seconds so my next topic for discussion and I'm getting less discussion than I expected um is scheduling for taking the data tracker offline to change its back-end database to postgres instead of MySQL our transition strategy at least in our development environments has been stable now for almost a month um it's been thoroughly tested we've gotten very high confidence that we're going to run on postgres um at just fine and out of the box it will be um quite a bit more performant than what we're getting on top of my Sequel and then we're going to get tuning by the series open source people that will move our performance up even even more than that as I've mentioned before this is going to require a downtime that's going to be measured in tens of minutes I'm estimating somewhere between 15 and 30."
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:14:00",
    "text": "um I think 30 is going to be on the long side what we'll be doing during this time MySQL and postgres will both be stopped we'll be taking a snapshot of the mySQL database then running the migrations to move the data into my SQL into postgres recondition it um and then start the service on top of my postgres some talk post-grad School um we are as I mentioned earlier still working through getting some of the utilities that we need onto the production environment in order to make this transition PG loader being the biggest hopefully by the end of this week we'll have a worked example of making the database transition on the sandbox using Docker a dockerized PG loader I'm expecting that to work assuming it does then I'm suggesting that we schedule this downtime for the 26th of January in the afternoon in the U.S and that is hey uh Thursday so this would be in the quiet after an iesg telechat I'm just watching the data tracker logs for the last several months this seems to be a seems to have been a good place to deploy good time of day to deploy new revisions of the data tracker and I think it's probably one of the least disruptive weekday times to have this kind of an outage did you check whether there is any interim at that point of time no we looked and air is not there are interim this morning right it's one of the reasons about afternoon U.S um tends to not accrue in"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:16:02",
    "text": "rooms because of the overlap with European Time thank you host an interim for the tools team during the planned outage and just make it clear it's an outage so anyone looking at upcoming things do not plan conflicts could notice that I will oh yeah it's a good idea oh I there there's some details around that to make it where it's very clear that it's not that it says something other than just tools um but we'll we'll definitely send a note to ITF announce as well um once I'm confident of a little more confident of the date than I am right now we'll give we'll give people it you know weeks of notice before we get to this I'm not hearing though anybody running to the mic saying oh no no that date's terrible please don't do that to me so I'm going to take that as a working plan and we'll refine it as we get more information all right moving to the next topic during ietf 115 we had several people suggest that the pop-ups that people had to click through in order to get into the mediko session to get to the note session when using data tracker credentials to provide consent were disruptive and unnecessary and after discussion with leadership we believe that's true we're moving to a model where um if the service is at an ietf.org"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:18:02",
    "text": "domain we assume that you've provided consent to use everything that the data tracker knows about you when you're using that your tracker credentials when you're using those services if we have a service that's not in an ietf domain we'll still provide the consent pop-up so people have an objectives they not send their email address off together town if we ever try to integrate together town with the data tracker again just as an example um the fun properties that we have in this mix are medaco we already have Medico set up to use medaco.ietf.org um implementation detail this is just C names to the hostnames at mediko.com that were already being used um as people are going through this they'll ultimately end up on a mediaco.com domain with that particular implementation detail at the very end I believe the browser will show me to co.com after the uh oidc dance is over um but we have turned off the um oidc consent click through for me to go already Yang catalog is not an ietf.org domain um even though it's an itf.org activity at the moment I've left it configured to require consent now the only place that oidc has used at Yin catalog is for people that are logging into the administration console so it's a very small number of people you know folks like me and Eric and the contractors that are working on the project that would ever encounter this at all so it's not a"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:20:01",
    "text": "something that affects the the community at Large thoughts requests for change it's fine for me all right so very very quickly I'm going to step up the pace now we're 20 minutes into the call um going through the fyis um if there are things in the FYI is that people have added detail to that they want to call out on a call feel free to jump in and do so but at a high level we're on track for issuing an RFI about the infrastructure strategy early next year we held our tools Workshop there are links to the notes that are being constructed about the tools workshop for publishing documents on the internet there's a very likely conversation I recommend that if you didn't participate that you either go watch the Youtube recording or or start reading through the notes we've been working on the infrastructure of how imapd makes use of the data tracker's credentials we made a big change around what version of python it was based on we're going to be making another big change scene on uh shifting it to use an API instead of trying to um reuse the data tracker code base and underlying database directly that was just a little bit too much code coupling that was causing it and it continues to cause us grief so we're going to separate those a little bit more strongly we began redirecting ID Nets and RFC diff into authort tools last week entirely removing the www.itf.org hosted instances of"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:22:00",
    "text": "rfcdef and ID Nets we got a little bit of pushback on RSC diff because ID Nets has um a different dipping strategy in some cases and and some folks working on some large RCS found that disruptive so um casara jumped in and and made it so that you could as an option get the RFC death output until we get ID diff to the point that it can replace RSC Dev completely um Nick you Nick provided content I think an excellent yes he's here um for the wiki GS deployment and our changes to um are CI CD tooling for the data tracker and soon the website itself Nick is there anything that you wanted to add other than what's typed in here anybody has any questions Greg do you have anything that you want to add about um what we're doing for the track Wiki migration to Wiki Js just to come back on the Nick's works on the droplets in detail of the ocean is it easier to do this over a digital Ocean or is it better to do it in a Docker locally on our laptop or is it am I missing something so when you're doing just development in general you want to run the instance on on your laptop what is at the digital ocean droplet is what's ultimately going to replace sandbox.ietf.org got it thank you"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:24:01",
    "text": "so you can share the instance with other people right yes okay thank you So like um Lars did that stuff with the new htmlisation would have been a good example of something that he was running on his laptop but he very quickly shouldn't have been right and we're set up now to wear any branch like that we can just deploy into that droplet through CI CD punch of a button right all right Greg coming back to you I know I think you had a question for the group about um are you still here Greg I saw you briefly at the beginning of the call looks like we may have lost him you know he can follow up by email anybody have any questions about where we are with the wiki JS transition the content moving the the things that are in track into Wiki Js not hearing anything I'll let you read about what's happening with the data tracker um the velocity has been incredibly High lots of big changes coming in frequently we successfully deployed time zone aware we are well on the way to successfully moving to postgres and I've got listed here the next big things that we're expecting to see if at any time somebody knows of something that's coming along that we should be working on instead of these things please let us know so that we get the items slotted in in the right priority order"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:26:04",
    "text": "because um so my comment is about the Yang catalog um I don't I don't know quite where Yang catalog begins and Chiang or ends and b n begins on whether or not this project has management by the tools team includes paying or not or since I'm asking a political level question yourself is an open source tool that we use we do not maintain it I just haven't had contractors working on it at one point no I don't believe that the contractors have ever gone into peeing itself right the thing Michael the contractor pushed some PR to the piano that was accepted by the pyang maintainer which is an IDF guy right yeah that's that's it okay I'm just trying to understand um what parts um you know where where we can ask for contractor help and where we have to yeah write our own PRS on pyang I think you are left alone right except if it's impacting maybe yeah catalog well um but so in this case it's impacting uh you know Ayana operations uh to do certain things so um that's where I don't know the that's where I'm wondering about the uh the boundary is there an issue that's been raised at being that you can point to that would uh yeah I I could do that um and it's also tied up with the progress of a draft um which is supposed to be get out of uh"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:28:03",
    "text": "Rob and Eric's world in the next days or so um but I'm just trying to ask for I'm trying to understand the the interaction at the technical level here the political who can do what and I'm just hearing I'm hearing that I should go debug the problem myself um that that's fine except now if the problem is anything related to the yankatalog.org itself right but then right yeah if there's an issue with the third party tours like piano or netcon for whatever right a completely yeah then it's only a Goodwill from other contractor right okay so it will affect the end catalog because it's supposed to somehow uh present and display the Sid data and we've discussed that um but I'm just unclear what the who who is who's going to be responsible um for that so Michael could keep it um the model I think an analogy an analogy that might help keep this straight is consider it to be in the same place that live XML is I don't think that helps me but I'll take your point because I don't know what that is and I've never used it and so I don't know but I understand what you're what you're saying yeah it's something that um XML to RSV for example fundamentally relies on but we don't maintain it it's the thing that it uses to to manipulate the XML that's coming in hey sorry do you have anything you wanted to to add to what's in the notes"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:30:01",
    "text": "about bibex and Miller author tools um I would like to ask a question about some of the the open issues I see that there are dependencies on either data tracker or relaton and those seem to have been closed they are closed but um there's I'm not seeing a whole lot of motion on the the original issues that were opened by end users for instance issue 280. um there there were things that needed to be fixed in data tracker and they're fixed but I I don't know or go back to my service which which is 280 bib XML service okay um if you've got any that look like they need to that look like they're not moving for lack of attention just add nudge as a comment in into the issue so we'll do all right kasar how about the website or xmlrsc or if anybody has any questions on those things I don't have anything else to add to what's in the notes so um"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:32:00",
    "text": "okay for what it's work is our audio was very very faint when we were able to understand you but it's not doing what you expected Ryan mail archive do we have Ryan yes he's here I have nothing to add to what's there that's our little throw on that we are Jay moving to um replace the uh um Standalone set of reports that would capture things like number of subscribers to lists through these apis that that progress is being made on that front Eric what about Yen catalog anything else to discuss there nothing to add I guess at some point of time we need to discuss the statement of work for next year no do you have a uh proposal started yet not yet to be honest I would suggest that we kind of scale down they make a huge amount of change this time not always visible but more about the stability and also some more change so the widget should be lower now there is inflation in Europe and blah blah blah blah right but um for the price but the amount of work should be lower all right so we should get the ball doing this Robert is it you Jay or myself or no I would suggest that the best thing that we could get is a summary of what we want what the statement of work"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:34:00",
    "text": "would be for for the next year you know what new new things we want okay what the operational um expectations are and that um Jane I could pick it up with that in hand okay I will try to do it before the Christmas shutdown awesome all right I think we can take the rest of what is in here as red we're a little bit over 30 minutes in and give back a half an hour of your day unless somebody has um something else that they'd like to dive into or to return to an earlier topic is the second week of January um I suspect it will be uh a fairly quick call then as well because of the end of year break in between this call and that one um if the format's still working well for everyone we'll continue using the format that we use today other net for any of you that I don't see before next year I hope that your end of year activities are are um very pleasurable and I thank you very much for spending your time um Robert can can I have to explain this meeting um so Michael already started alluding to this but I think it's an interesting question that definitely I don't want answered today but I just want to bring up so if if there is something like a live XML issue"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:36:02",
    "text": "or a peeing issue that actually is slowing us down in in some form of tool support and we we don't have a natural candidate among the the volunteers who can fix that do we have a plan for for how to handle things like that this is working plan at the moment is we would either um work with somebody that we have on staffer through our our set of contractors to at least get some guidance to the community that is around that tool on wrestling under the ground on how to fix it um worked examples of things that we've done in the data tracker when infrastructure components have had issues that were Show Stoppers for us that the project we were relying on we're not going to dress quickly or is to develop a framework to where we could patch those tools yes as they were installed so at a very very high level this is the the kind of approach that we have taken yeah but some some somebody else to to actually find people who can do this and uh make sure that that they actually are compensated for doing that um and and so on and so on and I'm not sure right now we have a way of doing that I mean this definitely should not be another way of of uh getting tools apart but um if there are circumstances that make it hard for the volunteers to actually uh do that kind of uh work then"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:38:01",
    "text": "it would be good to know we do have a full day certainly have a place if the community as a whole is being affected to escalate and point out that there is an issue and that we can then work on addressing it Jay you were starting to jump in yeah I'm just going to jump in and say I mean we one of the um the things about having um Nick and casara on board is that they're pretty much willing to try anything so you know we do have a backup plan there of people who are willing to try anything and um where we've asked them to do that so far that's been remarkably successful so we have that as a possibility um we also have access to um there are plenty of mechanisms to have access to specialist contract programmers who do small amounts of things for us um so I'm not worried that we will struggle to um get the resources for a an urgent short-term fix I think our issue about resources is more about longer term developmental things where we want somebody that's around for a long time that learns it is able to build it you know design and see the overall strategy about how things fit together and that's something that you know hopefully we are working on but still more slowly thank you so that's what actually I wanted to say is that I think that um in this case with pyang um there's some uh what I perceive as um architectural issues possibly across the whole um um the whole piece of software that are revealing themselves as we try to do some things at the edge and so I'm reluctant to um I'm reluctant to do what I would probably would be a hot patch for me um but then we'll be probably be create a lot of technical debt that I don't I"
  },
  {
    "startTime": "00:40:01",
    "text": "probably won't even be aware of um and that's why I think I I suspect that the problem I'm running into is a larger architectural issue and that I would prefer that the that the changes wound up with some the with someone with a longer view to what's going on and so that's why I'm I'm a bit that's where my concern came from right okay that's kind of also going to do what I was asking um yeah we can we certainly should discuss what we actually want to be done first before we engage in the issue I brought up yep okay thank you I think my question has been answered thank you Carson uh unless anybody has anything else enjoy the end of the year and we'll talk with you as things go along"
  }
]
